tbmm-2014-09-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 139th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit01spe0002par0009	Can you give me five minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit01spe0001par0010	I'm taking a five-minute break on request.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 139th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0002par0002	Mr. President, I withdraw the EC PARTY group proposal.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0001par0003	Okay. The Justice and Development Party proposal for the group has been withdrawn. The advisory board has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed. At a meeting Wednesday (October 10/9/2014), the Council of Counsellors approved the proposal to release the talks of Law Proposal No. 641 after 1 October 2014 to the General Assembly's approval. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party The group is acting president of the Vice President Group Y. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party The group is Deputy President Y. The group is Deputy President Y. Those who have accepted the recommendation of the Council... those who have refused... the motion has been accepted. We move on to the extraordinary call-in motion to discuss the bill and proposals of the law, to the part of the law bill and proposals and other tasks from the Commission. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Government of the Intergovernmental Agreement on Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline B. V. We will resume our talks between the Trans-Anadolu Natural Gas Pipeline System, where we left off from the meeting of the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, where there is a proper confirmation of the Change to the Homeowner Government Agreement. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the last merger, the entire bill was completed on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Sinan Okan is an Iğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0003par0035	Mr. President, I have been promised by the Nationalist Action Party Group to ratify the Homeowner Government Agreement on the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline System between the Government of the Republic of Turkey, 642 rows and the Government of Azerbaijan Republic. I salute you all. Of course, we believe that such important agreements -- especially Turkish republics -- are beneficial to our country, based on the fact that this agreement is a beneficial agreement between Turkey and Azerbaijan -- for the benefit of Turkey, for the benefit of Turkey, for the benefit of Turkey, for the sake of Turkey, for the sake of Turkey, and for the sake of this agreement, I would like to say that we would support it as a black spot on the history of the Turkish world, as well as against the recent positive relations between Turkey and Azerbaijan -- in the coming year 2015, it would also require that a team of Armenians and Azerbaijans be brought to the same thing as a friend. Turkey and Azerbaijan realize that, as with the TANAP project that we're meeting today in the field of energy, there should be a common struggle in other areas, together, the benefit of moving from a common point, and this attack on our common history. But with that, dear friends, I need to stress a sad issue here: You know, a ritual was recently held with the great participation of participants from Armenia in Van Akdamar. You know, during the AKP, this ritual was legalized. There are thousands of Muslims living in Armenia at the beginning of the century, while thousands of mosques are being recited, while prayers are being performed, there is one mosque in the city of Erivan today called the Sky Mosque, and there is a mosque in which there is a serious need for renovation and a mosque that needs Friday prayer. Mr. Group Deputy President Yusuf Halaçoglu, who had previously stated to Akdamar....that he had not opened a monument of chastity to Van....and that you had repaired the churches and put the church's bell on....the offer was still in the air. You planted a bell, but you didn't plant a monument to chastity. On the other hand, there may not be any response to the large-accessioned rituals of Armenia, but since Turkey and Armenia are so tolerant, since the Armenians come here, they perform mass in the church, you know we have -- in many cities in Turkey -- but there is an association in Iğdir, called the Anti-Armenian Association of Anti-Armenal Accusations. In recent days, he has applied to Armenia's authorities, saying: "We want to go to the Sky Mosque in Armenia and perform Friday prayer. What could be more natural? You've fixed the church, you've put a bell on the church, the Armenians are coming to mass, so to the end of tolerance, it's pretty good. Well, in exchange for that, shouldn't you go to a mosque there and support our citizens and our Muslim brothers who want to pray Friday? This is a Commandment for you, and a Commandment for you, that ye should submit (unto Allah). But there, those brothers who wanted to pray Friday in Armenia did not receive the proper permission from Armenia. Wait a minute, brother, you can't just stand there and pray Friday at the Sky Mosque in Armenia. Is there not a single bondman from your government who can say a word of this? You provide all the security of Armenians you have opened, church-building, church-ringing, church-ringing, ritual-making, all the comforts of them, you bring them, you perform services in Turkey, and you continue to perform services in Turkey, it seems. So, in return, my Muslim brother here wants to go to Armenia and pray a Friday prayer, without causing any excess -- simple, for years now -- from that minaret, from that mosque -- and why don't you help him? Why don't you contact the Armenian authorities for this? That's why you started football diplomacy, when the former President's wife prepared a stuffed bag for the President of Armenia. Well, if you'd be so kind as to say, "Ya, our Muslim brothers here also want to perform a Friday prayer there." We've provided you with all kinds of opportunities here, we've repaired your church, we've secured your safety, we've put on the church bell, we've given you the time of day. E, we are Muslims, and we want to perform Friday prayer, O Armenia, O Sarkisyan! Why don't you say: "O Sarkisyan! O Sarkisyan!," where our Muslim brothers want to perform a Friday prayer, why don't you say so? Our Foreign Affairs Commission is here, so let's have an answer. I'm waiting for an answer from the Foreign Affairs Commission, which I'm also a member of. Why don't you meet the request of our friends to perform Friday prayer? Why don't you support the request of our Muslim brothers from Iğdır to perform Friday prayer in Armenia's Sky Mosque? Is it because he's Muslim or because he wants to perform Friday prayer? Otherwise, if they go, if they open a church, you're there for them, but we see that a Muslim brother of ours wants to go there and pray on Friday, and you don't support it. So I ask you, do you see a problem with that? Why don't you help a Muslim brother of ours go and pray Friday at Erivan, at the Sky Mosque? You're no backup, you're no support, you're no opportunity. That's one of the duties of government and responsibility. You need to make it possible for our people to live their beliefs. I think you've got this a little bit wrong. You've given away every other minority's rights... $2.5 billion of this country's money to minority foundations so far, and you've given away property in exchange for it. Have you been able to repair one of the thousands of mosques in Armenia, have you been able to repair one? Come, for the sake of God's sake, one mosque in Armenia, all political parties -- let's not raise a dollar from the purse of the state -- let's raise money among ourselves here, let's go, let's get it done. In fact, come on in, ASIMDER is calling you as well. Help us get permission from Armenia. Let's go together, Armenia. I mean, isn't it attractive for you guys to say Friday prayer at the Sky Mosque in Armenia? Come, support me -- it's my calling -- come, ask for a favour between you and Sarkisyan, it's a very human request, and they'll allow it. Let's all go together, maybe not all of you, but send a friend of yours with representation, come on, let's go. Let's not go with the cameras to pray Friday, but at Armenia, let's go together, let's perform our worship there. For that, we expect you to be very clear and clear. If you have opened a church here from Armenia, let there be a voice of persecution in the sky, which has remained strange and longed for the voice of persecution, and is longing for Friday prayer, and let there be a prayer, and let there be a remembrance. I make it clear and clear that I expect you here, in front of all the public, from your power and power of the AKP. It's not just me, it's the sincere wish of all our citizens in the region, our Muslim citizens, especially our ASIMDER association in Iğdır. Come, fulfill the need to be a state, and we don't want the same opportunity that you have for the services of churches here, so that we may be able to do one part of it, one thousandth of it, and go there. Of course, dear friends, I'd like to express that I'm going to be a follower here. Now, unfortunately, I believe Congress is going on vacation today. In the days of the assembly, we warned you about our diplomats from this platform, you didn't listen, and now our diplomats are still in the hands of ISIS. I don't know how much information you have on him in your government, but I'd like to share with you what I know. Every day, every hour, every minute, the war is heating up, and our diplomats' lives are taking more and more risks every day. The United States will now form an alliance, inviting Turkey into it, and it is said that it will soon launch some bombings there with fighter planes that will depart from İncirlik. The risk of our diplomats' lives is increasing day by day. You've brought a ban on Turkey, not a line on our diplomats, not a word, TV sources don't show a single frame. So, what are you doing with the lives of 45 of our diplomats out there right now? If you're not saying it on the TV screen, let's at least have a closed session in the House and talk about the status of our diplomats. Those citizens are citizens of all of us, brothers and sisters of all of us, and they are human beings. There are some very serious allegations about him, but we've stopped talking so far, and we're going to keep quiet in part because we don't want to see our diplomats die, and I'm sure you don't, and I'm sure no one in Turkey would want to say, "I'm human." But there's a claim that our consul has been deposed, and beyond the argument, I'd say he's got information. I have information from Mr. Davutoglu, who is Prime Minister today, that you removed our consul from office with a date three days prior to the raid. Now, you delivered the man into the hands of ISIS and removed him from the post. Well, then it turns out there were some hijackers or something, so I'm not gonna go into details about them. It's called 49 of our citizens, and we know that 45 of our diplomats are now in the hands of ISIS when you leave our local citizens. There is strong evidence that some of them are in Syrian territory and that your government has lost track of our diplomats. Some of our diplomats have shielded ISIS leaders, some of them are Mosul Airport, especially Mosul Airport, which you know is a place where there are important radar stations, where there are operations everywhere so far, there are no operations there. We have information about him and that our diplomats are being used as human shields. Friends, our diplomats' lives are at greater risk every minute. We need to deal with this in a more political way, save the lives of our diplomats. However, it is your government's duty to remove at least some of the concern we have. You're putting parliament on vacation today, which means you won't be sharing any information with the public until October 14th about our diplomats. Although you haven't shared much so far, but at least the House was open, and the opposition from the House was carrying out the duty of warning. If he hadn't made fun of us that day, some of our friends would have been at the site of our consulate six minutes later when we shared the information from here, from the council, from the House, from the nation's Assembly, and from you, 16 hours ago. If a helicopter were to leave here, it would be able to land in the area of our helicopter consulate in 45 minutes and come back with our consulate officials. You say there's no leaf in the area without your knowledge, but there's no way of knowing why you left our diplomats there when 500,000 people fled the area. The governor of the region is on the run, he's on the run, calling our diplomats, saying: "Look, I'm the governor of this district. If you have a mind, don't stand here. Our diplomats there say we can't leave because we haven't received such instruction from Ankara. And then you get up and you say, "I swear, it was their decision, they were going to decide." Would that be a state? Then why were you Secretary of State -- now that you're Prime Minister -- if that's the decision? Therefore, you handed over our diplomats to ISIS in plain sight. So far it's all clear, but then it's a little dark, so there's no telling what ISIS will do there. We are in a process where ISIS will become even tighter every day, and the operation of the American and Western coalition will now target ISIS's leadership. A process in which the leading staff of ISIS will be targeted is also a process in which our diplomats, who have been given a live shield, will be targeted; in whatever way necessary, we must rescue our diplomats with an operation. Now, those of you who know a little bit about these things know that the primary goal is not to lose a diplomat or a hostage to a terrorist organization, but you failed, you lost, and within the first 48 hours our diplomats could have been saved, but you didn't do that either. Something could've been done in the first week, and you didn't do it. At that time, you had a number of dialogues with the top leadership of ISIS, but there is a rapid fluidity; the leadership of ISIS has also changed, and people you do not know are there in ISIS. Your attempts on the Sunni tribes have remained in the air, and your attempts on the remains of Saddam have remained in the air, and we are faced with a different environment, a different ISIS threat. There's no need to tell what ISIS is. ISIS, for Europe, a number of radical elements that were a threat to Russia, to the United States, was pulled into the region with an American project, where, like, magnets were created, where the radical elements of the world were brought to victory -- which is part of this work -- and all the radical elements in the world were gathered there, and now they've come to the point where the West would be completely destroyed, and the West would be rid of all the radical elements in its hands. This was the Western project, and you were part of it. So far you've allowed transitions through Turkey, it's all understood -- as well as the issues that need to be discussed -- but it's our direct concern at the point of destruction, as well as the destruction of the members of ISIS, that our diplomats face the threat and danger of destruction. Anyone who has a conscience, who calls himself a human being, who calls himself a government official, must place his hand on his conscience and do something about it. The new government has been established, and the new government has not received a single minister from the Iraqi Turkmen Front. We knew you had nothing to worry about like the Turkmen there, but in the interest of our state, you had to have at least one Turkish minister to take the new government, but he says it's obvious that you don't have the power and you don't have the intention.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0004par0050	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0052	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you all. Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, there is an Agreement on Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline and the Co-op Homeowner Government Agreement as an intergovernmental agreement. Now, I know you're tired in the House, and I know you want us to go whether we actually talk or not, but did the MPs actually read this? I'm going to invite him to a serious one. Who are international contracts made between, friends? It's made between states. The law of the states determines the duties, debts and obligations of the contract. If you're contracting as a state, these contracts should either be universal contracts with the United Nations or regional contracts with the Council of Europe. If you're contracting between a country and a company, it's not an international contract. I suggest all the friends read the back page of this contract. You're about to raise your hand. Notice, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Minister of Taner Yıldız, Energy and Natural Resources is signed. What about across from him? On behalf of TANAP Natural Gas Transfer Company, Saltuk Düzyol, General Manager. For God's sake, is this an international contract? Look, look, one minute, one minute, guys, you don't sign with your company, you don't sign with your company, we're talking about intergovernmental signatures, contracts, we're not starting a chestnut company. Look, let me be clear, I'm talking about a contract signed between a private commercial company and the government. Under him is the President of the State Oil Company of the Republic of Azerbaijan. There's the company president, friends, the company president, not the minister. I'm warning you, for God's sake, do you have to accept everything blindly? Since when did contracts with corporate presidents become international? Isn't there anything serious about this? Isn't there an international law dimension? Now I'm going to tell you something even more interesting, and I'm going to tell you what's going to happen here. I'll tell you what this will do. I'll tell you how he connected Turkey, what he connected it with. Of course Azerbaijan is a country. If it's a country, the country needs to give its natural gas a little cheaper, right? But he won't. We get cheaper than Russia, Iran, Kurds, don't we, Minister? Then can you explain the numbers?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0006par0059	It's a trade secret.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0060	I'm going to ask Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran and Kerkuk and Kurds to announce the price of oil you bought, Mr. Secretary, their price one by one, and how many years of these contracts were made; that's one. Why am I saying this? So it's good to be a friend, it's better to do business together, but it's much better if we all win together, but we see that balance isn't. I'm going to ask the Minister for an explanation again because it rained this morning, my friends. It rained, you know? What does it mean when it rains? A rise in natural gas, my friends, means winter is coming. Now there's a rise in natural gas. It's on automatic, though.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0007par0062	I won't do it. He said!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0063	In the history of the Republic of Turkey -- look, look -- the only government that sells natural gas on a ration card is the AK PARTY government, my friends. Mr. Secretary, if I'm not telling the truth, if I'm telling the wrong thing, please fix it from here. With 200 cubic metres of natural gas, the natural gas unit in September, the quota, the report card, is 80 lira. Is there a space on this? Now...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0008par0064	Summers, summers.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0065	Look, no, look. Now, it was 80 lira in September, 140 lira in June.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0008par0067	In the summer.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0068	Wait, I'll tell you now. When we enter the winter, this will go up to $640. Watch out, 200 cubic meters. The report card, which will go up to $640 per cubic meter, I call it a report card. You're rationing natural gas. In 200 cubic meters, on the 20th day, you ran out of natural gas, you put on the card, you take it off -- then you get cold. When you burn a little too much, you guys get cold; in Ankara, you get cold in the capital because you can't get any more, it's rationed. Now, I wonder how much more this natural gas will see in this period? Is this report card going to continue, the gas-related incident, the raise? I expect the Minister to make a statement for next term. Or should we live by the report card? I mean, how many days a week should we take a shower? You're burning the water heater, you're lighting the gas. I mean, pot food, which one, how many-- I mean, people, housewives, everybody's gonna be careful, and they're gonna burn it accordingly. There's some food that cooks in four hours. With this quota, if this gas cooks beans in four hours, my brother, if he can't cook, you'll find that beans cost more than ribs. It reflects on every aspect of life, that's what I mean. It's a social dimension, but I'll get to the white dimension. Now, you guys know what the trick is in this contract? This contract is also signed in 2012, the intergovernmental agreement, which is called the IGA; it's written here, of course, shortened. There is also a company founded in Holland. Azerbaijan is awake, be careful, the Azerbaijans are awake from ours. When Azerbaijan was in business with BOTACHAN, he hired British lawyers in Azerbaijan as legal advisors; he did not hire a lawyer from Turkey; British legal advisors had long served as legal advisers for BOTASH. Now, because the Azerbaijans know this account well, they have established a company in their government, Holland. The company they built in Holland... be careful, they built a company in Holland, the company is in Holland. Holland is a member of the European Union. Azerbaijan and Turkey are both members of the Council of Europe, not members of the Union. So, this company, founded in the Netherlands, means that I am bound by the European Union -- Luxembourg -- the Law of Justice. If I get hurt, my company center is here, and I burned your apprentice, not with natural gas, but with a match. Why? There are codes to this deal, folks. The VAT is being removed; government security is being brought in; construction of roads brings in some advantages to building pipelines. Who's it addressed to? To companies and subcontractors that will take part in this TANAP. Like what? (Look out, where's he going?) He's leaving because we're talking about a job to do in Turkey. Again, some goods have a financial and support decision to support the use of loans and the Council of Ministers. Oh, the incentive employer, his employment is good, but God knows, I wonder if a HDP businessman would come to support you. Come on, you're not good with the CHP, you're not good with the MHP. Can a company, a businessman, get a guarantee from the Council of Ministers, a support fund?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0009par0071	He'll get it, he'll get it right away.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0010par0072	You take it, you buy it, you're partners, you work together.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0073	They've put all our businessmen on the list of terrorist organizations, Mr. Sinan Okan. You just talked nonsense, with a mosque, with a mosque... a passport, diplomatic, go pray all you want.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0010par0074	You're partners with a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0075	I mean, it's not that simple, you're gonna get to the bottom of it. Let it go, while we're working on that identity... there's no limit between us and Azerbaijan and Turkey. Azerbaijan is the country in which we agree to a single language among the Turkish republics. When the heads of state of nine Turkish republics came together, those nine heads of state spoke Russian among themselves -- Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Mongolia -- because they couldn't speak Turkish -- we also speak common language, formal language, and they spoke Russian among themselves. There are diplomats here, so if I'm not telling the truth, you can confirm it. Wasn't it noon, fellas? I mean, our heart in the Caucasus, our heart in the Middle East, in the Shengal, in Tuzhurmatu, in Baku, in the Balkans. We, indeed, have carried the entire mixture of such a great culture to these Anatolian lands; if we are to live, we must all embrace them. I mean, let's not talk about international contracts, let's not talk about it, let's not talk about it, or let's just talk about it, guys, what's in it? Now, I took a look, maybe because I'm interested. In fact, the State Commission, which has been voiced doubts, has been told by the government that there may be some problems in business and administrative matters. Then, in order to benefit from financial support in this agreement -- be careful, in order to benefit from financial support -- yes, it was announced that the choice to be formed as a Dutch-based company -- is written here in English, in speech -- and in the name of investors of the project company established in the Netherlands -- notice, as an investor -- who signed a home government agreement with our government? Holland or Baku or Ankara? Who is the host government? The pipe goes through us, we get it, I'll come to him, I'll tell him now. Friends, really well-equipped, expert... yes, there's a serious attack on energy law in Turkey, I see, there are curious people because they made money. All media conglomerates have entered the energy field, and not a single Parliament has been able to dive in. It's the Clave that stays out there, who is ignorant, who doesn't know what it is, that's the will of the nation. He's taking it from the other side. Now, at this point, I'm wondering if the agreement on the 1-TANAP (at least) with the company in question should be approved properly. Our government has signed an international contract with a company; it's signed, right; then it's approved, and it's done. There are diplomats here again, both sides. This needs to be stored, the international contract. When international contracts are stored, they're fully alive. Now, I will immediately draw your attention to the 11th page of this life. Here, this is what's on page 11th, my friends. There's two pages in this with an ant prayer. Note these 2 pages: The Landlord Government Agreement is referred to. Who's not the host, Turkey? Azerbaijan is the host of the Dutch company. Now, here, in this project, there are some concepts. The name of the person in Turkey is being changed to the natural gas transmission company. It's named after the host government. From now on, he will be referred to as the Project Company. And look at this article, guys, I don't have glasses, but I'll be able to read it to you. and SD2 Gas Sales Agreement (iii) the transfer of 6 billion cubic metres of gas into and through the Republic of Turkey's territory -- the transit crossing through Turkey's territory, the delivery through Turkey's territory -- and a 15-year transport agreement for the delivery of the 1,000 cubic metres per year for the gas/or delivery of the US dollar, and the cost of the US-related gas (iii) BOTAS will increase the cost of each of the U.S.A.T.A.T.A.T.T.T.A.T.T.A.T.T.E.E.E.D.E.D.E.D. My friends, what do you understand from here, High Council? After all these years of commitments, every 1,000 years, look, $79 in Eskişehir, $103 per 1,000 cubic meter, not 1 barrel of raw oil money, friends. How much is one barrel of raw oil now?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0011par0085	$110.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0086	110 or 120? Around there. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0012par0087	102 bucks.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0005par0088	It's 102, the Minister told me. It's cheaper than the turmoil in the Middle East. Now, what I'm really trying to say here is that I'm not saying that Turkey shouldn't make such a deal with Azerbaijan, it has to be done. It has to be done with Iraq, and it's very, very important to strengthen our socioeconomic relations. But you have to keep it intact. Look, governments come and go, people come and go, companies come and go, but governments stay. My objection is to the corporations here, my friends. The government agreed with the company, the company went away, took the loan, took the money, didn't do the job, then the company went bankrupt. What's it gonna be, 18 years? I mean, there are questions here that can't find answers in the head. I, in the absolute sense of Turkey's economy, with Russia, with Azerbaijan, with Iran, with Iraq... I mean, what I'm trying to say here, is that there's a more organized support, to prepare this. We, the HDP, are, of course, in favor of developing all trade, economic, social, cultural relations with this kind of sister country. That's why, of course, we'll vote positive, but we've added our warnings. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Taner Star has asked to speak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0014par0098	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we're discussing one of the projects in which he uses all the advantages of Turkey's geography to deal with the international agreement's additional hosting agreement. First of all, I'd like to thank the ruling and opposition parties who contribute because it's a matter of national interest. The fact that I've already heard that they're going to vote positive is very important for our unity and for all the jobs we're going to do in the interest of Turkey. I'd like to continue my discussion by highlighting the issues that are particularly curious, if you'd like to give me general information. Turkey will be as strong as it has increased pipelines to pass over, and it will be as powerful as it projects them correctly. It is important to provide for itself, Turkey's needs, as well as for the needs of European Union member states. With the Russian Federation of Turkey, Azerbaijan will develop these projects along with Azerbaijan, Iran, Turkmenistan, and Iraq as much as possible. Other than the recent events of the Syrian regime, the project is also part of the project to connect the natural gas pipeline from Egypt to Turkey via Syria. Of course, the people of that country are the ones who will benefit from it. So, as a reason for peace, we try to develop natural gas and oil projects. TANAP is one of them. You know, Turkey's natural gas has a 30 billion cubic metres contract that comes from the Blue Stream, 16 bcm -- 16 billion cubic metres -- and 14 billion cubic metres of what we call the west line, especially through private companies and public companies. Ten billion cubic metres with Iran, 6.6 billion cubic metres with Azerbaijan, which are related to pipelines. And then there's what we call liquidated gas from Algeria and Nigeria, with a contract of about 50 billion cubic metres in Turkey. How much does he need? About 46 to 48 billion cubic meters. In particular, we believe that natural gas is partially used in electricity production, but in housing and industry. Because in terms of environmental factors, the use of natural gas in housing in terms of air pollution causes Turkey to create an energy sector that can produce more environmental projects. So, what are we doing in TANAP? TANAP is a project that will be produced from Azerbaijan, which begins from Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and will continue with pipelines, which will begin and continue until they reach Switzerland, especially in a 468 square-kilometer area in the Caspian region. The total amount of this project is 45 billion dollars. In these countries, 45 billion dollars are required to be spent within four years, mostly in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, Greece and Italy. 28 billion dollars of natural gas will be distributed from the bottom of the sea to these countries, and Turkey -- which has the longest pipeline, about 2,000km -- will pass the 1,830km pipeline through Turkey, and the most important part of it is what we call the "TANAP," which begins from the Georgia border and continues to the border with Greece. In order that there is no lack of information, I also say Mr. Kaplan to correct him, because he said that if I am wrongly wrong, correct me. He said, "We are not talking about the signature of an intergovernmental agreement; we are talking about the settlement of the intergovernmental agreement, the HEGA, which is the end of the intergovernmental agreement. If you look carefully, you'll see the signature of the Minister of Azerbaijan Oil in the intergovernmental agreement, next to Taner Yildiz, called Natik Aliyev. Maybe, we can jump, but let's make it right here. The hosting agreement is signed between the company that will carry out this project and the host country. The home country is the Ministry, which represents Turkey, by the power vested in the Council of Ministers, and the IGA, which I signed with my colleague, Natik Aliyev. The agreement between governments we call "Intergovernment Agreement" has been signed and is in effect. He passed through the House with the approval of the General Assembly again, all together. A change in the Dutch company: About two years ago, through their advisers, they told the Azerbaijan firms that if they built this company in the Netherlands, it would give them a huge advantage. We said: "No, it's true that any structure of this should be in Turkey." These were discussed, and the changes related to this are with the company, so... We are now witnessing the host agreement between the Azerbaijan company SOCAR and Turkey. What is the status of this? Intergovernmental agreements are approved by parliaments in some democratic countries, as in Turkey; in some places, they are approved by the heads of the country, and are also approved by parliament and evaluated on the basis of mutual reciprocity. But the hosting agreement is that whatever company is going to do it here will be able to do it within the borders of the government of the Republic of Turkey. Before that, the Blue Stream Project deals with the Russian Federation, each of the deals with Japan regarding nuclear projects, are passed through the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. What did we do with this project? In particular, we shared projects in all areas within 468 square kilometers of the Shahdeniz. We've raised our 9 per cent share to 19 per cent on account of TANAP. Guys, this is a project that each of us will be proud of, and we're talking about a project that they say is going to give us this share for $1 billion the next week, $600 million, and a month after that. Turkey is one of its most important import sources of energy to reduce its energy inputs within its borders or if it finds them, it is doing these projects outside its own borders. We're now getting about 50,000 barrels of oil from wells in the country, and we're getting close to that number from abroad, but oil is our oil. So we want to expand our economic boundaries, as long as our political boundaries remain stable, to increase our share in oil and gas exploration in the same way. Turkey has around 750-800,000 barrels of daily use. We have to get at least half of this from our own domestic or international resources by 2023, so we can reduce our dependency on the outside. After we raised our shares to 19 percent, we also increased our shares in TANAP (from 20% to 30 per cent) and 5 per cent will be funded by SOCAR. We're going to use 6 billion cubic metres of gas from here in the country. When? After 2019. At the end of 2018, hopefully this project will be completed, but if any of the rings of the chain remain missing, 45 billion dollars of investment will not be completed. Therefore, both the investments in both Azerbaijan and Georgia are of the same interest to us in Greece and Italy. In March 2015, we'll be able to lay the groundwork for this project, hopefully, for Turkey's foot to succeed. On September 20th, about ten days later, the main of the pipeline, which we call the South Caucasus Pipeline, which feeds the TANAP, will be laid down in Baku. Hopefully, with our Prime Minister, we'll accompany him to this ceremony and start the project. Of course, our project will be part of the solution to the problem of supply security in natural gas, not only in Turkey, but also in European Union member states. It's a very important structure. Although Turkey has not opened its energy header, its actual situation is far ahead of the document status, friends. The political sherdon, set up by the local Cypriot government of around 450, has linked 27 other countries, but it is also official that we do not find the European Union's stance very consistent with the fact that we are being built on the energy sector. Thirty-two billion cubic metres of natural gas will pass through here with 56-inch pipes, my friends. We want the important part of the pipes that will be used at 1,800 kilometers from Turkey to be provided, provided. This is Turkey's right, and 19 international firms have passed the qualifying test, and six of them have completed the test from Turkey. The tender has been tendered, so hopefully the next week will announce these tender results -- at least 75 per cent, maybe 80 per cent -- we want to be supplied by companies that produce these pipes in Turkey, because these billions of dollars must remain in Turkey. In this regard, I now believe that our hardworking local firms should make all the sacrifices they can make in order for them to better handle the final rope. What else do we do? Engineering has begun, and the route is now complete. It's a matter of publicisation, 1,800km of publicisation, which continues at five separate locations and will pass through our 19 counties. We're going to employ about 5,000 people here, and we're talking about a project that will be fully funded by international companies. Turkey here will not spend a dollar on its own resources, treasure, finance. That's the head of our energy projects. We talked about the part of BOTASH that has to do with nationalization. Kars, Erzurum, Erzincan, Sivas, Yozgat, Ankara, Eskişehir districts have been established as chiefs for publicisation, and nearly 600km of publicisation work has been completed and the village information meetings have been completed; what are we doing here, we have arrangements for the environment; we are meeting, our village elders, the elders there, the elders, the coffee houses, even at this kind of chat house. And by law, all of your suspension ads have been finished. Our work on camps and pipe stocks has been completed, and the land of land related to non-registers has been considered the same way. Now, I'd like to talk about one more important thing: what is the VAT exemption? Dear friends, in an international project, there are normally exceptions to VAT in projects related to transit transitions, which will come and go through Turkey, but these exceptions were redefined last year along with the Petroleum Law, which we took out, and were given the same exception to other projects -- not different from other projects -- that are recognised in the housing agreement here. This amendment was made so that it would not be affected by any changes in legislation based on segregated amendments. Dear friends, behind this project are the heads of state, heads of government, and the board of concerned ministers of all these countries. Companies may be doing it, BOTAS may be doing it, he may be a partner, but it is the government of the Republic of Turkey, which will give BOTAS political support and support for any financing. In the same way, for SOCAR, the Azerbaijan government has signed this international agreement, stated that it is behind SOCAR's company, that they have the power to complete this project in the event of any financial liability or obligation, and Turkey has also stated that it has the power to complete it. I'd like to correct one more mistake, I believe it was made: Azerbaijan natural gas, friends, is not the most expensive natural gas taken by Turkey. The most expensive natural gas received by the Republic of Turkey is natural gas from Iran, and it has expressed its objections. In meetings with our Iranian brothers and colleagues, there was no point in reaching a point where it would result and lower the price of natural gas directly. That's why international regulations have been enforced, and the government of the Republic of Turkey and our Ministry have given it to me. The issue is very clear, prices kept in trade secrets in international markets have been announced in some newspapers. But as Mazhar Osman said, it doesn't matter if he's telling the price, the right price, the important thing is that if I said the price, he'd sign it. That's why it's against international agreements for us to pronounce it. It's not a matter of secrecy, it's an international courtesy. Again, they've had their last hearing, and the Iranian inquiry is about to be finalized. After that, the last meeting of experts and lawyers will be held within the month, and by the end of the year, hopefully the dispute between Iran and the Turkish Republic of Turkey will be tied to a point. Dear friends, we need to increase and support these projects, as our other opposition party members have mentioned. The more we increase the number of projects, the more we emphasize the advantages of Turkey's geography. Are South Mediterranean projects an exception? South Mediterranean projects are no exception, but it is not right to discuss economic feasibility until political feasibility is restored. There was a human drama. They will certainly tell the international arena how to make up for this human drama and how to share every source, of course, resources, natural resources of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. In the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus -- which is again the Parliament of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus -- they have declared that they could share it with South Cyprus in case of any source of oil or natural gas. That's an important angle. Sources dating from the local administration of Cyprus are based on the sharing of the resources produced in the north and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus with the South. Therefore, Turkey will continue its consistent energy policies and strategies, and hopefully, together, it will continue the construction on reducing import resources in particular and obtaining domestic resources. Our projects don't just end with this. We'll be sharing a model of funding for an important domestic source that we'll announce next month with the Turkish Grand National Assembly, hopefully, and that's an important project for the local resources of Turkey. These projects will always, hopefully, continue because we have a lot of resources. Our country's 10 per cent stake in the Victory-Message field is part of this project. I would like to thank again our ruling party, our fellow lawmakers from our EC PARTY, and my friends from the opposition, who have contributed to this international agreement, the TANAP Project. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0015par0123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0016par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0017par0125	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement that something special has happened.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0015par0126	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0017par0127	If you'd like, if you could open it up, it might be helpful for our friends to hear it.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0015par0128	Let's turn on the mike, over.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0017par0129	It's a special occasion, that's why.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0015par0130	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0017par0133	Dear President, my fellow MPs, an hour ago, around 2:00 p.m., unfortunately, a train hit a car in Beyce village, 10km from Soma district of Manisa. Three of our citizens lost their lives and one injured. It was an accident caused by an uncontrollable transition. I wanted to announce this to our House, and to all of them, I ask God's mercy on those who have passed away, and to our wounded, and to their families, and to their families, I pray for patience. I wanted to make that clear. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0015par0135	Thank you. We pray for immediate healing for our wounded citizens, mercy for those who have lost their lives, and patience for their families. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0018par0142	Thank you. I ask for God's mercy to our citizens who have lost their lives because of the accident, and I ask for patience, and I want to say that it is time for serious work on the control of these accidents. Mr. Secretary, thank you. I wanted to make a correction to your explanations. They answered, of course, they didn't say anything -- maybe later -- about this gas rise in Turkey, about the report card. Mr. Secretary, of course, when you make a law, you don't pay attention to the contract. If it had been taken care of, we would have discussed the international contract you mentioned first, number 643, because it is the principal contract.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0019par0146	642.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0018par0147	643, then 642, plus 642. Now, here, there is a clause called additives. There is a clause called additives that can be done. You have to take it that way. It can be done as a whole. However, after listening to Mr. Minister's statement on SOCAR, Mr. President, it is imperative that he explain that yesterday, with a last-minute government motion on the law, the SOCAR was made to provide a major advantage, so he entered into the tender. The money to go to the forest treasure, even though it's in the tender... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Over $5 million went to SOCAR. Were these contracts connected to SOCAR? We'd like to know that, too.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0020par0152	You may ask in the QA, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Row, I've been informed that you've withdrawn your request to speak.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0021par0154	I'll do it, sir. Let's buy some time. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0020par0159	Now, let's move on to the question-answer part. Yes, our time is 20 minutes; we ask ten minutes, we answer ten minutes. Here you go. The only person who asks questions is Hasip Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0022par0163	Mr. Secretary, this contract has a SOCAR Azerbaijan government company. This state company has a serious investment in Turkish gas transport. Yesterday, because the bag was linked to these contracts in the law, I would like to ask you, although it was suddenly not on the agenda, there was an arrangement that gave SOCAR until 2023, which gave it a serious advantage and reduced its share of the forest area to 1 percent. Were such talks held during government talks? Is that what this is about, this last-minute motion? We've been wondering about that. There was SOCAR yesterday, there's SOCAR today. We'd appreciate an explanation.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0020par0164	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we're waiting for you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0023par0166	Mr. President, I apologize for my delay, there was an important phone call, I was talking to our Prime Minister. I'd like to continue by apologizing to the High Council again. Now, dear friends, we are a growing country with international investors and a growing country with international capital. We have to make it easier for the international investor to stay within the law in all our transactions, as long as we stay within the law, but that is to stay within the limits of the law and remain within the limits of the law. And I'm going to make another commitment in the following law, Mr. Kaplan -- because the process is not enough -- about those other issues, about natural gas. Now, you asked if the Treaty of TATAP had anything to do with that change in the Law of the Forest yesterday? You asked if this TANAP change has anything to do with SOCAR's investments in Turkey? I didn't get it wrong, did I? Now, my dear friends, the change in the Law of the Forest is at the site of a five-star hotel in any area of tourism. What's this about? A port will be built, which is the S.T.A.R. company that invests in PETKIM's submission, and is owned by SOCAR. So it's SOCAR, which owns 70 per cent of TANAP (TANAP), which owns 30 per cent of its shares. The S.T.A.R. refinery does not have any shares of BOTASH, or TPAO. After the privatisation of PETKIM, a number of oil products in particular are invested $5.2 billion in reducing congestion and opening a new market, and there is a change in the Port Forest Law. The Law of the Forest also gives up: 50 per cent of the investment there is recorded as income. Tourism investments here have so far been exceptional. Harbor investment is no less important than tourism investments, the opposite is more important, and that's the point of the job's feasibility and subject. That's the arrangement we've had. I'm supplying, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0024par0172	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AZERBURITAN REPUBLICATION IN THE ACTIVITY OF THE UNIVERSE COMMUNITY OF THE UNIVERSE COMMUNITY REPLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TANS ANADOLUTION V. On the matter of my Trans-anadou birth-placed boru crime scene, the study of the law of home law is the basis of the study of the law. MADDE 1- (1) Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and TANAP Natural Gas Message Corporation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Government of the Trans Anadolu National Gas Pipeline, and the Trans Anatolian Gas Pipeline Company B. V. Among them, the adoption of the Change to the Homeowner Government Agreement on Trans-Anadolu Natural Gas Pipeline System was appropriate. İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0025par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Our dear lawmakers told all of this agreement during talks yesterday that the Republican People's Party has no objection, our friend said. We supported the agreement at the Foreign Commission, and we have no objection to Article 1 of the agreement. I'd just like to point out a few things when these kind of deals are being made. The speaker of the National Movement Party, the Speaker of Peoples' Democratic Party, pointed out various points of the agreement. I'd like to point out the security part of this deal once again. Now, we're building a pipeline, but we're surrounded by fire. When we look around us, the organization that we once knew as the Islamic State of Iraq and Damascus is ISIS, but now calls itself the State of Islam, for short, has pretty much all of our mujaviral geography. This organization, I'm hoping it's because of our inefficiency, and it's a bit of a contradiction that I'm saying, but I want to hope there's nothing else behind it, but 49 members of the Musul consulate, including our Consul General, have been held hostage. When these 49 personnel are taken hostage, our hands are tied against this ISIS. There have now been many talks about ISIS at the NATO Council, where our newly elected President joined. NATO does not have to take action on this issue, NATO cannot decide on its own, and the United Nations Security Council must decide to allow NATO to take positions in territorial movements. There's no such decision yet, but there's a very serious study that America has launched to establish a coalition within NATO. In order for that work to succeed, Turkey must actually be included in this coalition. Now, I read in the papers recently that some columnists are happy to write that Turkey has expressed satisfaction with its support for the fighting terrorists in Iraq and Syria. It's not a good thing to declare that satisfaction, my friends. Look, in diplomatic language, to thank Turkey for this matter means that Turkey should do these things. They don't thank England, France, Iran. Iran fills the gap Turkey left for security in the Middle East, and the international community trusts Iran more than we do. The organization, which we call the Light, is holding 49 people hostage. These 49 people, the current Prime Minister, were taken hostage during the mandate of former Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. While the 62nd government's programme was being discussed, Mr. Arinc was responding to the speech of the Republican People's Party spokesman, making some witty remarks as he responded. I watched those witty speeches as the Prime Minister laughed and laughed as he was sitting right now. While 49 Turkish Foreign members, their families were in ISIS' hands, the day before that ISIS cut off the head of the 2nd American journalist in front of the televisions, I was surprised that the Prime Minister could still laugh at jokes when we at least didn't know what was going to happen to him. May God not be ashamed of what the Prime Minister said when he took over as Prime Minister. How can Allah disgrace the disbelievers even more? Where we've come from, where we've come from. All of us have fallen into the hands of terrorist organizations that we've brought into the region with our own hands. These terrorist organizations have invaded our official building, no harm, no harm, no foul. The flag they call the flag has fallen down, made it their headquarters, we don't know where our people are. Now, so much comfort -- so much comfort about these people -- brings to mind some conspiracy theories. I'm not the kind of person who's given a bonus to conspiracy theories my whole life, and I'm not the kind of person who's open to conspiracy theories, but how comfortable is it that these 49 people are there in a certain way? In order to ensure that we don't join the fight against ISIS, our men are in their hands, we're not doing anything, I'm sorry. The ideas come to mind, like, is he there to say, "Is he there?" And I want to hope that when I start talking about these ideas, I'm going to hope that they're a failure. When I say that, if it's a failure, it's at least acceptable. But if there's such an account, if we've left these people in their hands by agreeing to not join the fight against organizations in our region, that's a terrible thing, because these people are not the organizations in the chain of command. You never know what these organizations will do tomorrow. They'll put the head of the man you left with trust before God shows it to you. You have to be very careful with these. This agreement also includes a serious pipeline, a pipeline in Turkey's best interest. I'd like to thank Mr. Energy Minister for his work on this matter. Indeed, he said as we speak, in the interest of our country, in the interest of our government, but how will we ensure the safety of this matter? Who is it? What is it? We have over a million Syrian refugees in this ISIS. How many ISIS members are among these Syrian refugees? We are mentioned to 3,000 people who have joined ISIS. When those 3,000 people come back, can we track them or not? All the other countries are seriously following people from their homeland, looking for them, trying to prevent what they can do on their return. I don't know what we do about these things. Now, a friend of ours spoke today, and a little later, if we can finish our agenda today, maybe we'll make the long vacation that we couldn't make during the summer, a little shorter, but during that vacation, the Turkish National Assembly will have no idea what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on. After we shut it down, the government will still have this job, but the government doesn't seem to be able to satisfy those hostages from any of the contacts we've had with these hostages' families so far. For example, there are two little babies, can you imagine two hostages, two little babies, one named North, one named Ela.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0026par0190	Grew up, grew up, grew up...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0025par0191	One of them is sick, and the government has informed; the government has provided that doctors be sent to them. They told their parents: "One of the children got sick, and we got the doctor sent, and there was nothing to worry about. What baby was sick?," they asked. He doesn't know which baby's sick, who's giving the parents this information. Whether she's sick or sick, where she's sick, where she's sick, where the doctor's gone, what her diagnosis is, whether she's in good health or not, these are unknown. It's a very sad situation, something that we couldn't even think of five years ago, that it could actually fall into Turkey. It's not just us, it's the countries around us that don't think that Turkey could fall into this position, it's the kind of situation that they don't even dare to do, but it's happened to us. Now, in all our activities, especially in our economic activities, in our pipeline activities, in our oil activities, etcetera, we need to make every effort to secure them. And, friends, every time we go out here, we ask the government to share it with us, with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's being said. Not just us, but the ruling MPs aren't well-informed enough to know what's going on. That's what we need to know. We are here, the institution in charge of the Republic of Turkey, the chosen, free will, the sovereign of the only sovereignty. The Prime Minister needs to answer to us. When the president uses his title as commander-in-chief to extend his invitation to August 30th, he uses his commander-in-chief as a representative of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we need to know about it, and we need to be informed of all these issues. So I draw your attention again to the security aspect of this matter. I would like a little more transparency in the closed session, if necessary, at least in the activities of ISIS, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0027par0195	Thank you. We're moving on to the QA. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0028par0198	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, it has been three months since 11 June 2014. What is the fate of 49 of our citizens who have been held hostage by an unsubstantiated organization known as ISIS for three months, but cannot be called a terrorist organization, and who can't be told by the government that this is a terrorist organization? In this regard, what is the reason why this Grand Assembly has not been informed until now, even though the present Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, has promised to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? As a cabinet member, what do you know about this? Can you share with us what you know? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0029par0201	Thank you. No more questions. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0030par0204	Mr. President, the issue of ISIS, of course, has come to us as an organization with at least six units working together with Syria and Iraq over the past four years. Of course, the fact that 49 of our citizens were detained there and held hostage makes each of us deeply hurt and sad. We have put the health of our people there first, including the sensitivity and secrecy of the work done so far, and the opposition, which is largely concerned with this kindness, and each one of us needs to be kind about it. Until now...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0031par0206	But until when?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0030par0207	Look, dear friends, this is not an easy matter. Of course, it's not right for me to be here, to follow up on the political aspects of this -- first of all, the health of our people there in the first place -- and with all aspects of it, there has not been any lack of initiative and all political aspects of it, and most of all, we will be the ones who want to save the hostages there and make the most of it, of course, every one of us will be the ones making the effort. It's not right that everything we know from that point of view should be shared in public, and we're all going to watch the developments. It is our hope, our hope, that it is our faith, that all these hostages be saved at once.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0032par0209	Thank you. Talks on Article 1 have ended. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2 ▪ This goes into effect in the history of the publication of the Law. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 2, İstanbul MP Ali Özgündün will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0033par0217	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. Let me start by saying that we support this agreement signed between our Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Azerbaijan, we find it appropriate, and we vote positive. Azerbaijan, Can Azerbaijan, who is truly Turkey's friend in a way that is unlike any other country, is actually the same nation -- as the merciful Aliyev (said). This is not only rhetoric, dear friends, but Azerbaijan is also a strategic country for Turkey's interests in the Caucasus, Central Asia. So if Azerbaijan -- God forbid -- is torn between Turkey and Turkey, then Turkey will be cut off from the Turkish world, from Central Asia, and from the Caucasus. It's such a critical country, and for us, it's now a country of unprecedented proximity in the world. Therefore, we believe that such strategic energy agreements between Azerbaijan and our country, such as the Baku-Tiflis-Kars Railway Project, again, are in the best interest of both countries, and more likely to make our relations more controversial, more intimate. We believe so that we should not hurt Azerbaijan, nor offend Can Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan is now the most important problem, you know, the occupied land and the problem of Upper Karabago. Do not let the government of the Republic of Turkey make a mistake in this matter. So, okay, we're not enemies with anyone, and Armenia is our neighbor, and we have no enemies with the Armenian people, and of course we'll be friends with everyone, but if we lose Azerbaijan to please them, it's not really a pragmatic event in terms of our country's interests, even if you think pragmatically. Therefore, I hope the government is sincere. The government of the Republic of Turkey (Turkish Republic) will not normalise its relations with the Armenians until this issue has been resolved since the past, since Karabağ and Azerbaijan (Turkish Republic) was occupied. So if the West, the United States, is associated with Armenia at his request and Azerbaijan is offended, then Turkey will actually lose. Armenia's friendship is not enough for us. I'm warning you from here. A second matter, dear friends, is sufficient for Azerbaijan's religion, his sect. Don't ever -- again, I warn you as a citizen and MP of the Republic of Turkey -- don't let Turkey try to export religion and sects there. Again, Azerbaijan's religion, his religion, his sect, should not be exported there to any sect, for there are signs in that direction. The government of Turkey will no longer accept this sectarian policy. The Prime Minister's sect was always prominent when he spoke about Iraq earlier. You know there's been a new government in Iraq. I've spoken to Mr. Energy Minister in particular before, and there's no mention of his sect when talking to the prime minister of any country, but you're always talking about Iraq, and you're saying, "Sui Maliki, stop it." I'll do my warning duty again now. A government was formed as chairman of Haydar Al-Ibadi. He is the Foreign Minister of the government, former Prime Minister, and our friend, Mr. Ibrahim Jaferi. And on this occasion, I wish you the best of luck from here to the Iraqi government. I hope, Minister, you won't call this one Haydar al-Ibadi, and this one tomorrow. Please give up this policy. There are some information about Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) where our country, as a partner with Saudi Arabia, is involved in some projects aimed at supporting and raising Sunni groups, including Selefi, Vahabi groups. As a matter of fact, earlier, you know, in the mosque that was built by our President of Religious Affairs in the Sinister of Martyrs, these Salefi groups began to organize, and the mosque was shut down because there was an explosion there. Stay out of this kind of business, it'll be a disaster. If you try to export to Azerbaijana, Kafkasya, if you try to fuel sectarian conflicts there, it is not only the Caucasus, but Turkey's first degree. Why do I say that? Because from Azerbaijan, there are more seriously killers who go to Syria, who are now going to ISIS, who are in conflict, who are furious. When we speak to our friends there, Mr. Minister, this Selefi of Azerbaijan is strongly opposed to the Wahhabi organisations, but unfortunately some people from Turkey have supported the organisation of these organizations. This is serious, don't go there. Number two: ISIS has arrived and has reached our limit. A new government was established in Iraq. If you want to keep the relations with the new government warm -- it is mandatory for the interests of our country -- that Tarik Hashimi (a man) who has taken our consulate officials hostage and congratulated Musul (Isul) for the first time, send Tarik Hashimi (Azik) from this country, and wherever he goes, he is a man sentenced to death in Iraq. If you'd like to turn over a new leaf, I'd like you to reconsider your relations with Tarek Hashimi, and the remains of Saddam. Azerbaijan is the land of the Shah Habiti. Therefore, when you set up the Yavuz bridge, remember that you broke the name of the third bridge, not only Alevi, Jaferi, Shii. But also Azerbaijan. So, that bridge is scheduled to open next May, sir, which is where we're coming from, so find a more proper name for the conjunctural. With this agreement, of course, our country shares projects in the Shahdeniz, and the transfer of natural gas from Shahdeniz to Europe through Turkey makes Turkey a strategic middle-vana country for energy, for our country's benefit, for Azerbaijan's benefit; we support this, we support this agreement. There's something else going on here. Some Turkish schools in Azerbaijan have been transferred to SOCAR. There are also allegations that your government has formed an alliance with the government for the past 12 years, that the schools of the community you have declared an enemy today have been transferred to SOCAR, under pressure from the Republic of Turkey. Don't interfere in these matters, look in the interest of our country, look in the future of Turkey, I say we stand by you as opposition, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0034par0233	Thank you. There's a question in the QA section. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0035par0236	Mr. President, thank you. Such as this international contract, because of legislation that seems to be a deal, our orators often use expressions of satisfaction in energy. I see that there are constant acts of natural gas all over Turkey, people suffering from paying for it. When these laws come out, can our Minister say that there's no shortage of electricity, there's no line of natural gas, that our people can use them, that they can pay for them? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0036par0239	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0037par0240	Mr. President, dear friends, of course, thank you to our congressman, who expressed a public sentiment. Now, dear friends, we must agree on one thing with his opposition, which is that we must not leave any of our citizens' rights above the other until we reach Kars, Kars, and Hatay. What is this? Now, electricity prices in Turkey are the same everywhere, and the same in our 81 provinces. Each one has subscription prices; you have agricultural irrigation, you have housing, you have business, you have industry. Now, dear friends, do we agree that those who pay must be given electrical services, and those who can't pay in one way or another must be compensated for their debts. Some of our citizens ask: "Let's not pay, but let's also use electricity. Look, in a district, I'd say about 140-150,000 people in a county, the rate of not paying is 95 percent. Can the rate of payment be 5%? Is that reasonable? Can this be met correctly? Wouldn't that undermine our structure of government, willpower, management? Now, it's said that we act, you cut off our electricity. Dear friends, if anyone's willing to pay, we're going to have to do it, and we're going to have to show you all kinds of ease, publicly and as a private company. But I don't want to pay for electricity, I don't offer configuration, I don't have any payment schedules, you can't cut my electricity. Someone who says, "I'm sorry, we're going to have to cut his electricity, both for the sake of the subject and for the state. Now, for once, we have to agree on this. The second issue, dear friends, is that we, along with energy investments in Turkey, have more resources than demand in the last 12 years. We now have more supplies in 12 percent, around 15 percent. We don't have a problem with electricity, with energy, thank God. 245 billion kilowatts of electricity was consumed last year. I mean, now, who's running out of electricity? It consumes about 29 million subscribers. I mean, how are we supposed to talk about electricity consumption if this energy isn't being used? So we don't approve of our citizen's sensitivity, perhaps by burning the transformers, by attacking buildings, and by tearing down the poles there, and we don't think it's right, and we don't find such actions as a reason why they don't pay for electricity. I think it would be more appropriate for the matter to be known that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0038par0247	Mr. Secretary, it's not just your choice.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0037par0248	On purpose, you know, everybody's taking your thing.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0039par0249	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0040par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a certain percentage of these electricity bills are taken as a TRT share of the bills. Do you plan to remove these TRT shares, especially if you consider TRT's biased publications in the two elections held in 2014? Or is it not more reasonable, sir, to think that it would be more reasonable for TRT to pay the people who are on his side, who are on his political side? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0041par0253	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0042par0254	Mr. President, dear friends, of course we're talking about something important. With the rules and publishing policies that TRT has established today, of course, it has to maintain its objectiveness as our national channel, and it tries to respond to debates in public from time to time as well as with its transparency. Now, dear friends, you know, the 3.5 per cent TRT share in electricity bills has been reduced to 2 per cent. At the moment, each of us gives 2% of the electricity bills to the funding of the TRT. Dear friends, look, in case it's from the public budget, the government that makes that budget can't be funded from the public budget because it's going to be affected, but it needs to be budgeted, in some way. We said that if we had a share of this in our election statements, if it was funded, the TRT share would be reset. Now, with all of our institutions, together with all of our structures, if it can be funded by a fund outside the public budget -- which is our national network today, because it has all of our national politics, all of the structure that has become state policy -- we need to support it as a country along with the children's channels, TRT Arabic and all of the other channels. In case there's a new fund for this, as I said, I'm going to say once again that we're going to act on these goals. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0043par0258	The national network needs to know its place.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0044par0259	It has to be national, so if it's national, it has to be national.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit02spe0045par0260	Congressmans, the negotiations of Article 2 have been completed. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Word on Article 3? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of the clear vote of Bill 642: ▪ Number of votes used : 235 [[x]] The bill is adopted and legalized. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0045par0001	I now open the Third Session of Turkey's 139th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Government of the Trans Anatolian State Gas Pipeline on the Approval of Agreement of the Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 643 rows. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0046par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Milletist Movement Party Group on the Charter of the Perpetual Law, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey, 643 and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, in accordance with the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline System. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to thank you first for the statements you've just given me, but especially when we're discussing Turkey's relations with Azerbaijan or discussing the economic scale of this business, we shouldn't discuss it in terms of a profit-effective, cost-effective, income-gone relationship. The Azerbaijan-Turkey relations are far beyond the cost-effects, far beyond the cost-effects, and we need to first highlight this -- historical, sociological, cultural dimensions, and strategically, both Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) and the mana that these dimensions are uploading to both Turkey and the Turkish world. We need to see closely that the geography and economic resources, including Azerbaijan, are facing global strategic interests. When the American Gerald Robins spoke of the geopolitical importance of the region, those who control the Persian pipelines will also control the world. When we say "Ipek pipelines," we need to understand the energy-related organisations in the context of Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and the Iraqi region, and use it in that sense. The famous strategist Brzezinski said the continent of Eurasia should take over the United States, saying that the global superiority of the United States of America depends on how long and how long it can last on the continent of Eurasia. After the Cold War, the region became a place for big games. Now, look, the Armenian-Azerbaijan conflict and relations are also the problem of the Mountain Karabağ problem, the Israeli-Palestin problem, the problem of Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, ISIS, Iran. There will be no way to detect the events that have occurred here before we know it. In this regard, while considering any economic relationship, any organisation, I stress in particular that we should do the same strategic assessment in terms of Turkey and the Turkish world. Azerbaijan and Turkey are an extension of one another as geography, a complement of another as history, and an identity as culture. So much common denominator, it would be much easier to combine meaning and interests among countries with its common denominator. Today we see political, military, social, economic relations between two friends and brother countries at a positive level, but we also want to stress that these relationships are not at the level they should be. Azerbaijan and Turkey are two important countries connecting Europe and Asia. The historical projects both countries have demonstrated their will to carry out will tie Turkey and Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) tightly together. In fact, this project is one of them. In this regard, all activities that connect Turkey and the Turkish world with Turkey are worthy to be applauded, praised and supported. The Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project, planned for signing and projecting the Trans Adriatic Pipeline, will serve the next generation decades later and will be one of the best gifts we can leave to Turkey-Azerbaijan unity. The implementation of the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline will also connect Turkey and Azerbaijan, once again, tightly. Moreover, Turkey and Azerbaijan must be tightly linked with its economic and political ties, as well as with its historical and cultural ties. In this context, Turkey and Azerbaijan must activate all economic, cultural and political potential and reserves. I want to express in particular that there is a very serious potential here, and there is a very important reserve, and the fact that this potential and reserve has been activated that has not been opened and has not been really noticed, will lead to a serious jump in both Turkey and the Turkish world in a regional sense. Both pipelines, energy transfer elements, and economic initiatives, as well as those connections with education, transport and communication lines, are useful to establish and activate. Turkey needs a new vision in this context, more than that, a renewed strategy. I would also like to present a brief assessment of the power and potential of Turkey and the Turkish world in this context. Azerbaijan is geopolitically the throat or binding element of the Turkish world. In this regard, the link between Turkey and Azerbaijan is essentially the link between Europe and the first Asia and Central Asia. In this sense, the Black Sea ports are the only areas where the closed black basin of Central Asia will be integrated into the West, where it can reach the great market. As a matter of fact, Kazakhstan, with its great strategic prediction, obtained an exit to an open sea port by renting Batum Harbor for the long term. The integration of Turkey's Black Sea Region and its ports through iron through Georgia, Hopa will provide a major logistical and strategic advantage for the region. The dynamics of Oğuz geography need to be recognized. Because this is our nearby land and sea basin. Since power has buried its head in the Middle East, it misses new perspectives in the new process. See, when the port of Tripoli is integrated through iron through Georgia into the Eurasia railways, it means that the Middle East, Africa, Central Asia, Far East lines are the most advantageous combination of each other. Precious lawmakers, when we think of the area in broad terms with the Black Sea basin, it is especially important that the population of 500 million people is over a trillion dollars in trade volumes, the face measurement of 20 million square kilometers, and the world's largest two-tenth energy basin is on transmission and operating lines. To make the matter more clear, we need to remember some distances from Tripoli. Almati is 3,058 kilometers from Tripoli, Baku is 1.100 km, Tbilisi is 444 km, Bazergan is 650 km, Tebriz is 950 km, Tehran is 1,617 km, Nahçivan is 750 km, Diyarbakır is 726 km, Mardin is 721 km. This is the second alternative location in which the region will be opened after the port of Mersin. Asia has the advantage of linking Asia to the Middle East, the east and southeast of Turkey, the nearest and optimum road to the Asian market. This will also bring Turkey's integration and integration into the Turkish world and relative communities in terms of markets. Precious lawmakers, given the Azerbaijan and Turkey perspective, it is estimated that by 2020, nearly $20 billion of Azerbaijan capital would be added to Turkey's economy and that more investments would flow to Azerbaijan. The relationship between Azerbaijan and Turkey is unique and private. It's not just a strategic relationship, it's much more than that; it's a share based on common values, history, culture, religion, language, geography. It's a partnership of fate and grief. Turkey's development means Turkey's development as well as Azerbaijan's development. Relationships between Turkey and Azerbaijan must be developed in every sense and must be moved further. However, given the culture, geography, and historical wealth of the two countries, it is not possible to say that relationships have reached the desired level of potential. At this point today, Turkey-Azerbaijan relations are far from expected. This region, including Azerbaijan, should be assessed not only with its economic and strategic resources but also with its cultural potential. In addition to the political struggle in the region, a cultural struggle continues at the same speed. There are good reasons for that. Azerbaijan and Turkey are actually two complementary pieces of geography, two states, but one geopolitical is reality. This geopolitical reality includes the integrity of spiritual and cultural values. We're talking about two geographys that will get richer and stronger and more integrated as we get together. Turkey, a special part of Azerbaijan's foreign policy, must and should continue to take part in the country's troubled times under the politics of friendship and brotherhood. Especially in the post-independence period, Turkey has played a major role in creating international public opinion for recognition of the country's independence and territorial integrity. The next period of work and closeness have also evolved to the level of strategic partnership. On the other hand, it is important not to mention that relations developed by the AKP's government with Armenia have a negative impact on relations between Turkey and Azerbaijan. The protocols signed by Davutoglu and the Nalbantian duo between Turkey and Armenia must be first and foremost to tighten the Azerbaijan-Turkey relations, even to the point of separation of relations. Each step in the region will have to be considered in a dialectic sense the impact on other countries, especially among our own geography and our own social structures. We need to watch closely how they will be affected, what steps we take will cause storms in their cognitives. In that sense, when such a step is taken, we all know and we see a result, such as the download of flags in both countries, as a result of this step that has been taken regardless of some things. Dear lawmakers, it is mandatory for the peace and interests of the region that the peoples around the Turkish world should be in tight co-operation with each other, in solidarity and cooperation with each other, psychological and sociological rule. Those who need to be together, if they can't win or be together, they'll be in a situation where they lose separately. The relations between Turkey and Azerbaijan are in this exact context a strategic context. Because after the Cold War, the world has not yet stabilized, especially in Turkey and Azerbaijan. It is necessary to take this very seriously and examine it. Projects referred to as the Great Middle East Project, intervention in central Iraq, intervention in Afghanistan, are in fact after the Cold War. Someone in the region is designing the area in accordance with their needs. It is also the duty of the government in Turkey to understand the efforts of such efforts and to demonstrate the necessary measures against them. States such as Azerbaijan and Turkey have to maintain and maintain multi-dimensional relationships and development in a global context, regardless of the interests of their own relatives and siblings. Also, it is extremely dangerous to reduce relations with the Turkish world to formal size and to address relations with other countries in the context of almost internal relations. Multidimensional, flexible and loose strategies do not allow us to focus enough on facts. The desire to take things everywhere will result in a lack of acceptance anywhere. Besides, everyone knows it's illegal to go outside the mosque when it's still inside. It's also our faith's duty to start far away. So, without making all these developments around us a stability, without making peace and peace in our own and in our relatives and brothers communities, far away, dealing with peace and peace is no more than a utopian approach, and the consequences of that are very painfully returned to all of us as fed back, every day. Azerbaijan is a priority for Turkey and Turkey is a priority for Azerbaijan. But we can talk about the future of strategies that give priority to their host. Conjunctural praise and abuse are temporary. There's never a future on a conjunctural. Conjunctivative, however, may be a process used to provide for the interests of an oportunist. The history of the desert is wild, where history shows us that those who bless and applaud and lynch and bury in the desert are always the same people. In this context, Azerbaijan deserves more attention from power to the Middle East and North Africa in the context of the Turkish world. Dear lawmakers are united in Turkish-Azerbaijan relations, economic, social, and military and political relations. In this context, it is unacceptable for Azerbaijan's lands to be occupied by Armenia. The Armenian aggression and arrogance of the region cannot be watched any longer. I say out loud: The fact that 25 per cent of Azerbaijan's land is still under Armenian occupation today is a problem for Turkey above all, and Turkey must make the necessary exits on this issue. You will invade, and you will commit genocide in a place like Hodja, and you will go out and yell, "Oh, my God! No, they won't! For him, the state of the Republic of Turkey, first of all, as I just said, is as interested in the Azerbaijan natural gas as it is in its position and position to deal with the massacres at the Hodja in Azerbaijan. You're clapping, thank you, but bring me this proposal and we'll pass it on as genocide. The council in Sudan is passing, and our Turkish Grand National Assembly is holding up proposals on one side. I'll clean it up, I'll delicate it / Leave it for a while, I'll do it tomorrow. It's a full AKP policy. When there's a national issue, we face a policy like this. Aman, there's going to be a song by Arif. We're going to be sad here. You're going to risk things, you're going to consider things so you can get results. No success can be reversed, no consequence can be achieved without taking the risk, everything has a cost. As long as we accept this cost, we have to achieve a certain kind of success behind it, and we are in position. While Karabağ is under occupation, while the Azerbaijan lands are occupied, Turkey, like the Palestinian issue, must take this issue as its own matter and take it seriously. The rescue of Azerbaijan's occupied territory and the Karabağ problem should be viewed as Turkey's problem. That's the spirit, that's what it's all about. In this regard, Turkey's relations with Armenia must be fully indexed to the end of the invasion of Karabago, where the government's recent remarks on this matter are at this point. Turkey's relations with Armenia must be constantly expressed within the territory of Azerbaijan, under no circumstances and that it will never be allowed to establish a second Armenian state. It should also be stressed that the mountain is an integral part of Azerbaijan. The genocide carried out by Armenia must also be recognized by Turkey without delay. In particular, we ask Turkey and Azerbaijan to bring blessings to the Turkish world, and expect further work to continue by enriching it. On this occasion, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0047par0036	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. AZERBURITH REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY The adoption of The Covenant between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which was signed in Ankara on 26 May 2014, was appropriate. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Aytuğ Atcı will speak on Article 1. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0048par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have taken a pledge between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the 1st Article of the Dair Legislature, that Approvement of The Covenant of the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline System is appropriate. I salute all lawmakers who do not condemn our people to nuclear rays. Mr. Secretary, you weren't here yesterday. I thanked you for the bill you accepted earlier, and you took our suggestions into consideration. We've been trying for a long time, and you've finally turned your direction into a little solar energy, and you're back. And I thank you again for that, and I really congratulate you on the solar energy production system that was done or started at the Conium Carpınar. However, I also condemned you yesterday for not giving up on your nuclear love, and I continue to condemn you. And while I have discovered a way to achieve such beautiful and clean energy, I still condemn you for authorizing 15 thermal plants in that paradise basin from Alexander's to Mersin. Mr. Minister, you are up, you have discovered solar energy in the Conium Karapınar, and 3,000 megawatts -- if I'm wrong -- you will spend $6 billion to get an energy. You will spend 25 billion dollars to obtain 4,500 megawatts at Mersin Akkuyu, and then at the nuclear plants you will build in Sinop. So, when you were going to get all the energy from Akkuyu Nuclear Plant for $9 billion, you agreed to $25 billion. You've just said the right to be a child, you've said the right to be a child, and I'm offering it to you. So, since you've discovered solar energy, you've discovered renewable energy, you need to turn around right now. I told you a long story yesterday, so I won't mention it again. It's about, of course, natural gas. So you said, you're using a significant portion of natural gas to generate energy. You said it wasn't true, you said it was expensive. You're right, I agree with you. It's a good thing you're aware of that. Of course, we think it's only right that natural gas should be brought to the cities without natural gas, without natural gas. Now, when you can get this much beautiful and clean energy, you're still trying to get energy from fossil fuels, gasses, natural gasses. Look, he's got one degree, and you're trying to turn around and build 15 thermal power plants between Alexander and Mersin. You put a nuclear plant next to these thermal plants. And to satisfy the concrete needs of all this, you build a cement factory there. You're also building a port for the coal to come by sea and move to the thermal plant. I mean, what harm do you do to Mersin? They ask you, your government. I swear to God, you couldn't have done any worse. I don't know how long you've been out there, I don't know how much you've seen it, and I don't know how important it is to us. Look, Stoner is one of the most beautiful ports in the world. Where seals live, it's the breeding ground of seals. Caretta caretta lives, it's so clean, it's so beautiful, and you set out there to build an illegal port, an illegal port. You're building an illegal port, so I don't want to say unlicensed, but in violation of international agreements, especially the Bern Convention, you started building a port there. I've asked you this many times with questions, but you've never acted in any way. It is a natural habitat, known to the world, and protected by the Bern Convention, but you brought it to the Port of the Flood, Yeşilovacık, to carry the coal of the stone, and to build such a port. You had no right to do that, Minister. Now, look, remember the places where the thermal plants are, remember the beden, remember Elbia, and look around the fields. Nothing grows there, Minister. Nothing. You could never have done us a greater evil, you did this to us. As a physician, we also know the quality of coal that you're going to burn in these thermal plants, and it's going to be the same coal that you used in Turkey before, and your burning technology is going to be bad. We know that because that's all you've ever done. Now, look, all the time, you're on that stand and you're against everything, against everything. No, you've got solar power, God bless you, we call it health, but you shouldn't build those thermal plants there. Instead of doing that, make another solar power, build another plant, build another plant, and then we'll find our way. Now, you're going to build a port there, and you're going to cause all the seals and the capettas there to disappear, and because of that construction, a lot of seals have been killed, and they've been autopsied, and if you'd like, I can give you their reports. Because of the coals that were to be moved there, I've examined the earlier thermal power plant areas. The coals that are going to blow up will make all our children there asthma, then turn them into cancer. As a pediatrician, I warn you, these are great plagues. I've warned you before, I've warned you, and I will continue to warn you as long as I can. So, come on, give up this love of thermal power plant and cement factory, at least in our area, don't get no ahs here. It turns out you're going to continue to use fossils in energy production, and you're going to use them in an expensive way, and then you're going to make HES. We don't oppose HES, Mr. Secretary, just as long as you don't do it in a way that causes salting of the soil there, don't do HES at the beginning, don't do HES in places that aren't appropriate. And then you were sober, and you gave up plants under a certain megawatt, under a certain power, to do HES. But look, I'm going to give you an example, and understand how bad you've done for nature, and your eyes are so black that you don't know anything. It's Bingol. Mr. Minister of Bingöl was just here, Cevdet Yilmaz, and I was hoping he'd be here, but I hope he's listening. In Bingol, you will build four HES on the Murat River, which is made, and a railroad passes through here. It begins from Elaziğ Palu, and goes to Bingol and Mush, and there is a railway in the Palu-Young-Mush line, Mr. Minister, in the middle of your HES dam. You're doing it with a do-it-and-do, and this railroad has got to be dumped in some way, so it needs to be replaced, and because of this job, we've repeatedly, over and over cried out that you've damaged our country, 640 million, 640 trillion dollars, and we've made a research motion, we've made a question proposal, it's not enough, we've gone to Bingöl, and you've stopped it. Now, I'm asking this criminal complaint, and he says, "We sent it to the prosecutor." We're looking for Ankara, he's gone here, he's gone here... there's no result of the lawsuit we've been suing for a year and a half, but you know what, Mr. Secretary: You've been up as a government, you've tried to destroy our President of Bingley. Because I went there with our President of Bingol County, and I did these studies with him, and we filed the charges together. You couldn't get your teeth into me, you went and ended the business life of the President of the Republican People's Party of Bingol. First the fines fell. It's all documented, Minister. I've got it all. I also spoke to Cevdet Yilmaz Minister. Every minute, every step of the way, you've got a ticket for everything this guy's done. In total judgment, the vast majority of these sentences will be cancelled because they're really wrong. It wasn't enough, you destroyed this man's business. You can't end up destroying us. We're not in this for the money, we're in this for the love of Turkey. When there's corruption there, not when there's injustice, but if you destroy one mayor, 81 mayors, you'll still get nothing. I'm warning you from here: don't do anything against the law, against the law. Don't threaten us like this because we're exposing your corruption, you can't end us like this. We go one, I swear, not a thousand, 10 grand, 100 grand, 100 million. So, please, just think about it and give up these illegal practices immediately, and please apologize to our President of Bingol. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0049par0060	Thank you. Negotiations of Article 1 have been completed. I submit the first item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Serindağ will speak on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0050par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'm going to express my opinion on the matter, but I'm going to try to address some other issues with your permission. We support any cooperation between Turkey and Azerbaijan. Therefore, and we declare that we will vote positively for this agreement. Now, lawmakers, of course, this kind of agreement has to be safe for the region to have the desired outcome. If there's no security, you can't do anything the way you want to do it. However, everyone knows that as a result of AKP's foreign policy, with AKP's foreign policy, and with its contribution, our region has become a very problematic and risky area for security, and Turkey is most affected by this distrust. As a result of this insecurity, as a result of the wrong policy you've been following, 49 of our citizens, government officials, their families are being held hostage in Iraq right now. Now, let me take you back a little bit. At that time, Turkish Airlines shuts down its own office and evacuates its staff. The community schools evacuate their staff, but somehow the consulate is not evacuated, and it is rumored that there is no evacuation on a phone that leaves. Dear friends, this must be presented by the government as grounds for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the House is being ignored. I'll give you another example: he's just been in the press, he's in the House of Commons, the British Prime Minister at the NATO summit, he's informing members of the House of Commons about what was said at the summit, and the House of Commons answers his doubts about it, his questions, his questions, his questions, his questions, but I'm sure you don't know what the President is talking to, who he's talking to, who we can only learn from the press, and, of course, we can't ask, just because we've learned from the statements to the newspapers, and I'm sure as we don't know how we don't know, you don't even know what part of the government is talking, and they don't even know what't know what't know what't know what't know. Now, another example of this is Obama calling for a meeting of opposition leaders regarding the intervention in ISIS and informing them of the details of the plan, and then stating that he will enlighten and inform the public about it. However, you're banning the issue, so we don't get any information about it. This is an example of democracy, unfortunately, not being internalized by your government. Now, if you'd like to continue this ISIS matter. Look, what the new Prime Minister says about ISIS: the ISID may look like a radical, terroristic structure, but the participants are Turks, Arabs, Kurds. The structure there has given rise to a large reaction on the great front of previous discontents, angers. So you know what he's saying, I repeat, the ISID can be seen as a radical, terrorist structure, but......... the terrorist group doesn't call it "terrorism" or "terrorism." Now, you might say that we have 49 hostages there, so our hands are tied. You couldn't really say that without the hostages. Dear MPs, not only are there 49 of our citizens a hostage, but Turkey a hostage, where you left Turkey a hostage. So, you need to give up and review your foreign policy as soon as possible, and we've said it over and over again, and we've given you questions, and we've said, "Look, this has been in the press. In Gaziantep, it is said that ISIS has cell homes, so stay on the subject. It is said that there are foundations and associations that provide employees for ISIS. But, you didn't take it to the fort, now it's coming out, and it's in the press. We said: "There is the center of the light, they use it as a logistical base, they use it as a center." But you didn't listen again, and thus you made us neighbours with ISIS, not Iraq. Another issue: schools are open, opening, I think the 1st graders have started going to school, dear friends. Schools have been opened, but you've been opening up with some troubles, and you've been perperizing people. As a result of this basic education and mid-school transition exam, a situation was created so that students were forced to register at schools 100km away, and some of my dear friends, some of the students, started going barefoot to school. Look, it's been in the press, it's going barefoot, and the TV shows it. These kids go to school, you brag. These children go barefoot to school, but with 600-700 trillion expenses -- now, of course, Mr. President -- he builds a palace, a palace, a palace, 700 trillions. It costs 450 trillion to buy an additional plane for existing aircraft. Yes, the children go barefoot to school, but you spend 700 trillion on the current President's residence, building a palace, spending 450 trillion on a plane. Doesn't that bleed your conscience, dear friends? If that doesn't bleed your conscience, I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0051par0076	That's where the country is.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0050par0077	What else are you doing? You're terrorizing the country, fear. In the end, a sports club accused its fans of overthrowing the government and forced them to face life imprisonment on your watch.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0052par0078	They've got balls!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0050par0079	Dear friends, what kind of government is this that the 35-man Bazaar Group overthrows this government? One captain, two lieutenants are taking down this government! What kind of government is this? I mean, you were a powerful government. Is that even possible? Clearly, dear friends, this congregation has scared the hell out of you. But look, I'm running out of time, so I'll say a few more words. Look, the Minister of Justice says to this Prime Minister: "This HSYK elections have made the Laughing Community very effective in the HSYK, so we should take measures on this. Do you know what the Prime Minister at the time is saying? Our qiblah is the same. They won't hurt us, he says. My dear friends, the government is responsible for all negatives in Turkey. Look, if there's going to be an operation in that community, an operation must first be performed on the prime minister of time, the government of time, and those who share that conspiracy. No operation that hasn't been done to them can actually be concluded as an operation. So, what we're saying is that your intention is not to prevent illegal formations, but rather to prosecute those who touch you, those who lead you to justice. Look, Davutoglu says no prime minister will ever be able to answer in court again. There is no such thing in the legal state. In the state of law, both prime ministers and others must be accountable when it is necessary to face justice, I thank you, all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0053par0084	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Secretary, you asked for a promise. Here's your ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0087	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to begin again by welcoming your delegation with respect and love. First of all, I wanted to show you a document to avoid misinformation. The intergovernmental agreements, I repeat, are signed by ministers, and with the signature of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Mr. İlham Aliyev, along with their testimony, signed by both me and Mr. Natik Aliyev, along with the signature of my esteemed colleague. The host agreement was signed between the company and our government, and the agreement that we're hosting, and the agreement that we're talking about now, and the agreement, as you can see from the texts in front of each of you, was signed by the ministers again. Now, dear friends, each of us in this regard, of course, say the same things as an alliance: this project is useful; it will strengthen Turkey's geography, its strategy, its everything. Of course, I agree with this interpretation: a runt job, just a profit job, not just an economic feasibility. Among the main reasons for this is a structure that deepens the strategic importance and structure of this project, particularly the emotional bonds of the two countries, strengthens, and deepens the brotherhood's law with its entire economy. In that sense, hopefully, by the end of the year 2018, we will have completed and completed our work on Turkey's supply security in natural gas. Dear friends, of course, from the words of our MPs, we once again understand that energy resources need to be diversified. Of course, there's a very clear, almost all energy sources in the world -- there's sun, there's wind, there's geothermal -- there's coal, there's coal, there's imported coal, there's nuclear, there's every one of them. Now, how does that help each other? What is our country's contribution to the environment, its shortcomings, its threats, its opportunities, a little bit of them, if you like. Last year, in 2013, with rain regimes and rain regimes, one-quarter of every electricity produced by Turkey was obtained from water, from HES. From time to time, you know, there are those who oppose the HESEs, and there are those who oppose them for certain reasons. This year, we see that almost 19 percent of the rain regimes have fallen to 20 percent of the meteorological data that each of us has seen. So each of the five consumed units of electricity is going to be one of the water, so it's going to go down even further. The difference will be divided very seriously into other sources. What other sources? The resources we're counting are from natural gas, we've got wind, we've got other sources. In short, in four main units, let's compare the sun in the Conium-Karapınar to the nuclear plant in Akkuyu. Choosing one doesn't mean giving up the other, fellas. I'm saying we have to choose them both together. Why? The sun may not always be what we want. The sun in Turkey has 2,600 hours per year... 1,800 to 2,000 hours of sunlight in Turkey, that's the average.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0055par0092	Mr. Secretary, the time...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0093	Let me narrow it down a little bit. Look, there's one about the area he's covering. You run a nuclear power plant around 8,000 hours. You run the coal plant around 8,000 hours. Let's talk about the concrete project: We'll build the 3,000 megawatt solar plant at 60,000 acres in the Iconium Karapınar. This is the right project, and we thank you for your support. We'll make sure there's no farmland in 60,000 acres, no mera-skilling, no mera land, no nature beings, no culture beings. We're going to get about 6 billion kilowatts of time from here, within this clock. I mean, there's a little mistake in the account that I'd like to remind you of, and we'll get it at 13.3 cents. And the money that's going to be spent here is going to be around $6 billion. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to get six times that of electricity in nuclear, we're going to get about six times that of electricity, about 40 to 42 billion kilowatts per hour, about a quarter of the area that it covers. So, in one case, we're going to get 60,000 acres, 15,000 acres and 12,35 cents on the dollar, and let's say we're going to spend three times as much. When we compare all of this, there's an improvement in the nuclear advantage of 7 times -- I'm just saying from a technical point of view -- but we're starting because we believe that the sun will be right. You have to do the water, too.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0056par0097	Human health in particular...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0098	Of course, we'll consider the risks, the human factor. The human is ours, the health is ours, every single one of them is ours. Friends, half the world's 442 power plants, around 220 power plants, are installed in 3 countries; the United States, France and Japan. They're probably not countries that care less about human health than we do about freedom. I'm in favor of getting the public informed correctly. I also believe that these will be preferred as much as the right information, but I have to say, one of them is that nuclear power plants have no more import fuel than the others. From this point of view, the sun and rain, of course, are also obtained from these resources that God has given us to this country. But in the event that we've built nuclear power plants, we're going to import about 15 billion euros of less natural gas if each nuclear power plant has been activated -- $7.2 billion of today's money and unresponsored, friends. Because we will not use the nuclear plant we will build in place of the Ataturk Dam.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0057par0100	Let's do HES, HES. Look, there's Boyabat. He's beautiful.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0101	We will not use it for the HESE in Boyabat.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0057par0102	Let's do 10 more of those.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0103	Let's build 10 more Boyabat facilities, while Turkey is growing and expanding, and let's build a nuclear power plant.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0057par0104	New technology, new...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0058par0105	Let's not, Minister. Oh, come on, you'll get it.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0106	We need to set up a structure that will use advanced and state-of-the-art.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0058par0107	Japan has closed them all, Mr. Secretary, do you have any information? Germany's closing, too.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0108	Each accident poses a risk to ourselves, a threat. Let's put together the structure that will turn these threats into opportunity. Japan made a $40 billion difference in 2013, with $6.2 trillion in GDP.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0058par0110	Is it more important than human health? It doesn't matter if the kids have cancer.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0111	I don't mean the number that goes into energy, 40 billion dollars, just the money that goes into the difference. And of course, we have no difference to give them, and I would like to point out from this bench in particular, and I would like to say that Japan had to activate the nuclear power plants one by one, it had reduced 52 to zero, and it has now re-activated 13 of them.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0058par0112	He's shutting it all down now. He's closing them too, Mr. Secretary. He's closing them down to five.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0054par0113	From now on, this number will continue to increase. When? By getting more and more security systems on line. We need to construct the structure of the developing Turkey: a piece of nuclear, a piece of natural gas, more than renewable energy sources, more than local resources, more than coal, less than imported coal, we need to create Turkey's energy portfolio, and look, Turkey uses exactly twice as much energy as it did 12 years ago, and ten years later, it will use twice as much energy as each of us will. I'd like to thank you once again for your support in the development of all energy sources. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0059par0118	Thank you. There's a question in the QA section. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0060par0121	Thank you. Sir, now, the universities have begun. Every day, five or six students phone me, and we can't find a home. Now he's in so much trouble, these students. What measures is the government taking? Look, today, one of Turkey's most important problems is the youth problem, which means young people start college, no dorms. Where will these people go? And there's the poor family kids from the village. First, let the government give us something to figure out. There are also decisions from the State Department that subcontractors on these highways can't work as subcontractors, they can't work as permanent workers. We've said so many times here, how are they going to solve the problem of these subcontractors? Let them explain this, the citizens are calling us every day. My brother, you're not talking about this problem. They say, "Let's find a solution. So here, okay, let's say some things, but in this case, let's make a judgment call...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0061par0126	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0062par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you gave me good numbers, it was all money. No matter how much money we spend, it's no more important than a child having cancer. Today, the cancer rate of the nuclear plants in Germany has increased by 2.2km in radius, although no leak has been detected; one. Two: we're growing up, we need energy... You're quite right. If you use the sun enough, you can get exactly four times the energy we're going to use by 2050, not 2023. They've got accounts, I haven't been in long enough, and I don't want to put too much pressure on the House. Accounts are set. When you give up the nuclear power plant, then I'll button up in front of you, greet you with respect. And until then, I'm never gonna do that.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0063par0130	Will you answer, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0064par0131	Yeah. Mr. President, dear friends, of course, we're all here under this roof. Whether you're just supporting the sun or not, it's okay if you're not a fan of the nuclear power plant.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0065par0133	No, we support the wind, and the HESS, and the proper lignite, as long as you do it properly.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0064par0134	So let me put it this way: even though you support renewable energy sources, even if you don't support the nuclear power plant, I'm going to button up in front of you. So -- as a friendship law -- we're all here as lawmakers. Of course, not all of us are expected to approve the nuclear power plant equally. We've done risk analysis of all of this. You're a doctor, you're from the medical world, of course you know that better than we do. The radiation of a human body in the footage of an MRI if he wants a CT before a chemo therapy, more than ten years you've been living next to a nuclear power plant. I'm re-electing my sentence: Once you get an MRI, and it's very cut, when you get that sensitivity from those high MRIs, especially if your pulse is over 80, the amount of radiation you receive is 2.5 to 3 times higher. Under the light of all this, if you lived next to the nuclear power plant for ten years, you wouldn't get any more radiation from that MRI. Of course, every time you play with each of these, geography, that's when the risk actually goes up. From this angle, I'm not saying anything. Of course, our congressman told me, it's about housing. Dear friends, our Ministry of Youth and Sports is working very hard on this with the Credit and Homes Association. We've seen the latest developments in particular change the design for housing in the dorms. There's been a lot of hard work in some places, but we have to provide for all our students' needs for housing. It's about the highways, the subcontractor... along with the last law we called the Tasheron law, there was, of course, a judicial decision on the affairs of the highways outside of the main work elements. Which is the actual business, which is not, and which is a different decision to define. Of course, we'll see that clearly in the future. I thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0066par0139	It's been three years, there's a verdict.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0067par0140	Mr. Yilmaz... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0068par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we've been informed publicly that the mine company, which killed 301 workers in Soma....was also responsible for the construction of the residences, where ten workers were killed in Istanbul....and that both of them had been audited by a company called NCA.C.A. If there's such heavy negligence in both of them, it's not neglect anymore, it's almost intentional negligence, do you intend to do any sanctions on this NCA company, the audit company, the business security company? What's the progress on that? That's what I want to learn from you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0067par0144	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0069par0145	Yes, dear friends, of course, we lost 10 of our brothers in the elevator disaster after the accident, when we lost 301 workers in Soma. Every one of us is sad. Again, we offer our condolences to their families, and ask God's mercy. There's a study of business security, especially our Department of Labor, which, you know, has been done. As forensic investigations continue, administrative investigations continue, there is also a study of our institutions, especially among our employees' health and safety inspectors. The fact that this is the same company, of course, would draw attention to that company, but it's particularly related to the recent elevator crash, was it for technical reasons, was there a problem using administrative initiative, each of which will be shared with the public after those reviews. Of course, the audit company is no exception.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0067par0147	Thank you. Congressmans, on Article 2...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0070par0149	Mr. President, I have a request; we have four minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0067par0150	Is this the second time you've been in the system?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0070par0151	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0067par0152	I thought it wasn't deleted, so... Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0070par0154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to extend it, so it's not right to talk about what you're not really about. MRI, because it doesn't emit X-rays, you know, it's magnetic. The people who get X-rays go on purpose, willing to take that ray because it's more useful than it is. So if the locals want the nuclear power plant, do it. I'm telling you, come, put the chest down, put your referendum on it. I'm speaking as a member of the district, and the locals there, I'm claiming that at least 60 percent of the AKP people will say no to the nuclear power plant. Keep Chernobyl, Fukushima, on the one side of your mind. That's if these things go normal, but God forbid you can't handle it or anyone else when there's an accident. And don't answer if you don't want to, because otherwise I'll talk too.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0071par0156	It's not a question, look, it's a suggestion; don't answer it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0070par0157	It was a suggestion, just a suggestion.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit03spe0072par0158	Thank you. Negotiations on Article 2 have been completed. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. No one wants to speak on the third article. The negotiations are complete. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes whether or not the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices, those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes for an open vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan of the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline is in accordance with the Agreement of the Covenant. Number of votes used: 233 [[x]] So the bill was adopted and legalized. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0072par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 139th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Under the recommendation of the Council of Counsellors, we cannot begin negotiations with Kurıkkale MP No. 641, on the Law Proposal and the Justice Commission Report. We will now begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, in favour of ratifying the Preferenced Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 628 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the whole bill. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0073par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Congress, I salute you all. The relationship of the states with their neighbours is the most important factor in its activation in their territory. In particular, the closeness of governments in the field of cultural civilization and in the field of culture is even more important and plays a crucial role in establishing peace in the region. The adoption of the Preferenced Trade Agreement for the development of trade relations between the Republic of Turkey and Iran would be an important step for further development of trade, which has not developed with various problems in the two countries over the years. As a matter of fact, after the establishment of the Islamic Republic of Iran, their relationship with the Republic of Turkey was not in a very good position. But relations with Iran from the 1994s to the 95s have become much better. As a matter of fact, as a person who has traveled almost every region of Iran in the framework of a number of projects that we've done with Iran in the time of my Turkish historical institution, I can tell you that Iran is really a very old state -- like the Persians, like the Sasanis, was built on a very ancient geography, and we see that in a period of about a thousand years since then, Iran is home to Turkish states as a place for Turkish states. In 1925, the last period -- until the transition of the Absabir Dynasty -- the Pehlevis -- was, as I said, a situation that really reflected their relationship with the Karakoyans, Seljucans, Safavi, Safari, and the Persian history of this period, from the period of the Safari, especially since the Safavi -- including Nadir Shah -- is a state of Ottoman relations with the Ottoman Empire until today. So much so that even recently, the delegations from Iran will come in large numbers, or the delegations from Turkey to Iran will go out in large numbers, in fact, depend on this traditional cooperation. As such, delegations from Iran are seen to have been paid for by the Ottoman State as soon as the Ottoman State entered the Turkish borders and all the costs of the embassy delegation were paid by the Ottoman State, as well as by the Ottoman State. In fact, it's a sign of competition beyond a close relationship. Its competitiveness continued until 1639, and the borders drawn by the Kasr-a-Smurf Agreement have reached our present day, without fail or decay. In this regard, there has been no problem between Iran and Turkey, for about three hundred and thirty-five years, with the smallest border issue or competition between the two states. By the time we reached the near term, the trade volume between Turkey and Iran was up to $22 billion in 2012, but about $5 billion of this is made up of precious mines, such as the gold trade, the removal and delivery. A year later, in 2013, this rate was reduced to $14.6 billion, but surely the embargos imposed by the European Union and the U.S. state were also important because of Iran's nuclear work. In fact, the foreign trade deficit between Turkey and Iran reached $6.2 billion. Here, this trade agreement is planned to increase the volume of this trade to up to $30 billion. When we went to Iran with our Parliament Speaker, last spring, in fact, we saw that in our talks with our businessmen there, our trade volume with Iran would rise to over 30 billion by just completing money transfer issues. As a matter of fact, in our relations with Iran, despite the fact that its massive weight is natural gas, in other areas, it can also play a very important role in the testing production trade. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've made a brief summary. In fact, in 2014, we have a volume of commerce that exceeds $12 billion. The natural gas from Iran -- of course not an official number -- is taken as $490 per 1,000 cubic meter, which is 155 dollars higher than the natural gas we received from Azerbaijan, and $55 higher than the gas we received from Russia. I don't know exactly what Turkey has achieved in this regard, if you want to know, but here it's important that all of this trade, of course, is one of the most important things that brings the two countries closer together, but Turkey and Iran have a strategic obligation to stay close together. Because when we look at the situation in the Middle East, Iran has an enormous value for Turkey and Turkey for Iran, which is almost an insurance policy. The closeness of these two countries will be able to eliminate or at least maintain a certain level the ambitions of states such as the Middle East, America, or Russia. In other words, the main door for Turkey's opening to Central Asia via Iran is Iran, via the highway. Iran, therefore, is of great importance to Turkey in this regard. Especially if you take into account what happened in the Middle East -- Syria, Iraq, Palestine, Israel, or Egypt -- the current events in these areas have wiped out the exports of Turkey to this region, but most importantly, there is no way to ignore the fact that there is a religious power struggle in the region, as well as the eradication of exports. The influence of ISIS today on non-Sunni Muslims, and even though it has no place in Islam, it can once be seen as equivalent to the view of the Vehhabi, which the Ottoman State was actually fighting in the 19th century, in the view of the Vehhabi cult, in the view of Islam. As a matter of fact, Vehhabi, the great grandfather of Suud El Faysal, who was fought by the Ottoman Empire, was one of the most important men in the region to rise up and fight the Ottoman state. In the same way, people who have been to that area in particular, who have been on a pilgrimage have surely seen a structure where even the graves of the Saharas have been leveled. Beyond that, you can also read in history that the Saudis have given up on the responses from the Islamic world at a time in the past when they were planning to even remove the tomb of our Prophet. They have such hostility towards graves. As a matter of fact, what ISIS is doing today is the same. They have emerged as representatives of an understanding that finds mosques flashy and blows them up, especially in the Shia mosques, that, given the fact that there is a more cynical, flashy mosque in its interior, its location, destroys them, but on the other hand, bombes the shrines and destroys them. In fact, ISIS is a representative of an idea and understanding that we can consider as the cause of gangrene in Islam, a representative of an understanding that puts Islam into turmoil in the Islamic world and upsets the Islamic world. Although this organisation is organised by states such as the United States, Israel, and Turkey has helped them, it is important to consider this: In fact, it is true that ISIS does not take action against Israel and is in action only for Shiite Muslims. As a matter of fact, after ISIS's progress towards Baghdad and after its strength in Syria, after it had acquired its territory in Iraq, and had confidence in it, only the United States took a stand against ISIS. Until then, ISIS has played an important role in somehow connecting the oil fields in the hands of El Maliki. In this framework, Iran is a state fighting against ISIS. On the other hand, Iran had a crucial role in Turkey's fight against terrorism. In the same way, Syria had a very important role in later times, even if it was not in the beginning. In fact, Turkey's cooperation with countries such as Syria, Iraq, Iran -- this was also riveted with the Baghdad Pact -- in the time of Ataturk -- would actually be a policy that played a crucial role in establishing peace in the Middle East. In fact, when the 61st government was founded and Mr. Davutoglu first started as Foreign Minister, his policy, which he called a zero problem, began with a very correct policy. Because of trade agreements and visas with Syria, there was actually a crucial step in the Middle East that neither America nor Europe expected nor Israel expected. This step suddenly began to be criticised by Westerners and even led to Turkey's definition of a state coming out of its own system. In fact, Turkey was sitting in its own main place from its exit, with this policy and, as a result, from Turkey to Syria, Syria to Turkey, there was a great deal of trade and human entry. On the other hand, I went to Syria at the time of Syria -- which was almost a love of Turkey -- and I saw Turkish flags in closed markets, Damascus, etc., all over the shops, but it turned out to be strange, and why this policy about Syria had suddenly changed, and Syria had become enemy brothers with Syria. Assad had actually started to follow a policy in which Turkey looked up to him. I honestly had no interest in politics at that time, and when you went to Halep, I went to a conference at Aleppo University on the location and importance of Syria and the importance of Turkey in the Middle East, and it was interesting that at that time the Turkmen who were under pressure asked me in Turkish questions at my conference, such an opportunity was granted, and when you went to Halep, in the cafeterias at the bottom of the walls of Aleppo, I had witnessed many Turks talking to you in Turkish language. In the same way, in the car that I rented, I went to the castle of Caber, where there was Hama, and Humus, and Damascus, and Tartus, and on the other day there was also Rakka, and Deyrizor, and the Rezidentura of Solomon Shah. I wasn't stopped on the road once in my own car. With a country so close, suddenly, in a day's time, it's probably necessary to evaluate the meaning of being an enemy. This policy is one of the most important factors in Turkey's policy, its wrong policy, its following policy today in Israel's bombing of Gaza, its bombing of Palestine. For the most important power, military power, land power, was the Syrian force that stopped Israel. Because Egypt, Syria, Iraq, and Libya were the states that fought against Israel, Israel was now free to play horses because they were imprisoned in their own internal turmoil. In fact, it was also one of the reasons why the radar station at the Globecik, which was built in Turkey in exchange for Iran. I think Turkey is the most important peacemaker in the Middle East, the compromiser in the Middle East. Even today, Turkey is the only country that can end the turmoil in Syria; again, it is the only country that can end the turmoil in Iraq; again, it is the only country in Egypt, which can end the turmoil in Libya, but it must give up its policies and accept its wrongs. Syria's security is Turkey's insurance, Turkey's survival as Syria's only state. If only Turkey, in its policy, could move towards a new unit that includes Russia, including the Turkish republics, including Azerbaijan, Georgia, Iran, Iraq, Syria. Look, people from the furthest corners of the world, governments, states from 10,000 kilometers away, are trying to dominate these areas of energy centers in the Middle East. In fact, we need to think about this: what percentage of Earth's energy does the Middle East generate? What percentage of world oil comes out of the Middle East and Central Asia? Believe me, 70 percent of them are coming out of this area, but in the meantime, I want to say that the United States is a country that spends 26 percent of the world's oil. Again, the countries of the European Union are countries that use 20 per cent of the world's oil. So 46 percent of the world's oil is consumed by the United States and by the European Union countries. So it's essential for these states to dominate areas of oil that are not enough in their own country. But it's not in Turkey's best interest to have a policy followed by their direction in the geography next to us. Thus, in this region, Turkey is obliged to make this trade agreement with Iran in the same way as the other states I mentioned. No one can say that the process that starts with economic relations does not affect the political process. Thus, when a structure begins from here and goes politically towards co-operation with these countries, it is not incumbent to establish the Aurasian Union, as in the European Union. Thus, a unity in such geography will bring about an environment in which there can be averting internal conflicts and preventing many competitions because of the situation within itself and internal dynamics. So think of it this way: What will Armenia do in the face of such unity, which occupied 20 percent of Azerbaijan's territory? He will guarantee his own future if he transfers his lands to Azerbaijan to ensure his own future. Therefore, since there will be no conflict within the unity countries and it will be resolved through the agreement, the Middle East will also avoid turmoil. But that's not a hard thing to do. The countries of the European Union, for your faith, do nothing but break each other from the Middle Ages. They are under various sects such as the Wars of the Thirty Years, the Wars of the Hundred Years, and then the First World War, then the Second World War, then Protestant War, some Catholic, some Anglican, some Lutherism, etc. For example, you can't see a Catholic and a Protestant from the same religion, they're under different religions, and they're more hostile to each other than Muslims. When you look at the issue within this framework, they can become a unit, and if they can be found under a roof, there is no question that there is no unity in the geography that I refer to as the world of Islam. Thus, in this framework, it is not in this way that this agreement with Iran is developed, but in our greatest hope. In this regard, I say we support this agreement with Iran as the National Movement Party, and I wish the agreement to be successful and to benefit both countries. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0074par0034	Thank you. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0037	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you all. Turkey-Iran relations have been going on for many years and are still warm. The most important developments are happening in the Middle East, and as these developments take place in the Middle East, we see that the role of Iran, along with Egypt, has become increasingly prominent in the Middle East, against the Assad regime, which began with Syria in the Middle East, and after the ISIS incident in Iraq. At this stage, Turkey's preferential trade agreement is too late. So good morning. Where have you been so far, O State, with such an ancient neighbouring country, with historical ties, with the Farsi of Iran, Azerbaijan, Kurdish citizens, Belucis, and these historical ties? So you've never seen the fact that in your memory, in the district of Ozalp of Van, in a border trade, in a trade of animals, Ahmet Arif....domdom bullet........ I want to remind you today that over 100 people have died in your government's border trade, Iran, for the trade in diesel, for a can of diesel in the last year. In fact, I'd like to remind you of something else, which is interesting: there's the Upper Tulgalı village of Uzalp, where 240 people live, friends, nobody gets shot, nobody gets shot in this border village. Right at the border, the other side of the border, the relative, when he goes and trades, he shoots soldiers from here, Turkey, on the other hand, soldiers from Iran, and 11 of our citizens have lost their lives in this village in just one last year. It's a terrible thing, isn't it? Border trade... So, if everyone's taking bullets for a can of diesel in this 240-population village, if Roboski's out there every day, is that okay? I do. So, is this problem involved in this trade agreement? No, guys. There are facilitations, the two countries mutually removed a pen that will give a tariff discount to Iran on 140 agricultural products -- the six-period tariff position. They're agricultural friends. So, tomatoes, zucchini, eggplant, grapes, oranges, figs, nuts, beets... Now, it's a matter of a tariff discount and quota increase from Iran. From Iran to Turkey's six-year tariff, 125 industrial products -- I'm pulling your attention -- 125 industrial products from Iran to Turkey -- is there anything wrong with that?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0076par0043	No, the opposite, from us to there.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0044	Now, look, Iran has been determined to give Turkey a price reduction in 125 industrial products in the six-period tariff position. Now, you know, when we took natural gas, the Minister of Energy would have told us that he doesn't want cash, Iran, he wants gold... how did those payments go, do you have any idea? How were those payments made, fellas? Anyway, I'm not going to get into that deep subject, but I'd like to say that now that ISIS is being loaded into oil refinerys in Iraq, Iraq is now forced to buy gas and diesel from Turkey and Batman, and in the region on the Iranian-Iraq border, the gas trade, the gas trade, the gas trade, the gas trade has increased, so it's conjunctural. Now, here, you need to see this well: Now, how many border crossings do we have between Turkey and Iran? There is the Gürbulak Border Gate, and it is an important door to Iran through Eastwhiteite, and it is from the east; it is from Van Özalp. It is also one of the busiest gates in Kapaköy; there is the Esendere Border Gate in Hakari Yüksekova; and there is also Boralan. There are no Iğdır MPs here, Sinan would know if it was closed, I know it's closed, they'd know better. I mean, there are three border crossings, guys. Now, I'd like to ask the government: there were 2,000 soldiers in Roboski, where 34 of our citizens were killed. Because the oppressed were using it as their only way out of Shengal, there were 2,000 soldiers in the process of this solution, in case there was a can of diesel or other smuggling with mules. One, the persecutions are being prevented; two, there is an endless incident due to the border trade. So the same thing is happening in Roboski, it's happening in Shemdinli, it's happening in Yüksekova, it's happening in Van, it's happening in Iğdır, it's happening in Pain. Now, fellas, there's something wrong with politics here, there's something wrong with detection. Okay, you make these products quota, you take them down, I get it. But, look, Turkey, as you can see, I counted here, there are three border crossings with Iran; there are now Habur Border Gate with Iraq; there are another one with it; there will be two in Uludere, there will be two; there will be many doors with Syria; there is already a situation in Syria. There are doors to Bulgaria and Greece. There are several hundred thousand citizens who live there when you take the population of villages around the border, when you take out their settlements and dwellings. They were made a headshot during the Autonomous period for border trade. Today, the border trade is in Edirne, Greece to Edirne, Edirne to Greece; two days, on weekends they can pass without money; for how many dollars can they shop? So, brother, don't you have any politics other than firing bullets in this border trade? So, you're going to shoot your compatriot for the smallest, $100 worth of goods? Is that the only solution? I've seen it. I went to the border there, and a pasha seemed interesting to me. I'll shoot you. He said I'll kill you. I said, "Why do you shoot?" This is not the land of Turkey, he said. Well, if it's not the land of Turkey, whose station is this? So, why are you going to shoot me? You crossed the border, I'll shoot you. You've been to your station, you've been there, you've set up a police station on the hill, you're sitting on it, you're getting off with your helicopter. The deputy of the nation is coming, and you say, "You've crossed the border." Where's the border? That's Hezil Tea. He set up the outpost beyond the tea at Bilican Hill. Bilican Hill is in Kurdistan territory. He's gone, he's set up a police station in Kurdistan territory. Paşa's coming down the hill in a helicopter to that station, he's not going down. I'll shoot you when the deputy's gone. The border is honor. You've crossed the border. Paşa crossed the other side with his station, tank, helicopter and cannon. You guys need to change that mentality. You're still saying... you're saying that we're related, we're members of the same religion. You're saying that we're members of the same religion, but the mentality is militant. So as long as you don't change that militant mentality and you don't bring this border trade to a certain dollar level -- 100, 500, whatever -- you can't solve this problem, and every day there's a problem. It's a radical solution. We've told the government many times. There's no other solution, guys. Now you're going to say that from a trade contract between the two great states to a border trade. Yes, border trade. It hurts here, people die. Still, those crime bullets... people have been killed since the muğlalı. It's the 21st century. Is it ever so hard for the House to kill people? Why kill your own citizen because he's a smuggler? In the village of Ozalp of Van, a smuggler from Iran on the holiday day is on that side of the village, the Iğdırlı Turk of Azerbaijan, which you call from Iran. The Kurdish relative is on this side, the continuation of the tribe is on one side. They are all related, but they are all related, even if they are drawn from the name of Kasr. Now, when there is a meeting between the two governments to ensure the right to live, this is not discussed; is that understanding possible? Well, the roadway of Silk Road is the road that leads to Iran through Bethüşşebap, after Şırnak, the road from Erzincan, the road from Zigana to be merged. Why was this project stopped? It stopped, why? This is an active road trade...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0077par0050	The contract for the Zigana road is under way.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0051	From Zigana, let's go down to Erzincan.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0077par0052	There's a $1.5 million bid going on right now.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0053	So Zigana-Erzincan, from Erzincan, has to be reached via Siirt through Iran. To do that, you have to cross the Kasrik Strait in Şırnak, so that doesn't happen when you don't cross the Kasrik Strait. Now, I'd like to end here by pointing out that, friends, there's a lesson to be learned. Between Iran and Iraq, there was an eight-year war between 1980 and 1988. It's quick to forget, so you have to check the memories. One million people are dead, guys, one million people. 150 billion dollars -- I mean, global figures -- was spent. There were eight years of Iran-Iraq war, Watergate scandals, all sorts of things that happened, but then again in the 1990s, there was what happened in Iraq today, and there was an ISIS that gave birth to what happened today. There is talk of a coalition of nuclear countries founded on ISIS, and Iran is making a move here, and it says: "I am fighting against ISIS." Is Turkey here now abstaining because of the concern that 49 officers are in ISIS's hands, or is it really because it is not politically clear? Let me make it very clear here that the President of Religious Affairs has already explained it, and so does everyone else. If such power is not under control, remember that Turkey is the greatest target. In Kobani, in Rojava, in the attack on Kurds... we've been telling you in this House for three years; we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't make you listen. They've been attacking Kurds in Kobani for three years, Kurdish people are standing there and a people are resisting, they're the only ones who resist. When they resisted at Shengal, the YPG went out of Jazeera Canton, protecting the people of Shengal, the Turkmen, and the Kurds of Yezidi. They're on their way now. If we do not find these serious problems in place and control them, then Turkey, unfortunately, will not be left behind at a time when Egypt and Iran are moving to power in the Middle East, but will be in danger as soon as it is on the list of countries that help terrorist organisations. Some may not see the danger. Look, this is a very serious threat. Then there'll be no more economics, no more trade, no more bilateral relations. So we need to talk about this in a very healthy way. Foreign policy is not developed on the Shii-Sunni axis, on the ideologies and sectarian axis, and is not put on the rail. That's not in any foreign policy. But the fact that the foreign policy has been placed on the religious axis in recent years suggests that my brother, a Hanefi-Shafi-Haşafi sect, ISIS de Selefi, on the other side there are Shiites, there are Ezids, there are Suryans, there are Turmen Who gives it to you? Where does the water from this mill come from? They say, "Katar. " And Saudi Arabia began to squeal when he stepped on his tail. So it's said that Turkey also provides logistical support, which is said to be supported from its diet to its security. Now, our humble citizens are entering from Uludere, needing a bowl of soup. We're on a test against humanity, we're on a test. I mean, Turkey, of course, once in its 91 migration, welcomed hundreds of thousands of them, now embraces 1.5 million Syrians. Of course, we'll welcome Ezidi, who comes from there, Arab, Turkmen, whoever it is... the size of this country is here, the dignity of this country is at this point, the ownership of this country is at this point. If you're going to establish your history, if you're going to strategize a thousand years of strategy in the coming period, here are the doors: let's get down from Iğdır, from Georgia, from the border with Armenia, from the border to Africa, we have to live with the Kurds in this geography all the time. We have to live, as relatives, as relatives, as Kurds, Turks, Turks, Arabs, so we have to create the law. Turkey must play a leading and effective role in the creation of this law. If he plays this pioneer and influential role, economics, trade, social and political relations will develop, otherwise there will be no improvement. Because, remember, ISIS has come to the Shah Ismail Temple. ISIS came to Kobani, which is within 10km of Turkey; they established their headquarters in Ceylanpınar, near Akchakale, and established their headquarters in Antwerp. Look, when they attacked the Shengal, their distance was 20 kilometers [20 km]. When they attacked Tuzhurmatou, they were within 30 kilometers of the Turkmen region, and the missiles in their hands, the weapons in their hands, were capable of hitting them from where they were. But the forces of the YPG, which predicted it, were able to leave Derek district across the street from Cizre and stop ISIS as the first force to reach Şengal, from Derek district. Again, the HPG guerrillas who went from Kandil to Mahmur, where 15,000 of our citizens were refugees, the 15,000 citizens of the Republic of Turkey who were leaving Turkey, and when ISIS attacked there, they took them safely from there and took their fighters there and fought with ISIS and took them back from ISIS. Now, if we don't analyze these realities very well, we won't be able to see the next period in international relations and trade. If we see this, look, believe me, Turkey will open up, Turkey-Iraq relations will develop with the new government. If we develop friendly relations in Syria, we will come to a very different point. We can't accept the government, the state, the understanding, the government, when we can open the way for Turkey, when we can build politics on it, but we can't accept it, it's our reaction. If we can't all help this Turkey together, if we can't get a cup of food for our Ezidi citizens, who were kidnapped and sold like slaves in Şengal. We'll be there for him, the other way, guys.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0078par0061	You're shitting me!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0062	How?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0078par0063	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0064	What does what have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0078par0065	Who's hosting the losers here now?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0066	Our local municipalities.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0079par0067	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0068	Can you tell me who else is interested in all of our municipal organizations?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0080par0069	You're shitting me!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0070	How many trucks of your AK PARTY have sent help?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0081par0071	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0072	How many AK PARTY municipalities have sent trucks to help, go out and talk to them, and come to the stand.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0081par0073	Mr. Kaplan, thank you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0074	Come on, come on, come on, come talk, you can't talk like that. Come talk to me.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0081par0075	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0075par0077	How many trucks did you send, how many tents did your municipalities send? Tell me, AK PARTY people, humanity, honor, bride, come out, talk, talk, easy, stand here.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0081par0078	Mr. Kaplan, please... Compromising a Preferenced Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran The approval of the "Preferenced Trade Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran" signed in Tehran on 29 January 2014 was approved. Ramazan Kerim Özkan will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1, Burdur MP.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0082par0084	You don't mind disrespecting me. That's a shame. You need to apologize, you need to apologize. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0081par0085	Yes, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0082par0086	Don't be shy. Shame on you! Human drama, genocide, mass murder, talk.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0087	Mr. President, Dear Representatives, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0082par0088	Don't you have any? You're not reacting.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0084par0089	Mr. Kaplan, you spoke for 20 minutes. Okay...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0090	Now, that's a long story. My fellow agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, water products engineers, land engineers, zootechnical engineers and technicians, there was a good position for you here. Our Minister of Finance was here again, and our Minister of Agriculture was here, but I want to make that clear because these days, all the MPs, all the staff in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, are being discussed. But we're making a trade deal here, Mr. Secretary. We're showing our weakness here. Look what we'll buy from Iran, what we'll sell to Iran, what we'll buy, what I'll share with you. Our commercial volume in Iran is $20 billion in 2012, we sell $2 billion, we buy $18 billion. 15 billion dollars last year, and we're 4... 4 in the other one, we're selling $2 billion in this one, we're buying $13 billion. Now what's our target: we want to buy $30 billion and sell $6 billion. But look, the agricultural country is 125 industrial products for 140 agricultural products. What will we receive from Iran, the land of agriculture and livestock? If Mr. Minister of Agriculture were here, he'd make me tell you about it. It's not fair to agriculture, it's not fair to our Turkish farmer. Look what we're getting, my fellow citizens...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0085par0092	The Commissioner is here.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0093	The trout, the Norwegian lobster, the chips, the cheese, the fresh cheese, the egg, the colt, the intestine, the different flowers, the tomatoes, the onions, the garlic, the lettuce, the eggplant, the artichokes...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0086par0094	Douchebags?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0095	That's what it says, asshole. ...broccoli, cauliflower...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0086par0097	We got a lot of dicks, so we don't have to.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0098	We also call it "salata" but it says "stupid" here. ...the pumpkin...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0087par0100	Where is it written?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0101	Read it, over there. There's nachos, shellfish, there's dates, figs, grapefruits, lemons, watermelons, pears, nuts, apricots, cherries, kiwis, tea, saffron, vegetables, fish, som, mackerel, caviar, gum, gum, white chocolate, bubble gum, almond paste. We have walnut butter, marzipan; Turkey is the motherland of almonds, Turkey is the motherland of walnuts, friends of Turkey. Is that okay? Is that a deal? We backed the deal. Why? To improve our trade. My friends gave it to me on the Commission, but there's something missing here, something's wrong. We all need to fix this missing thing together. Chocolate chip with milk... Dear friends, we're not going to talk about this here, but where are we going to talk about this? Look, our country says I'm going to buy food from out of the country right now. He gives 40 imports for 100 and 80 imports for 200 from abroad. Well, I've got 30, so what am I gonna do? The poor wretch has 20 feedings, what's he going to do? Look, these citizens were waiting for the victim. I mean, we've become friends with the rich. That's not how agriculture and livestock are run. Are my people who live on agriculture and livestock already using the most expensive diesel in the world, using the most expensive electricity? Look, the man from my village of Burduraun Dağarcık texted me that energy money in water wells is very expensive. We can't beat the energy, he says. Look, our engineers, our engineers waiting on staff, we're ready. This country raised us, some became agricultural engineers, some became veterinarians, some became water products engineers, food engineers. We want a staff from the Department of Agriculture. Transfer the money you're going to give this Iran to the Ministry of Agriculture, we're not jealous, transfer it to the Ministry of Agriculture -- our Minister of Finance is here -- let's give them a staff of 10,000, let's make it 20,000. Let's all work together in this paradise country, both our producers, our peasants, our farmers. We don't have a plain? We have Harran, we have Çukurova, we have Antalya, we have Burdur, we have Thrace, we have Black Sea, we have Bafra, we have Sakarya. No friends? In this country we have Iconiah, and the grain store, and the lconium, and the Polatite. Well, when we're so rich in these parts... so we're gonna make candy, we've got flour, we've got fire, we've got butter, we've got sugar, but we can't just take this and sit around and make this candy and feed it to our citizens. It's a shame, isn't it? What are we doing here, guys? We're here to solve a problem. Look, he's throwing the Finance Minister at the Minister of Agriculture; the Minister of Agriculture is throwing it at the Prime Minister. Friends, have a seat... not a joint coalition. Is this the coalition? No, power alone, power strong. You're asking us for warning and advice. Here, I'm warning, making suggestions. When are we not going to take care of the agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians, water products engineers, food engineers that our professors, our professors, our government, our universities are raising? See what we sell to Iran: Bor, iron steel and gold. The others? No. I mean, there's a game in backgammon, you roll dice, Iran's going to keep going down, she's going to throw a dozen, she's going to shoot four, you're going to be one, two, one, all the time. Is this okay? We'll lose to this, friends, we'll lose to Iran. The goal of gambling is to support the Turkish farmer, in this trade, in this agreement. But there's no support for the Turkish farmer here, folks. If anyone understands that, let them come and tell us.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0088par0110	Mr. Ramadan, would it be all right if another Reza Sarraf came?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0111	That's right. Look, there are diseases in Turkey right now. Thrace has blue tongue disease, Thrace is boiling, animals are dying, there's quarantine in many provinces of Anatolia. Who's gonna figure this out? Veterinary physicians. Again in Eastern Anatolia, Africa's disease, which is called the eczantem of the nodules, is a disease seen in animals, closed in animal markets. This animalism is not run by Ankara, my friends. Burdur, Çanakkale, Thrace, Kars, Erzurum. We have small livestock in the inner Anatolian, we have Sivas, we have cognac. Look, I used to go by train when I was going to Ionya -- thank you, thank you, look at the roller coaster, our happiness, all of us -- I used to see sheep on the shore, on the corner, on the train. But in these years, I'm going, and the sheep are lost, lost.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0089par0113	The train is fast, you can't see.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0115	It's gone, guys. Those who can't see, wear binoculars, look, my eyes can see, I'm looking. I know how many dogs, how many sheep, how many rams in front of those sheep. I see the shepherd, the shepherd. I can even see your saddle on the donkey. Let those who don't see it see it. When I look at a herd, I see the bottle in it, I see the ram, I see the lamb, I see the heifer. I mean, it's different to see things differently, friends, you'll see them. Look, you're up because you don't see it, you're trying to bring the products from Iran -- the products that I just counted -- that Turkey produced. We've got the Metropolitan Act here again. Look, it's a mistake, guys, problems in the big city... The plateaus are empty now, no telling who's holding the plateaus. There's Korkuli County, where I've been stationed, he's got Küçükköy, he's got a plateau, he's got a village somewhere -- a friend of ours who's been the mayor of the National Movement Party, he brought water from 60 kilometers away, they're calling me yesterday, there's no water in this village right now. Why? Because you've connected it to ASAT (asalthian) in Antalya, which can't organize the waterworks within itself, and the major cities can't organize the plateaus.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0090par0117	There's a drought this year.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0118	No drought, the Lord God gives. We have all kinds of things. You know, when you're in bad hands, you make excuses for water, you make excuses for the rain. It didn't rain, no sir, there was a drought... no excuses, my friends. Our country has everything. There's water, there's oil, there's grass, there's production, there's farmers. But that farmer needs people to lead those people.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0090par0120	I do.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0121	Don't lecture, be an example, be an example, be an example. I'm an exemplary person, guys. My name was Kurtaran. My last name was Survivor. I'm a vet. That's what the citizen called it, the Savior Liver. What does that mean? But if the cow twists its tail, it comes and saves it. We did it, we had sex with a citizen. Twenty years with them...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0091par0123	You'd better save that CHP too.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0124	Guys, we're gonna save the country, we're gonna save the country together. We need this, we need dialogue, we need to talk. Look, we have to listen to each other.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0092par0125	The Mufti will save you. The mufti won first, the mufti seized your party.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0126	I don't need a mufti, I'm a mufti grandson, I'm a private grandson, don't worry. My dear friends, so it's a lot of problems; look, the deeds, the land sales-- you all have this problem. There's land sales. Your property says 150 acres, sir. Sir, I need five acres, I'm going to sell five acres, I'm going to have my child read. We're saying you can't sell it. We've made a law. It's the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to correct them. Aren't those problems in your provinces coming to you? There are lines on the deed right now. In Bolu, in Sakarya, the man sells an acre, meets his five-year need, but he says: "You, my brother, either you have 145 acres of land, you will sell them all to your brother, or you will give them all to your brother. Of course, we have lived the Land Protection Act for the benefit of our country, but there is a mistake, and who will correct it? We'll fix it. Where is the Minister of Agriculture? I don't know, he says. The Department of Land Reform should resolve this problem as soon as possible. Dear friends, what will this citizen do after this is unresolved? Look, we're talking about dorms, dorms, dorms; we're talking about dorms these days. Dorms, courses, scholarships, that's what today's all about. Don't you have this? Dorms, courses, scholarships. Our students want scholarships, they want money, money, money. It's not bliss without money. Courses, scholarships, dorms.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0093par0129	What's the scholarship, what's the course?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0083par0130	I mean, what am I supposed to do if you don't understand that? My dear friends, the problem is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I look forward to the days when this problem will be resolved. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0094par0134	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. MADDE 2 - (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0095par0142	Mr. President, to state the color of my vote, I would like a word on my behalf.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0094par0143	I said it's agreed.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0095par0144	No, no, it's not about matter, it's about coloring my vote. So, according to Article 86, I would like to say the color of my vote.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0094par0145	Okay, five minutes.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0095par0146	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, international agreements are above the law, at the level of the Constitution, according to our Constitution. International agreements, international agreements are being implemented if it goes against the law, and the Constitutional Court is not being prosecuted. So, international agreements have to be studied very well, and it has to come out accordingly. But, unfortunately, this isn't being studied very seriously in our Turkey. Now, dear lawmakers, look, yesterday, we worked until 5:30 in the morning, the day before yesterday, we worked until 4:00 in the morning. Earlier, when we were talking in this Parliament until three o'clock in the morning, this bag was supposed to be the law, but suddenly, an order came in, and you said, "Take the Parliament on vacation." And now it's spread to him: "My lord, the opposition parties are preventing the appointment of teachers who are waiting to be appointed. " But it's a lie. Now, this bag code came up yesterday. What have you brought with this bag of law? This bag of legislation, to me, is two important things, so the teachers who were waiting for the appointment were given 40,000 jobs, and it didn't bring anything except help to the families of the people who lost their lives in that accident at Soma. Look, he's lifted his jurisdiction. You have banned the decision of public service officers to be stopped in an appeal to the judiciary, and you have put the decision into effect two years later, and the decision is not carried out. And what did you do? You've pardoned major tax penalties, tax cases. What did you do? Behold, you have removed the pearl, the diamond, and the jewel. Do you know why you're putting this away? Your people are working on it. So it's not your job to make the law in favor of the worker, the officer, always the rich, always the government, wherever there's a source, wherever there's a wealth, you reach out to them, and then you transfer it into your own pocket. Well, now, dear friends, look, if there's no law in a country, will that country survive? Now, Ahmet Davutoglu is speaking in Konya, and the presidents and prime ministers can no longer answer to the court. He says he can't give, he says he can't give, he says he won't give. They only answer to the nation and to God. What kind of nonsense is that, guys? So he's going to steal... whoever he is, the presidents, the prime ministers, have the privilege of stealing, looting, corruption? I mean, that's not all there is to say. So what you're saying is...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0096par0153	It's made-up, it's made-up...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0097par0154	You misread the sentence.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0096par0155	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0098par0156	You probably didn't read it. So, look, lawmakers, with this bag of law you brought, you have eliminated the implementation of the decisions issued in the courts at the same time in Turkey. And if the court has made a decision, how do you eliminate the verdict of this court? You don't want a court order in the middle... look, here's a facility in Genghis Construction, Konya, Sejdişehir, which cost $8.5 billion, you gave it to him for $370 million. Do you know who this Genghis Construction is? Erdoğan is the man who built himself a palace in Potomia, his own village when he was mayor of Istanbul.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0096par0158	Lies! You're lying.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0098par0159	Can you think about it? The man who built the palace. Of course, he's still paying for it, and the government-- look, you've given it construction around 3 billion euros, you've given it fast train construction. Sir, you gave the government's most valuable land in Bodrum, you brought a $1 billion cove, you gave it to 150 million, and then you lent $180 million to this person from the Agriculture Bank. Look, the People's Bank Director, who gets money in his shoebox, gives a person $575 million in loans, and the loan goes under. Some of the land he bought in exchange for that loan turns out to be treasured land. Guys, if this person is giving someone $575 million in credit...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0099par0160	Throw it.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0098par0161	And if this treasure is showing collateral for his land, would he give such a loan without the Prime Minister, the minister or the AKP's power of power behind it? What you've done so far, the mind doesn't accept reason, the conscience doesn't accept it, none of the people in fear of God do. Now look at this law... Now we're asking, the most important thing is the dorm, our young people are locked out, and you're not answering. Sir, workers who work on the highway cannot work with the subcontractor system. You have not been acting on the Court's decision for three years.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0100par0164	Your time is up.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0098par0165	What are you doing, brother? Even the people on the mountain obey the law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0100par0167	The entire bill is subject to an open vote.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0100par0169	I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0171	Sir, I'd like to make a promise to determine the color of my vote. Dear...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0100par0172	I voted.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0173	I'd like your word on the bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0100par0174	I can promise you no hard feelings. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0179	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, of course we're spending the last hours of this year's legislature. We've actually done some good work together, and we'd like to close it up nicely. I thank all groups, of course, for their hard work so far, but there are some names whose life is based entirely on lies, a set of individuals who are based on slanders, smears, and, unfortunately, always on this stand, the same accusations, the same lies, the same lies over and over again, in parrot language, and so on and so forth. It's a shame, it's a sin. It doesn't suit you, and it doesn't suit Parliament. If you have some information, documents, the court is open, prosecutors are open, security is open. The same allegations, the same lies, you'd be ashamed to tell them.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0102par0180	Blackened, blackened, blackened face.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0181	He blushes, but he who has a face blushes; and we have nothing to say to him who does not have one, nor does his face turn black. Dear friends, this Parliament is a Parliament representing the unity of this nation, representing the sovereignty of this nation, representing its will, and each of us here has to act in the manner of this nation, we have to act in its values, and each of us has to pay great attention to our own statements. Now, Mr. Prime Minister said we don't know the law. Why don't they just open it up and look at these conversations, and look at what they've been saying?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0103par0184	You look into it.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0185	I was there. Dear friends, a prime minister of a government that prioritizes democracy and prioritizes freedoms in this country... I'm sorry, you can't make such heavy, unjust accusations, and neither can our nation. Look, in this legislature year, we've been to the nation twice among all these laws, both in the local elections and in the presidential election. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If this had been accepted by the people, if it had been respected, you wouldn't be here today.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0104par0190	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0191	If you wish to be in much heavier, much more troubled places today and...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0104par0192	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0101par0193	... if you want the AK PARTY to be a constant power, I'm sorry, but you continue to be the opposition.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0104par0195	Mr. Aydın, thank you. I'm starting the voting process.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0105par0201	Mr. President, sir, he teased me.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0202	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0104par0203	I started the vote.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0105par0204	But he did, sir.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0205	Mr. President, there's a tip coming out that a member of our group... Mr. President, you need to stop voting.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0207	I'm not, I'm gonna vote, I'm gonna think, I'm gonna get your request.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0208	What do you mean you'll take the vote, think about it?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0209	I didn't close the coven, I didn't close the coven.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0210	Is that possible, Mr. President? That's no fun. Please.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0211	No, please...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0212	What do you mean? Mr. President, now...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0213	The vote continues. I can promise you a vote when we close.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0214	You can't, you can't vote while we're standing.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0215	I'll get it started.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0216	I regret it. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0217	Read the second joke of Article 69.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0218	Not at all, sir. It's not your father's farm. What a shame!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0219	Read it, find out who will be offended by whom.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0220	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0221	Woe to you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0222	He calls it a lie.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0223	Woe to you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0108par0224	So he's not a liar?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0225	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0226	Do we promise every time he wants to raise his hand, dear?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0227	What does that mean? Are you going to promise me that you'll enjoy it?
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0228	Read it, read the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0229	You read that Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0230	Read it well, then talk. Look, I don't throw, I respect, I don't throw, I put it back. Let's see...
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0106par0232	I know that job better than you do. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0109par0233	Bravo, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-09-10sit04spe0107par0235	Members of the Parliament, I read the result of an open vote between the Republic of Turkey and the Islamic Republic of Iran in favour of ratification of the Preferenced Trade Agreement: Number of votes used: 228 [[x]] So the bill was adopted and legalized. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-09-10sit05spe0107par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 139th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've just announced that Bill 628 has been adopted and legalized. There is no other work on our agenda to discuss the call for an extraordinary meeting. Therefore, it is Wednesday (October 1st, 2014) at 15 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a nice holiday.
