tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. According to the program, we'll be interviewing in round one today. The first round includes the presidency of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly, the Public Control Agency, the Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Prime Ministership, National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the President of the Religious Affairs, the General Directorate of the Foundation, and the budget and final accounts of the Human Rights Institution of Turkey. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, the budget talks have decided that the questions must be asked without justification and the question-answer process for each round is 20 minutes. According to this, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. After the talks on the tour are over, the questioners will ask their questions in order of order on the screen. The question will be completed in ten minutes. Ten minutes to respond will be given. It's for your information. In the first round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Atila Kaya will speak for İstanbul, Mehmet Shandir Mersin, Oktay Özturk Erzurum, Ismet Bünataman Bursa, Mustafa Erdem Ankara MPs. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Atilla Kart Konya, Ali Haydar Öner Öner Isparta, Hüseyin Aygün Tunceli, Reza Türmen İzmir, Ali İhsan İkturk Zonguldak, Dilek Akagün Yılmaz İçe, Kamer Yüç Tunceli, Mehmet Şeker Gaziantep, İhsan Özkes İstanbul, Aylin Nazlıaka Ankara, Mahmut Tanal İstanbul MPs will speak. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Sırrı Surayya Önder will speak for İstanbul, Adil Zozani Hakkari, Ayla Akat Ata Batman; Altan Tan Diyarbakır, Gülser Yıldırım. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Hilmi Bilgin Sivas, Nevzat Pakdil Kahramanmarash, Fahrettin Poyraz Bilecik, Shuay Alpay Elazığ, Mustafa Kemal Sherbetçioğlu Bursa, Adem Yeşdal Hatay, Ali Ercoshkun Bolu, Bkent Turan İstanbul, İdris Şahin Çanırı, Murat Gökturk Nevşehir, İsmail Aydın Bursa, Cem Zor Konya, Hasan Karal Rize, Ömer Faruk Öz Malatya, Mehmet Sarı Gaziantep, Mehmet Kerim Yıldız. On behalf of the individuals, Zülfü Demirbağ Elazığ will speak against Malik Ecder Özdemir Sivas MPs. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will speak. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word is Mr. Atila Kaya. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0002par0064	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the National Movement Party on the presidential budget. I salute the High Council. The 2015 central management budget we're talking about is a blessing for our nation, for our country. Dear MPs, I am a congressman who has repeatedly criticised the current President's predecessor, who has expressed my criticism in an open letter addressed to the president's budget and to the person I share with the public. During the seven years of the presidency, I believed that there could be no worse than the late President, who could not go beyond loyalty to my brother Abdullah Gül, and today I am a congressman who understood that he was wrong. Dear lawmakers, after leaving their post, you also served in the former President Gul, who gave an interview to the newspaper Saudi El Hayat, and you also served in opposition, and you lived in the Presidential Mansion, which was more difficult? The Presidential Mansion was the hardest. You represent everyone, and if you are aware of that, the presidency is the most difficult; it's easy if you don't realize it. Mr. Erdogan, who took into account the warnings of the challenge of his neutral presidency, has eliminated this challenge in his own way, as he continues to act as AKP President rather than try to be neutral. In accordance with Article 103 of the Constitution, he saw that swearing on honor and honor that he would be neutral was clearly a trivial matter. Despite his oath of honor and honor, the President did not feel the need to change himself. If his oath and authority have not changed him, then if he is determined to be as he was, then it is up to us to continue to see him as he was. We must remember for a moment that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is what he was before he became President. So again, it's the polarist, it's the separatist, it's the separatist, it's the aberrant again, it's the one who ignores national interests for personal gains, it's the one who doesn't hesitate to use religious values, it's the one who cares about neither judicial independence nor press freedom, it's the one who wants to drown every criticism with pride. I pray for the American soldiers who turn the Middle East into a pool of blood. The person who says, "I'm responsible for marketing my country." The person who says, "I'm the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project." The person who says, "I'm the wife of the Great Middle East Project." The person who says, "I've never been in contact with a terrorist organization. I pray for American soldiers to return to their countries." It's a disgrace to say so. The person who said, "It's a solution" is the person who puts the country's reputation in shoeboxes, and it's the human president who's going to stay in our memories, and we're talking about his budget. It's a fact that a man who doesn't feel that he belongs to Turkish history, a great Turkish nation and his history, has taken an oath of honor and honor, and his budget is being discussed. We all know that under the circumstances, living in a mansion or in a palace, raising its budget by 50 or 100 per cent, and since the Court's reports didn't come to Parliament, it's only a matter of time now that we won't know where this budget will go. Congressmans, the government's skirts are on fire to prevent waste in public, while the public institutions' funds are expected to increase only 4-4.5%, while the presidential budget is nearly doubled compared to the previous year, because it was made for the president's office, not for the president's office. The goal is not to meet the needs of the presidency, but to satisfy the President's ambitions. You know that the most common place of satisfaction of these ambitions is also a rallying ground. What we're talking about, in fact, is Mr. Erdogan's election budget for 2015. No one would be surprised if Mr. Erdogan, who had no problem with "discriminate," wanted to use his breath in his lungs at the presidency to inflate the AKP's sails. The person entrusted with the prime minister's office will be able to digest the situation, first to show its capacity for digestion. However, searching for the answer to the question we will address to the President should be considered to be a political regret for each of us: "If your style in the presidency is correct, why did you not allow the President of your prime minister to act as you are now acting? If you think your prime minister is the right example, why don't you allow the current prime minister to act the same way? It is now known that he will carry the emphasis. What everyone doesn't know is what this score really means and who's the real deal. These statements, which carry a message to his account, are actually highlighting the position of the Prime Minister, not the President. I am the elected President of the people. In fact, you are simply the Prime Minister chosen by me. It is clear to him that at his party's consultation, when he speaks of Mr. Erdoğan, he calls himself the President of the State. Then what are you?" as long as he maintains his position, Mr. Davutoglu will pursue him. Congressmans, I don't know if he'll be ashamed of it or boastful, but if we don't address the court's curiosity about the current President, the portrait of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan will not be completed. As it is known, Mr. Erdogan, who completed his warm-up tours in Dolmabahçe and Beysbe's palaces, did not find an Ottoman palace worthy of his fame in Ankara, and built him a palace of more than 1.5 billion rooms. As much as the cost of this palace, including corruption, the unlawfulness of the structure has been discussed. In his early prime minister's years, it was clear that anyone who claimed that the house in Skopjedar was a fugitive would not have to worry about the legality of his dwelling, whether it was a slum or a palace. As for rumors of irregularity and corruption in the production business, we now have enough experience to believe that they will have no difficulty resolving these rumors. Engels "One thinks in another palace in a hut." he said. Obviously, that didn't apply to Mr. Erdogan. He knows how to keep his mind alive in the slum and in the palace. Speaking of "intellectual," let it not be forgotten that this court's affluence stems from the mentality that Mr. Erdogan belongs to rather than from the person he belongs to. As it is known, the former President wanted to move the items he liked in the Dolmabahce Palace to the Presidential Mansion, and we discussed that for a while. The current President is just an embodiment of this mentality. But let's face it, he's carrying out his own mentality with such determination that we should sit at Topkapi Palace and be thankful that he doesn't see Gülhane as a coupon land. Dear lawmakers, the corruption that is all connected to each other, the process of dissolution in order to order the judiciary, the resolution of the terrorist leader's solution partnership, the foreign policy that turns our borders into hell, the national education policies that preach our future to raise a spiteful generation, not only in order to be corrupt, but also the rich in power, and the pool media that are created to them, and so on, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's power. He owns all of this under the name "New Turkey" and gives himself a sense of pride. What really makes you dizzy is the presence of the masses that pledge to him at all costs. Religious rhetoric has created the mass that previous practices have said is hard to keep at home by combining the feelings of hatred and material gain that they have created in individuals. Yes, it's a job that's been overcome, but it's not a job to brag about. Go tell Ali that he has tens of thousands of men calling the male camel a she-camel." It doesn't make you a better man than a man who speaks his word. Let him not forget that anecdot which contains these words is not an example of a situation that can be used as an example, and I hereby salute the High Assembly once again.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0003par0082	Thank you. Second speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0004par0084	Mr. President, according to Article 67, the speaker has made a speech that does not comply with Article 67. In that frame, I demand an answer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0005par0085	Why isn't it clean? No insults, nothing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0003par0086	Mr. Bostanci, we must make this warning as the Court. If there's any bullying of your individual or group, I can only promise you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0004par0087	Sir, we are part of this House. The talks made within the assembly must be in a clean language according to the article 67. This is the speaker speaking, and we're listening, and we're talking. Therefore, to whomever the words are spoken, whether they are to the CHP, whether they are to the CHP, whether they are to the HDP or to the HDP, they must be in a certain manner.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0006par0088	Why didn't you remind the Prime Minister yesterday? You should have reminded the Prime Minister when he went into family matters. Why did you shut up in there?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0004par0089	In that framework, it's a Civil Code clause on the language of the House. In that frame, I want a say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0007par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0008par0091	If you'll excuse me, I'll make my decision. I listened well to the speaker. In your sense, we can only give you a clear warning as me and the Court. Of course, you are part of this House, and we have no objection to that, but there is no insult to you and your group, I take it. But now I'm going to make a promise to another speaker, and I'm going to get the transcripts. Of course, if there's anything that I've missed naturally, I'll consider it and let you know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0009par0094	They're censoring it all over again.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0010par0095	We're just getting started.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0008par0096	Sir. Something's been said about the president.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0011par0097	From the beginning, he said, "The president didn't say."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0008par0098	Well, I guess I'm a little touchy today. Congressmans, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Mr. Mehmet Shandir, Mersin MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0012par0103	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of 2015 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Chairman of the Court and the Society of Public Control. First, I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a very important, fundamental national institution that is essential to our republic and democracy as the most important of the three fundamental elements of the system by its historical character and by its authority to use it for the nation's sovereignty in the name of the nation. The authority he uses is due to the founding law. Dear lawmakers, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state founded after a national struggle with the blood of our ancestors. It is this Parliament that we are honored and honored to be a member of, who has begun and succeeded in this national struggle and established this state. This Parliament, which won the sovereignty rights in a national struggle, has been an example and a beacon of hope for all oppressed nations. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is obliged to uphold its own law and the law of the nation it represents as a parliament establishing a state and establishing the founding law of the state. This law, the Lausanne Peace Accord, was registered in the international plane and in a contract with its people in 1924, earned its immutable quality. In the laws of the states, there is an advent of the founding law and is untouchable. The United Nations Convention and the founding law are protected against fundamental rights and freedoms. The undivided integrity, identity, flag, and sovereignty of countries are untouchable. Although the state of Turkey is a continuation of an empire and lives in the Middle East geography, it is founded on the values of modern civilization and universal law without any complexes. He also accepted and tried to achieve it as a national goal to rise above the level of human rights and freedoms of civilization. This state is the work of this House. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the budget of such a House. I consider the fact that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is alive today, its openness to be the success of our nation, and I find it very valuable, and I am proud and proud to be a member with you. I'd like to make a few things clear, first of all, in charge of this. We are all obliged to uphold the rights, law and honor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the nation that created it, and the nation that it had powered for its name. Dear lawmakers, we can't take away the founding law of this state and the identity of the nation, we can't allow it to be taken away. There is a constitutional obligation to name the nation for which we use sovereignty. This nation is called the Turkish nation. The national identity, which has long been destroyed and tried to wear down, is the source and source of existence of this House. It is not possible to be here without accepting this identity; it cannot be legitimate; the 81st Article of the Constitution is in charge of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, the burden of a sentence without a subject doesn't mean anything. As a common denominator, can the state of a nation without a national identity be powerful? Power isn't just flippin' numbers. According to us, as the National Movement Party, the founding law of our state, which we have established together with all our differences, the name of the people living within the Islamic borders is the Turkish nation. As a national identity, the Turkish nation has been defined and registered in international law with the Lausanne Peace Accord, and in civil law with the Constitution of 1924. The Turkish nation's name is not used as the name of a race, a generation, as some claim and reason for its efforts, its intentions. The Turkish nation is the name of those who are bound by citizenship to this state, the name of the people who live in it. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we take the name Turk (Turkish) across the world beyond Turkey and as a nation that has flown through the filter of thousands of years of history, through its image, and we sincerely believe it. The Turkish nation, however, is the common name of everyone who founded this state and was a citizen of this state. Such acceptance and ownership are essential and mandatory for the future, for everyone's future. Not accepting the Turkish nation is in a sense rejecting the state of Turkey. No state without a nation, no nation without a name. On May 4, 2005, Mr. President invited all political parties, during a busy period of sub identity-top identity debates, to describe this Turkish nation, to make a consensus. No party, particularly the ruling party, has refused this invitation. Now, we're concerned about the destruction of a mindset, a policy that raises the Turkish nation's identity to debate. Dear lawmakers, in a process when the world is globalized, when continents, countries, come together around a number of common values, we never find it right to try to separate this nation by identifying our ethnic and religious differences, which are actually our wealth. It's divisive in every sense. This will not do any good to this country and to those who pursue this separation, nor will it be possible to succeed. It is my obligation that all those who dwell in this land, who eat the bread of this land, who drink its water, should have the identity of this nation as a debt to the ancestors, and hear the glory of it. I condemn my nation for their actions in the AKP, which negotiated with ethnic separatists, which opened this road by saying "alt-top identity" and brought the Turkish nation's identity into question. A nation called Kurdistan with the demands of the PKK, the creation of a country called Kurdistan, and the process of resolving its sovereignty will turn into destruction in our neighbours. We warn you, we warn you again, that this road, which you are dragged through, is a dead end. The dead end will bring destruction, whether you want it or not. The mindsets and efforts that aim to change the state's established law and the identity of the nation are historically fixed, so that God and his people will be damned. I would advise you to read and reconsider the fate of Sadrazam Mehmet Emin Ali Pasha, who has changed the established law of the Ottoman State and of the Islamic Empire. Dear friends, please consider the consequences of a series of events in history that have been paid very heavily, which have cost a great deal of pain, and what kind of examples of events today will come to, and in the future, we advise you not to become those who are called traitors in history. Dear friends, as a sentence of judgment from here, we are all descendants, size, faith, and self-respectable, but together we are all Turkey, and we are the Turkish nation. In the words of Mr. President-in-Chief, Turkey is a garden of a thousand colors and scented flowers. Why is this hard on you, but are you trying to remove Turkey from its identity and unity? Remember, this budget you're negotiating is the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Turkish nation, and we're talking in the Assembly of the Turkish nation. Dear MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a parliament where legislation is made, law is established, and the use of public resources dedicated to the government is monitored. To us, it's essential that the law is done right and fast because we're building the law that is needed for the needs of the country and for the nation here. As quickly and accurately as the law is made, it must be an indispensable rule to prioritize quality, independence, law enforcement and social benefits. What you're doing may comply with the condition of form, the Constitution and the Civil Code, but whether it's in accordance with democracy, whether it's legitimate, whether it's in order to develop a sense of justice in the public conscience, or whether I thought, I said, it happened. Whether it's being imposed, it's being questioned. Do we have a common sense here? In these matters, we think that there have been major problems in the majority of AKP and during this period in power, and with every passing day Turkey's Grand National Assembly has taken custody, and we are deeply concerned about that. Dear lawmakers, it is our duty to establish law, but forward democracy is established not by power, but by opposition. I don't think the opposition was given much opportunity to do its duty. I think it's been a very dangerous development for our democracy that the AKP Group has recently imposed on this parliament as its owner, not as part of the law. Dear friends, as the National Movement Party, we, as an opposition party, have been open to dialogue since the first day, with a compromiser, tolerant, solution-making approach, but in national matters, we have demonstrated an opposition policy that opposes those who are wrong about the unity and the unity of the country, and we have followed it. A key mission by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on behalf of the nation is control, valued MPs. The Court shall oversee the use of budgetary funds in budget negotiations, for which it is incumbent. Is it possible to say that during the AKP's rule, the Court was able to carry out its control duties on behalf of Parliament in a healthy manner? Look at opposition parties' opposition statements, where there are very strong allegations and accusations about the Court, the recent, especially in recent budgets, that its reports are empty and that it is not sent to Parliament. I think it would be a serious threat and a danger to our democracy if these were left unanswered. I especially want to address lawmakers from the ruling party group: A smart power is the power that gives the day-to-day account. He who delays the reckoning for the Hereafter, and gives the answer to the High Council, without giving the answer. Dear friends, there is no doubt that the government has something to say about the Court reports, but as it has been said, the Court reports need to be answered by comparing them to the past, the void, the void of the court reports, and the need not be done. If a government feels the need to make so much law in the use of public resources, then naturally, there are accounts and allegations of corruption that are hidden, hidden, unreported. December 17, 25th, corruption investigations must be brought to a conclusion over the judiciary, criminals must be punished and the public conscience must be relieved. Otherwise, it will reflect on the future as a very heavy burden on the state, on the regime, on democracy. Dear lawmakers, in the use of public resources, another constitutional institution that will oversee the state, the government, the administration is the Public Control Agency. The Public Control Agency was established with our support, in order to examine, investigate, and offer advice to the administration, in order to investigate, investigate, investigate, investigate, and advise the rights of law in the understanding of every action and actions and conduct of the administration based on human rights. As of late October 2014, 5,974 complaints have been answered at 4,549, the interested ones have been warned, and those who complain have been informed, according to a brief note by the president of the Public Control Agency. I see this as an important development. I hope this institution will not be taken into custody by the AKP's government, as it has been done in other institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we know that our Parliament has been working very hard on many issues, especially Mr. Speaker and employees under its administration, but I also regret that there has been no results in the Constitution, the Civil Code, and the rights of the legislature. In this particular period, I consider the fact that lawmakers who exercise law enforcement on behalf of the nation, as a constitutional obligation, their rights to self-inflicted by law, to be unlawful, and I hope to complete it at this time. Dear friends, the members of our House have many problems, and we talk about it all the time, but it doesn't work out. If the sense of justice is important, I feel that these unjust practices among members of the House must be ended somehow and quickly. Dear MPs, we listen to every day to the problems of Parliamentary staff, especially those of the 4/C (C) people and non-governmental services. We have to be lawful for the efforts of these people who serve us. It's not that hard to solve these people's problems, it's not that many, but if there's an injustice among people who do the same job, if there's a right to eat, if there's a sense of emotion, I think it's going to fall to Mr. President of the Turkish National Assembly, executives and us party groups, I hope it will be solved. I want to thank all of you for the red tape that has worked on the preparation of the 2015 budget, and for the work my party has done to all of the members of the Plan Budget Commission, particularly the members of the Plan Budget Commission, and to ask that the budget bring good results to our country, to our nation, to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0013par0128	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The third speaker for the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0014par0133	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to present the views and proposals of the National Movement Party regarding the budgets of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Court. On this occasion, I salute you all. Constitutional judicial bodies generally carry out the function of state power and in particular the control and balance of political power. In this context, it is possible to say that the compliance of laws with the Constitution is due to the need for effective protection of the Constitution of the Constitution, which guarantees human rights. The main objective of the constitutional judiciary in the democratic legal state is to ensure the superiority of the Constitution effectively against the majority of legislation. This requirement is due to the possibility that the law will adopt a law against the Constitution by majority vote. Since the law is in a sense an explanation of national will in a sense before the majority of democracies entered democracy, there is no question that the law is contrary to the Constitution. However, with the birth of political parties and the emergence of antidemocratic tendencies in political parties, political minorities need to see legal and effective protection against legislation by the majority. The need for effective supervision of the Constitution of the law has shown itself when added with detailed laws that the modern state has to impose on technical matters in order to regulate many complex areas of life. As a key requirement for modern constitutionalism, all these developments have revealed the goal of achieving limited power. This requirement resulted in the establishment of constitutional courts, which were central constitutional justice bodies in the 20th century to oversee the constitutionality of laws, first in continent Europe and later in Turkey. At this point, the laws made by the political government, which has a majority of legislation, are to be annulled by the constitutional courts. The Constitutional Court is the umbrella at the top of the principle of separation of forces, a serious inspection and examination of the use of law enforcement authority, a position to say "due to rights violations" when it is protected from the pressure of ruling the judiciary. Recent developments in Turkey show tension between the Constitutional judiciary and the majority of legislation and thus the government. The Constitutional Court is strongly criticised by the Constitutional Court as a result of the government's laws and legislation and proposals being cancelled by the Constitutional Court. It is the Constitutional Court's main duty to remove the political majority in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's non-constitutional law savings by the Constitutional Court and to address right violations stemming from public power's actions, transactions and negligence, and the Constitutional Court must always consider that issue in its decisions. In particular, when the majority of legislation violates the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms, it is imperative that the Constitutional Court prevent these proceedings from continuing a democratic society order. In our country, in particular, the laws against the government's recent legal technique and the Constitutional Court are clearly annulled by the Turkish Constitutional Court. In addition, the President of the Constitutional Court has voiced criticism of the government in several occasions. The president of the court has recently raised his criticism of the government. The President of the Constitutional Court, who gave one of the most important statements in this statement at the 52nd anniversary of the Constitutional Court's establishment, uses the following statements: (In order to pass a country through a legal safety test, the written rule of law must then be determined as to the state of the legal staff and judicial arm. If the elements involved in the system serve justice in harmony without obstructing each other, then there's no problem. Without probable cause, there is no mention of changes in the written rule of law that are often made in order to achieve political goals without public interest can ensure the safety of the law in society. The lack of foreseeable legal arrangements to disrupt economic, political, social and cultural life is where individuals' trust in the law is exhausted. Essentially, the elements that will ensure legal safety are the practices of the judicial bodies that have solved the issue of independence and neutrality, and the rights of law enforcement and executive organs, which are subjective to human rights. The main pillar of the legal state, the judiciary, is also defined as the conscience of the state. Painful examples of damage to society's life have yet to be erased from memory, as this conscience has been invaded by political and ideological custody centers. And as long as the invasion continues, we will continue to experience it. No matter the identity, thought, or sanctity of those who occupy the conscience of the judgment, the outcome will not change. It will never affect our view that the victims who suffered the same violations as the victims who were violated yesterday are different identities today. It's not just judgment, it's humanity's duty to oppose injustice and violation by all who have honor. Because only honorable people who defend the rights and freedoms of others can live together as guarantees of peace. As of today, the verdicts on the simplest case of criminal cases have been debated, and trust in the judiciary has been severely wounded. Everyone, especially the judicial and executive body, must present information, documents, and evidence about these allegations without delay. It is clear that there is no point in solving the problem by being assigned to other provinces or replacing them, both in the judiciary and in the executive body. Its task is to reveal the material truth, and it is called corruption from ▪vicdan. Clearly, it is necessary to do so. In the event of proof of its authenticity by implementing the proper methods of law state, the perpetrators must be given proper sanctions without expecting a second to be executed. The government members and its supporters must be tried in the constitutional and legal framework for unlawful conduct and for their crimes to be punished. One of the important questions to be asked here is: What has happened to those who have had close companions in the recent past who have become enemies today? Why, in particular, are individuals who have been arm in arm during the closing trial of the AKP (AKP) and even considered to be the saviors of the AKP (AKP)? Why are they declared today's enemies? Clearly, even his companions have to rebel against the government's rights, unlawful conduct, and activities. That's why they're publicly turning on each other. The members of the government's party must remember that this is not going to go on like this, it can't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't, it shouldn't. If the AKP government insists on this, it will upset the balance of the state and the nation. The Constitutional Court is not a party, it does not examine sides. The Constitutional Court is not the lifeline of power or opposition, nor is one's weapon or pressure against the other. Today, the AKP's government must submit to the Constitutional Court's justice and abide by its decisions in the face of efforts to cross its own constitutional line, just as it has sought justice in the case of the closure of the ruling party in the past. You cannot declare war against the Constitutional Court and its decisions by the power of power. If you do, you will have done the war against the state in which you are in power, and against your people who have found peace in the umbrella of the Constitution. The AKP, on the other hand, does not need to destroy the legal state to pursue the alleged claim of parallel construction. The Constitutional order, intelligence units, law enforcement and independent judiciary will investigate these allegations in no time. We're having trouble understanding the concern. If there's any damage done by the parallel structure you claim to have served in the judiciary, your efforts to correct it will lead to disappointment. With that frustration, you'd be doing a great deal of damage to the state and especially the state of law. We will not allow you to destroy the state or disrupt the state of law as the National Movement Party. It is in the best interest of our nation and our state to listen to our warnings under this sacred roof of the Turkish nation, the rightful owner of the kingdom. You can't take the offensive position at the expense of the rule of law when you see the damage to your power like a boomerang of the so-called parallel structure you've allowed in your twelve-year-old past to become staffed and structured in state mechanisms. Resolving corruption investigations under the name of dealing with parallel structures, making confidentiality decisions on these investigations will not eliminate allegations of corruption. To seek refuge in the parallel structure to cover corruption claims, to seek refuge in the parallel structure of the Constitutional Court in order to achieve power, to seek refuge in the parallel structure while destroying the legal state, to fight the parallel structure... how long will this asylum go on, and when will these wrongs end? We advise you to turn away from your mistakes. Stop destroying the legal state and seek the justice of the Turkish nation, as everyone else does. Of course, legal arrangements can be made in accordance with the needs of the age and the needs of institutions, but unfortunately most legal regulations during your rule have not gone beyond serving the purpose of taking away the independence of institutions and creating institutions under the power. This form of lawless and aggressive conduct of your power is not a constitutional act. Your government, which boasts that you have come with a national vote, has unfortunately moved out of the Constitution with support from the nation. This rebellion has led our people to a precipice. This exuberance blinds our nation's hopes. This flood corrupts the balance of the state, its balance. Under this sacred roof, we warn the AKP's government once again: do no more damage to the legal state, remove your hand from the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, do not touch the independence of the judiciary. We warn you not to touch the independence of the judge because unfortunately, in your transition, the Turkish judiciary has lost its reputation. The polls show that the trust in the judiciary has dropped to 17 per cent. It is the lowest in the history of the judiciary of countries ruled by democracy, not just by Turkish judicial history, and it is a disaster. This disaster painting is inevitable when you play with justice and try to control the judiciary so much as to prevent the possibility of being tried for crimes files that have been raised for 12 years. As a matter of fact, the judgment is the last door in a society for everyone to steal, so it is the insurance and guarantee of the individual, society, public order, and, finally, the state of law. In our culture, justice is the foundation of property. It is assumed that social turmoil and conflicts will occur in communities that fall below 50 percent of the trust in the judiciary. When people think they've been wronged, instead of resorting to a judgment they don't trust, they're willing to take their rights personally, and that leads to anarchy, chaos. There are three basic elements of a legal state: legal administration, judicial control of the administration and independent judiciary. It is the legal administration that the state conducts all its organs, institutions and public officials in accordance with the law. It is the judicial control of the administration to examine what they do or do not do according to the law. The judiciary, which has the body to conduct this inspection, must also be independent. In recent years, laws made with bags have changed over a short period of time, renewed, and, frankly, altered the genes of the political government's legal system has corrupted legal confidence and stability. The strengthening of the tendency of institutions and individuals, especially under the rule of law, to overcome judicial decisions on the basis of compliance, and finally to break the judicial process of decision-making, quickly lowers the confidence in the judiciary. Although the role of other factors is not ignored, it is also a fact that confidence in the judiciary is fundamentally the influence of the judicial institution. The changes in our Constitution and laws since the beginning of the 2000s, in the context of harmonisation of the norms of the European Union, have unfortunately been caused by an arabessic concept that has not been understood and implemented as well as our judicial organisation, which has also destroyed its former traditions, and has led to legal confusion in its administration. In addition to the large proportion of legal errors in high judicial decisions, legal scandals in cases that occupy the agenda have been a factor in the release of confidence in the judiciary in society. A special judge and republican prosecutors of a period, along with the Supreme Court, were also appointed according to a specific standard of mensibility and were particularly paranoid about listening, trying to create hegemonia on society with illegal evidence and confidential witnesses. Indeed, they have achieved a great deal in it. After the 2010 referendum on the transfer and administration of the judiciary and the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, after the HSYK, in all previous periods, it is unfortunately in 17 per cent today, after the changes that have been introduced to the nation as reformers of the judiciary, which have never fallen below 50 per cent. The main reasons for this are the thought of taking over the judiciary, which is that the former leader of AKP (AKP), who wanted to discredit and then design as he wanted to do, is to say, "I don't trust this judgment in public in the squares." It's basically logic that I've been chosen to do anything. Isn't that logic? The former leader, who thought he was going to design the judiciary with the constitutional amendment he had made, and that he would take control of the last judge he saw before him, was now too late when the December 17th-25 corruption investigation came to light, which he thought he had designed, and he realized that he was wrong when he turned to himself, his family, and his accomplices. Because now, the judgment has become political, it smells of salt. If the lack of confidence in the judiciary can't get rid of this dimension, which involves serious dangers for public order, illegality becomes legitimate and anarchy begins, and that's the most important part of anarchy, the AKP mindset. Congressmans, I'd like to end my discussion with a brief but historical anecdote: ▪Kuni Sultan Süleyman asks John Efendi, who is also his milk brother: In what condition does a state collapse? My Sultan, if persecution spreads in a state, and injustice is done, and the people who hear it say, "We must go away," and then the shepherds eat the sheep, not the wolves, and those who know it, and the state shuts up, then the state will be destroyed. I remind you that those who seek to overthrow the state must be cautious enough to learn from history, or else history is cruel to those who are reckless, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0015par0149	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the fourth speaker is Mr. Ismet Grandataman, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0016par0154	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Central Management Budget Act of 2015 and the Undersecretary of Prime Ministership and National Intelligence Service of 2013. On this occasion, I salute your high council with the utmost respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I begin my words, I remember Huseyin Nihal Atless Bey, a man who devoted his life to the idea of Turkish nationalism in the year of his death, with mercy, gratitude, and respect. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. It's a good thing there was a horseless man, and he's seen these days, and he's told us about these days, and you don't mind being a minister of finance by a Jewish judge, you don't even want him to fill his own pouch, and you'll even be happy that he'll bump the budget, even though he's transferred to Israel, and even if he wants to build a Kurdish state, you don't want one of the descendants of Sheikh Sait to be Prime Minister or Minister of State, he said. How convenient that there's a judge, there's an effort to divide, sheik Sait is now a so-called national hero. Rest in peace Mr. Horseless, you've seen these days. But there is also the nationalist movement, and it will never allow separatist mentality. Dear lawmakers, the central management budget for 2015 is discussed in heavy economic and social conditions. In the economy, debt, unemployment and inflation are increasing, structural issues are deepening. The government has been asked by terrorist organizations to help maintain public order, and the state has no dignity. Society is thrown into camping and polarization. The economy collapses in all this turmoil, and even the AKP's own ministers are not able to build it. Turkey criticises the one who cannot produce it in its words, and it is sad that the AKP, which distributes billions of euros to Syrian asylum seekers in 2014, has failed to give the officer a raise and blamed it on the union. The 2015 budget is not social and fair. Injustice and unconscionability not only show itself in tax collection, but also in the distribution of the budget. The primary duty of social and democratic states is to present social and public services to its people equal, free, qualified and accessible, while the AKP government aims to make a budget that aims to transfer our taxes to its supporters rather than to transfer them to public services. The gap in income distribution and injustice are increasing day by day. While the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting more and more desperate to make a living. Dear lawmakers, the AKP is like a reward for the PKK out of a bloody lottery. A full negotiation line was established between Imralı and Kandil, where Turkey's fate was chained. The Prime Minister announced that the PKK has won a lot during the process in a television programme where he attended a heart-to-heart consultant who used his pen against the nation. This is not new to us. As this counselor opened up like an exploding patch, he declared that public order is now in the region, not in the state, but in the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). However, the Prime Minister, who said that the baby killer, who could only be a logger in hell, should admit that he is the leader of the Kurds, a part of the Turkish nation, did not make a sound, so we accept that the Prime Minister said those words. So this is the real picture of Turkey, and it turns out what kind of problems the process of dissolution has led to. Although panicfully denied, the Home Secretary participated in the confessional, and there were times when we lost control of Alan. The pressure of terror has increased in the countryside, and terror has begun to land in cities. No matter what they say about the AKP, our detection and observation is that the process of treason leads to the collapse of Turkey. The PKK establishes courts, intercepts roads, collects tributes, declares autonomy, tightens its bloody actions. The eastern and southeast public power is being purged. The state authority is resetting. The PKK uses its final leverage to move the issue to the international platform, requesting that international forces, such as the United States, be involved in the process. The same United States is handing out aid to PKK's Syrian arm and points out its side to the unwitting AKP's power. Turkey is trapped between the crackdown and the threat of bloody war. The writers of the Red Book are about to draw red pencils on Turkey. Is there a connection and connection to the alleged 156-page road map prepared by the terrorist leader on August 15, 2009? Erdogan and Davutoglu are calling for a solution to the bloody plans of Ocalan's killer, handed to him by foreign services? What is this process of solutions that AKP lawmakers do not know, many of the people sitting in the ranks of the Council of Ministers, cannot learn? To make a note of history here, dear friends and ministers of the Justice and Development Party, this is not the road. This road is a bottomless well. Return from the path which you do not know. Otherwise, you can't pay the consequences of this heavy responsibility. Those who are part of these treason and division projects will surely face a fair trial and be judged. Turn around while the road is near and apologize to our beloved nation. In response, the National Security Council has been cut off from the facts of Turkey, in response to its determination to maintain public order and security against provocative events, lawmakers point out that the dissolution process, which is now the number one source of plague and melanetism, creates a positive atmosphere and a peaceful environment. The deficits and destruction of Turkey's security were not serious and not worth discussing by these members of the Council. As the assassinations of our soldiers and police in the southeast increased, it is unfortunate that PKK's construction of the city has not been seen as a security issue while our security guards in Diyarbakır are closely monitoring the houses and apartments they live in. In fact, in the presence of his wife, the soldiers and police who were killed in the marketplace, the guards whose homes were shot down, the martyrs were ignored. AKP MP says the AKP has explained for two years the massacres and atrocities carried out by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the AKP province congress, but no one has listened to him. We stop crying behind closed doors and invite them to come out here, on the stand of the nation, and shout out the truth. It should be known that the most serious security issue for our country today is the presence of the AKP, as well as the separatist and imperialist conspiracy. Our advice to power is to give up opening policies by acting against division and all kinds of dissolution. A total war against terror must be waged. National forces must be reinforced by realizing that the Turkish nation is on every front and directly aimed. The attacks against the nation and the state must be eliminated. While we can say a lot of things about our lack of intelligence, while Oslo is standing on the sidelines, we're wondering, shouldn't our intelligence have been strengthened when the budget of our intelligence units rose this high? Or does the Prime Minister just finance and use intelligence services to listen to citizens, rivals and journalists? Dear lawmakers, the National Security Council keeps the state uplifted with all its organs, in every situation and condition prepared. But what can be expected of a national security board that's been destroyed, driven to hunger and curse, consumed by vision and mission? The National Security Council makes recommendations on the appointment of national security policy, detection and implementation of the state's national security policy, establishes opinions to ensure co-ordination, gives its recommendations and opinions to the Council of Ministers and fulfills the duties given by law, but unfortunately, the National Security Council is unable to carry out its primary duty. We're wondering, when will the fact that bribes and corruption on the national security board of 15 members be remembered as one of the greatest enemies of national security, national spirit, and national fortune? How is it possible to grasp and honestly defend security with this national Security Council structure? Who will believe and trust the statements of the National Security Council, where the word "terrorism" does not pass, and there is not a single reference to the threat of separatism, and the PKK is not remembered? If we look at the National Security Council, Turkey is like a rosery, except for small troubles and parallel ghosts, there's nothing wrong with it. Building and maturing the politics of national security is not the wages of those who stack money in shoe boxes, those who co-operate with the bank manager, those who set up pool media with contract cuts, those who are puppets of a bribe broker called the Zarrab. You have to be national to really worry about national security. Dear MPs, it is time for Mr. Davutoglu, who is now the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, to realize that the international political scene is different from the university bench. Zero problems that haven't been stitched up in years are where the rhetoric gets us. Integrating integration, harmony and mutual co-operation with the world that the AKP has claimed to be on its way to foreign policy, its place has been replaced by precious loneliness comedy. Davutoglu's advisors have stopped thinking about the rights and interests we have to defend, and have started spending all their hours covering up Davutoglu's nonsense, calling names full-blown. He did not establish relationships with regional and global actors based on level, balanced, mutual good intentions and respect. His foreign policy, fictional and adventurous qualities, has become a ball of contradictions, and is more and more knotted as it is resolved. He's not the real Prime Minister, he's just the regent. As such, Mr. Davutoglu is a bad copy of Erdogan. Dear lawmakers, with AKP power today, our country is in a state crisis. The government remains silent in the face of challenges against the state with street actions, and the government does not make any effort to prevent attacks against the state and the nation's unity and the presence of the nation, because it is not true and the place where Erdogan and Davutoglu stood and looked at it. You've ruined thousands of years of Turkish military tradition. What are you going to do when you don't object to the National Security Council to collaborators who serve this corruption, discrimination, sedition, and terrorism? Are you going to serve the Turkish nation by watching those who have taken down flags from inside the barracks and then posting so-called reprimand messages? How did you watch these comfortable images in your warm homes while heavy-armed henimeters were being trampled over the Turkish country, while our great nation was once again humiliated, accompanied by mobs with PKK rags, criminal posters, and so-called Kurdistan rags? You have made the bones of Mete, and Attila, and Alparslan, and Fatih, and Yavuz, and Mustafa Kemal. Honourable lawmakers have rewritten the history of corruption during the 12 years of AKP's power and have uncovered a new AKP team in corruption and bribery. Covered funds are at the head of spending that mark each period of AKP power. Covered funding spending during the AKP administrations has increased steadily. Between 2003-2013, there was a $3.5 billion grant spent. In 2013, 624.1 million euros were spent covered, while in the first nine months of 2014, 840.9 million euros were spent according to secret service costs in the Ministry of Finance's statements. Expenses that are open in the prime minister's action reports write pens, but the expense of Law 5018 in accordance with Article 24 (P.S.), such as covered allowances, are remarkable. According to Article 5018, it is the grant of the Prime Minister's budget for covered funds, closed intelligence and closed defence services, the needs of the state's national security and high interests, and the needs of state reputation, political, social and cultural purposes and extraordinary services. The budgets of other public administrations that operate intelligence services required by law may also be covered. Covered funds cannot be used outside these objectives and in the personal expenses of the Prime Minister and his family and the need for political parties to govern, propaganda and election. According to the Finance Ministry budget data, however, $299m was spent in July and August, representing the presidential election period from the secret spending pen. This number represents a 126% increase compared to the previous two months. The only explanation for this extraordinary increase in July and August is the presidential elections. This proves that there was illegal spending. Covered funding has increased to a record level in the years when Recep Tayyip Erdogan served as Prime Minister. Such a large amount of covered grant spending indicates AKP's spending patterns that have escaped control. Another issue of covered funds is the control of covered allowance spending. However, the government's position on this issue is a position that will not be in democratic governments. The Court's application to the Prime Minister for supervision of covered funds remained unanswered. Court audits are carried out on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in other words, on behalf of the people's will. The prime minister's office is again missing the money collected by people's taxes from the control of the nation's will. It seems that the AKP is spending something that it can't explain to the public that it wants to smuggle out. As I end my words here, I wish that the 2015 budget would bring blessings to our beloved nation, and I salute your grand delegation with my deepest respect, respect, and conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0017par0174	Thank you. Members of parliament, the last speaker on behalf of the National Movement Party is Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP. Your time is 17 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0179	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, Human Rights Institution and the General Directorate of Foundations. I salute you all with love and respect. Our chairmanship of Religious Affairs is one of the most valuable and important institutions in our country. His spiritual responsibility, the organization staff, is viewed as a place in our country that needs all the respect, attention, and protection that he has. As the National Movement Party, we, along with all the needs of our President of Religious Affairs, have supported his demands and are prepared to give them their demands freely, and we will continue to be ready. Dear lawmakers, as the National Movement Party, we would like to point out that there are some issues in which the Ministry of Religious Affairs is currently in effect. At a time when trade union activities are in force in the country, it is not seen in a strong institution, such as Diyanet, that the government, the executive body, the politicians, the trade unions are in control of it, that the driver's license, justice, integrity should be based on, the environment, the co-conspirators, or a number of contributors to it, is directly unconcerned with the moral responsibility of the Dijanet's understanding of service and the view of this institution of the great Turkish nation. It appears that the agency has been biased in court decisions that have been carried out so far, and in a sense, it has been reluctant to implement court decisions. On the other hand, there is another issue that shows that the principles of righteousness and justice of the Head of the Religious Affairs have been ignored again. Contracted personnel brought to the agency from outside have surrounded the functions of the centers and have been led to a structure that, so to speak, has led them to follow the demands of political power or a direct relationship with them by political power. But, in addition to all of this, we have a number of officials, a number of responsibilities, and they need attention, service, and support today. As a matter of fact, our pursuants have the right to become city inspectors, and in that sense, they want to take advantage of 3,600 additional indicators taken by others, and at least have the rights of branch managers in the centers, which are not, unfortunately, given today. Dear lawmakers, I also warned the President of Religious Affairs from this bench last year that rotation practices are a real cause of discomfort. Disintegrated families, timeless rotational practices have made staff, so to speak, let alone their life, even their religion. I'd like to express that we view this as an inconvenience and strongly condemned. Another matter is of great importance here. On the day that the AKP has come to power, the president of the Diabetes Department has unfortunately been made official by cerciism from a day when he promised that mosques would cease to be a charity. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, both the clergy who have to collect these coins and the congregation who have to leave with a responsibility to pay tribute to the mosque are offended by this. Besides, it's a question of who, where, and when they're being paid. And while I should be bringing it up on matters related to the Diet Foundation by now, I would like to put it this way: is there a future account in any bank today, or is it not, of the money that our President of Religious Affairs or the Foundation of Turkey has collected? If you say that our money is in the future account for any purpose, then I want to make it clear to you why these funds are being collected and must be collected for certain purposes are being used against purpose. There's been some incidents going on in Arakan. There's been some trouble in Iraq. There's been some money gathering all over the world to help the oppressed nations. But I'm thinking about how many percent of the money has been collected, and where the rest are being used as what's being used as Matufs. It's really something that needs to be investigated and really needed to be known by this nation. I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. Dear lawmakers, in no time in the history of the President of Religious Affairs, the common expression of the religious workers and those who have interest and respect for religion in society has not been political. I ask you, are we the followers of the religion, or are we the masters of politics? If it's politics, then the political representatives of the AKP are already keeping it empty, so let's bring in the People of the Diary, fill these gaps, where they come with their decency, with their knowledge, with their knowledge, with their savings, with their knowledge, and with their knowledge, with this nation, but under the roof of another institution, under the dome of the mosque, those who have to make politics, in order to serve others, will have their duty to serve God Almighty, and in a sense, they will have to express to the public that they are a means of communication or some form. And I'd like to stress that I'm particularly offended here. I also condemn the bias that the President of Religious Affairs has applied to the members of the religious community, either to trade unions or to political advocacy. The people who work on the diet -- on top of its name, is the President of the Religious Affairs of the Republic of Turkey -- are Muslims only, and only -- no matter which party he votes for, which union he belongs to. So if there's a disclosure between Muslims, if there's a breach of justice among Muslims, then for what purpose would they be concerned about representing religion and the Diianity, then I think people should say it from here, and I think people should have some sort of respect for it. Dear lawmakers, the President of the Religious Affairs needs to take care of another matter. There may be poor people in the AKP who are not Turkish, who are uncomfortable with Turkishness or in some way unable to say that they are Turkish, who may be uncomfortable with this, but as a Turkish nation, we learned our religion by listening to teachers, imam masters, mufti. Now, let's see, in this visual field, we have our own religious rituals, our own religious positions. I insisted on this, and today I leave it to the Witnesses to appreciate whether it's Vahabi, Salafi, or some other wannabe I don't know about, or whether it's the desire to hate the Turkish nation and look like someone else. But Tayyar Altukulaç, our Abdurrahman Gürses, the deceased, and Ismail Bicer, who is in love with the deceased, have a Koran reading style entrusted to us and an app that has been broken in Muslim mosques. On what grounds, on what grounds do we give up? And as a result, to see this nation's historical traditions and the civil services of humanity and Islam as rejections by a non-contact Meccan imam wannabe, who every day is not like each other, I present to you the appreciation of its work in a Dianite or Diyanette. Dear MPs, there are members of the High Council of Religious Affairs in our Ministry of Religious Affairs. And they enjoin upon you concerning the matter of prayer, or of the matter of corruption, or of the religion similar to it. But, when it comes to issues that will corrupt social morality, legitimize theft, justify bribery, undermine this nation and state, the President of Religious Affairs takes the fetishes in the form of service from professional fetishists and has to build the moral structure of this society with it. I'm ashamed, that the President of Religious Affairs, that our religion has to have as many advocates as they have to protect their own corporate identity, but do they have the responsibility to teach this community the institutional identity of those who have the institutional identity of the institution, and to defend it so that it can live with that religion? If you say no, it means to reject ourselves, but if you say, "There is," then I'm asking you, "Where is the President of the Diabetes?"
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0019par0194	Speak, Hajji, speak. Bravo!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0195	Again, I ask you, in doing so behind Uludağ, a deputy at the bottom of Mount Bolu, a member of parliament at this time...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0020par0196	Does my teacher look good on you? You're always shaking me up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0197	...where is the Head of Religious Affairs when he shows a human being with all of God's qualities being collected?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0020par0198	He made his statement. You don't mean well, you wouldn't say that if you meant well.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0199	Sir, bullshit doesn't agree with nature.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0020par0200	He explained it to our friends, Hajji. Be kind, you mean well.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0201	Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Please... please... let the Head of Religious Affairs defend this, not you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0020par0202	He's made his statement. Don't violate their rights.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0021par0203	Please, don't say anything, Mr. Bronze. Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0204	I'd also like to say that someone who's been a minister, a congressman...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0022par0205	You're taking the right to a servant, Hajji, it didn't work.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0206	...our great book, insulting the Koran, thus insulting the divine, will not be criticised by the Chairman of Religious Affairs, but will he express it in this strange Congress, such as myself?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0023par0208	He explained to our friends. Teacher, those friends of ours have made their statement from here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0022par0209	Teacher, you're entitled to the right of the subject. Now you're going for the subject's rights.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0210	Dear lawmakers, look, look, about this...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0023par0211	That's a shame, that's a shame. That's a shame.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0212	Look, no, please... it's not rude, don't bother.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0024par0213	It's not a shame, he's a partner, he's a partner.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0214	Our Head of Religious Affairs needs to keep an eye on these matters.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0025par0215	You're entering the right of a servant, Hajji, you're entering the right of a slave. You didn't listen to our friends, they made a statement.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0026par0216	Which subject is he in favor of?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0217	Gentlemen, I would like to say that I do not accept that you are a member of the religion and the religion that can ignore the eternal afterlife for the three-day world. Then I believe that political pressures will end after the AKP changes its power, but tomorrow, in the presence of God, anyone who realizes that he will be alone in the eternal world must, in the name of God, take over God's religion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0025par0218	That's how you're gonna take care of it? By slandering me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0026par0219	What slander... even the video.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0220	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out a few words about the foundations. You don't have to be uncomfortable. Look, I'm not mad. My speech is nothing but my excitement and the testimony of my faith.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0027par0222	You're slandering me, Hajji. You're slandering me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0223	Whatever you say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0027par0224	You're slandering me. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0028par0225	You're entitled to the right of a servant.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0226	I'm not slandering you, listen to the press. Dear representatives, dear Regents, I'd like to draw your attention to the foundation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0028par0228	There's a right here. You've got to get some legality.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0029par0229	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0230	The foundation issue is a sad state of our country. There are also victims of rotation, families in divided positions, justice within the ministry, and, as a result, the failure of court decisions. But there is another thing that bothers me as a Turkish person, a son of a conqueror, and a representative of the Ottoman race.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0030par0231	Hodja, don't shout!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0232	Now, look, it may have bothered your ears, but there is a word from a Ziya Pasha called Dide-i Huffash from Ziya. Don't let the telling of the truth disturb you. Here we have to look for the truth, make the findings right. What a disgrace it is to the AKP's power, which was broken down in 1914 at Diyarbakır Surp Giragos Church, during AKP rule in 2010, to bring 150kg of bells from Moscow a hundred years later, or rather, to wear it. We said, "This is a disgrace to Osman/Ezan's silence in his brain."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0031par0234	How's that for Muslim, Hodja?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0235	Don't bother, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0031par0236	Look at the mosques we built in Europe, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0237	Look, don't bother, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0031par0238	Look at the mosques we built in different parts of the world, the big mosques we built in Germany! Are you uncomfortable with them, too?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0239	It's only been a week, I've come from Ohrid.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0031par0240	We're building the biggest mosques in the world, talk about them!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0241	Wait a minute, can I have your attention?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0032par0242	Mr. Bronze...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0243	Why are you talking, why do you feel uncomfortable?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0032par0244	Mr. Bronze, I can't listen to the speaker, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0018par0245	I'm from Ohrid. What should I do if those who built the bell tower of the Armenian church here don't have a problem with the broken minaret of the Ecdat heritage mosque? (Applause from MHP rows) Go look over there. What should we do when we see in West Thrace, in the Balkans, that the artifacts are somehow unique, that the ecclesiastical relics have been taken under the blockade of the crosses at Fort Ohrid? I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing, dear lawmakers. Mr. President, while inviting His Holiness to Turkey, I must commend you for your precious efforts in behalf of world peace and the brotherhood and peace of mankind since you assumed the role of spiritual leader of the Catholic world. I pray that the process of the Alliance of Civilisations, which has been co-chaired by Turkey, which continues to contribute and impact your work under the protection of the United Nations, will reach its goals. In the name of mankind, in the name of Islam, in the name of civilization, I condemn those who can't stand a single stone, who are co-chairs of Spain, on behalf of civilization, and on behalf of the alliance. (Applause from MHP rows) We see what has become of those who have implemented the Great Middle East Project or the Alliance of Civilities project. I'd like to remind you from here that to take care of the country, to take care of the state, to take care of the state, to take care of the honor and the honor, to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0032par0248	Thank you, Your Grace.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0033par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0032par0250	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0033par0251	In the words of the speaker, the non-Turkish, non-Turkish, non-Turkish wretches used a phrase in the words of the speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0034par0252	I said poor people who can't speak Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0033par0253	This expression... look, the poor people who aren't Turkish, the poor ones who can't speak Turkish... I want a say in this frame.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0035par0254	Here you go. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0033par0258	Mr. President, dear friends, we, of course, know our Mustafa Hoxha, we'd like to believe that his intentions are not separatist, separatist. I'd like to point out how dangerous arguments can be about the origins of people in this country, their nationality. And here, of course, when we speak in a healing way, in the seduction of the rhetoric, one can speak without calculating where the word is going, but it's always necessary to have an understanding of where it reaches in the matter of the national unity and unity that we're so sensitive to. I'd like to remind my dear teacher of that above all else. The expression of the poor, non-Turkish ones in the AKP, who can't say their species, is very wrong, and I hope that what I said and what I said about the teacher's intent was not to do so, is that he himself can identify it and express it himself. For one thing, that poor expression is not appropriate. I mean, if I put together a phrase like that, you'd probably be very offended if I said, "I don't know what's in the MHP." It's not appropriate, it's not appropriate.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0036par0261	There isn't, there isn't...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0037par0262	They did, they broke up. They couldn't hold on; they did, they left. They broke up, they broke up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0036par0263	They entered under AKP's wing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0038par0264	It's called my puzzle. I mean, look, when the context you use against a group changes, if it's so hurtful when your subject gets there, it's equally hurtful, I'd like to point out. This is a matter of speaking to friends in Uludağ. They later washed it. If there was a good-willed approach, these people would be taken into account.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0039par0267	You can't have 50 designers, one is wrong, two are wrong... you've become a group!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0038par0268	But, you know, on top of the same expression all the time, it's misleading to assume that there's a political outcome by jumping, so to speak.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0039par0269	The same group doesn't have ten Tevils. Ten separate statements. You've become a mob, a mob!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0038par0270	When we talk about justice and justice to others, we have to be fair and righteous ourselves. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0040par0273	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0041par0274	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0040par0275	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0041par0276	If you'll excuse me, I'd like a say in my testimony.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0042par0277	I didn't. It's in the records.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0040par0278	He didn't twist your statements, just believe my teacher, he'll be able to make those statements. He said, "He didn't twist them."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0042par0279	I said he can fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0043par0280	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to decontent.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0040par0281	Okay. I'm supposed to give it to you, but we're just getting started.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0044par0283	Okay? There's bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0045par0284	No, sir, because of the bullying, because he put the wrong ligature on it. You did it right, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0040par0285	He said the context in a different case, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0046par0287	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I repeat, whether in your statement or in yours, the AKP is not Turkish, it cannot express its Turkishness or its Turkishness...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0047par0289	It's not my testimony, it's your testimony, Mustafa Hajji, it's not Turkish. You said it was Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0046par0290	My statement there is not that you're not Turkish...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0048par0291	He's not in us, he's not in us!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0046par0292	Anyone can be anyone. But I did mention the poor souls who were unable to speak their Turkishness.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0048par0293	He doesn't exist!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0046par0294	I express it in some way, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0048par0296	Who is it? Who is it?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0046par0297	That's what you say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0048par0298	Kim, tell me your name, tell me your name! He doesn't exist! You're slandering me, and you're gonna be a teacher!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0049par0299	You're going by yourself!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0050par0300	It's not a design, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0051par0301	Congressmans, your Group Chairman has requested a word, please. Yes, Mr. Bostanci, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0050par0303	Sir, he has repeated his words, and the poor who can't say there's a Turk in the AKP have used his testimony again. It's a tease.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0052par0304	He's slandering me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0051par0305	Mr. Erdem, did you say there are poor people in the Justice and Development Party who don't speak Turkish?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0053par0306	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0052par0307	Let him take it back, Mr. President, and apologize to the group.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0054par0308	We are Zaza, and I am Zaza, my friend, and no one will force me to Turkishize.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0055par0309	Here you go. Two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0056par0312	Mr. President, dear friends, of course, when you use generalist statements like this, it's unclear who you tell. Now there is a very important assignment for Mustafa Bey. Who is this poor man who can't speak his Turkishness?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0057par0314	President first, President first!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0315	There is no Turkish nation. It's your MP! There is no Turkish nation among you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0056par0316	Mr. Mustafa will come, he will tell you by name who he is, who he is, who he can't tell who's Turkish. Who is it? Who is it? Not in general words, not in general words.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0059par0318	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0319	I'm telling you, there's no Turkish nation among you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0059par0320	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0060par0321	Mr. Nevzat, sit down and sit down.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0322	Look, I'm saying it, I'm saying it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0061par0323	Sit the fuck down! You made a promise?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0324	I tell you: there is no Turkish nation. There is an MP who says, "There is no Turkish nation." Here, I'll give you an example.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0062par0325	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0326	I said it, I said it! Yes, I did, come on! Let's hear it, let's hear it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0062par0327	Mr. Korkmaz!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0328	Come on, say it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0063par0329	Mr. Mustafa speaking here, you don't have to jump.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0330	Look, you asked for a sample, I gave you an example. I gave you an example, for example! I gave you an example!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0063par0331	Whoever Mr. Mustafa is referring to, the future and who he is, he'll tell you who's the loser who can't say it even though he's Turkish.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0332	Brother, there is no Turkish nation. Don't you have a deputy who says: Don't you have a proxy? I'm asking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0063par0333	There's no generalization, there's no talking like that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0334	Don't you have a proxy? I'm asking!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0063par0335	Mr. Nevzat, stop shouting and sit down.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0064par0336	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0337	There is no Turkish nation. Don't you have a deputy who says:
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0064par0338	Mr. Korkmaz, it's not your call.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0339	Answer that! Answer that, answer that!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0065par0340	Here, the AK PARTI Group has done more with the Turkish nation and more about national culture than about the work.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0058par0342	Sir, didn't Yasin Aktay have this conversation? Didn't Yasin Aktay have this conversation? I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0065par0343	Go around the Balkans, travel around the Middle East, and you'll see how the AK PARTY takes care of the work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0066par0346	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0067par0347	It's not dry, it's dry!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0348	Answer me, Hajji! Sir, answer me! Didn't Yasin say Aktay?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0067par0349	It's not dry.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0350	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0351	Isn't that what Yasin Aktay said? I'm asking you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0352	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0353	There is no Turkish nation, there is no Turkish nation. Didn't he say so, brother?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0354	Mr. Korkmaz!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0070par0355	Throw him out.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0356	There is no Turkish nation. Didn't he say so, brother?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0357	Mr. Korkmaz, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0071par0358	But we ask questions, we want answers.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0359	You asked for a sample, I gave you an example.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0360	Okay, then they'll talk, and they'll talk to each other. Do you have that kind of language?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0361	You asked for an example, I gave you an example, you tell me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0362	Mr. Korkmaz, please... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0364	What happened? Were you crushed by this example? Why can't you answer? Why can't you answer?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0072par0365	What an example! What example? What an example!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0366	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0367	Why can't you answer? Do you have an answer?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0368	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0073par0369	Sir, throw it out.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0068par0370	Do you have an answer?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0371	Mr. Vural, will you step in? You were just asking me for a favor.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0074par0372	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has said something, give me a name. He said, Mr. Korkmaz gives a name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0373	Okay, we don't have that kind of language right now. He can name it himself later. I now have to continue to work according to the Parliament's Charter. You can tell me later.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0075par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0375	Please, Mr. Korkmaz... there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0076par0376	They want the name, they get the name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0075par0377	They can't. They're under it, they're under it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0378	Members of parliament, there was an objection to the speech of Mr. Naci Bostancı, who spoke on behalf of the National Movement Party, Mr. Atila Kaya. So I filed the reports, I read the transcripts. Of course, Mr. President will be criticized, and other institutions can be criticised. This is the people's stand. Of course, you have the right to voice your criticism and I have the undying respect, but as stated in Article 104 of the Constitution, the President is the head of the state and represents the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, as with other institutions here, as well as the president's budget and final account, I would like to ask that the statements to Mr. President be made in a more formal manner, in accordance with the information described in the Constitution, in accordance with the regulation. This request applies to any institution where you make your criticisms when you do your reviews in all budget speeches. I hope the budget talks will be mutually respectful and loving. I'm uncomfortable, and I'm sorry for my voice in advance.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0077par0380	Let's get you some rest, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0069par0381	I'd love to, but I can't. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 The talks of the National Party of Action are over. We will now hear the opinion of the Republican People's Party Group. The first speaker, Mr. Attila Kart, is the MP of the Conium. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the presidential budget. I salute the General Assembly. A covert grant journey with Maksut Serims, convicted of fraud, was introduced in the July 11, 2003, in the daily Sabah, with the title "Special Team of Erdoğan" (Special Team) of Erdoğan. ▪ What about the money of the victims of Islam? It's a shame, isn't it? Isn't that a sin? On the other hand, isn't there an afterlife? Tell him, Mr. Enver, who roared in 2001 as Mr. Enver, the AKP's president of the period was unable to hear the cries of the Ihlaszede Gazal Polats and hundreds of thousands of conglomerates at the end of the 12 years, trying to speak from Bingol Square on 30 May 2009. TELEKOM, Sedişehir METI Aluminium, Balıkesir SEKA, Kuşadasi, Ceşme TÜPRAŞ privatisations, the introduction of a photo showing the use of privatisations as tools and methods for corruption, a photo showing the use of them with communication, security, intelligence of a country, and the foundation of pool media: Yasin El Kadidis, Mustafa Latif Latif, Genghisuvlers, and TGürv. My dear friends, dozens of examples of this list can be expressed. I'm suggesting that you have a sense of governance, a character of management. Look, I'm not talking about individual and position applications; I'm talking about the institutional understanding of a political staff. What is that understanding? It's not about government management, it's about government takeover. Unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party has taken a serious distance at this point. The question is, at what cost is this distance taken, and at what cost? Society's beliefs, identities, segregation over lifestyles, the sabotage of social peace, socioeconomic distribution of revenues to the brink of injustice. The constitutional institutions of the Republic of Turkey have now lost its function. In addition, the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens of the Republic of Turkey are threatened. Because of this painting, the valued MPs, Soma, Ermeneks, Uluderes, TÜRGEV, are unquestionable and untested. Turkey has become a country ruled by illegal orders and instructions, where effective applications have been exhausted, administratively and forensically. The dramatic and dire thing is, in the sequel of all of this, the actual situation is that Mr. Erdogan, the original perpetrator and responsible for this painting, is now President of the Republic of Turkey. In Turkey, the constitutional system is surrounded by Erdogan, locked down. The system operates to the extent that Erdogan is compatible with his personal and political interests. The parliamentary system has been rendered ineffective, and the period of the actual constitutional coup is being carried out through illegal orders and instructions in Turkey. Mr. Erdogan, who is responsible for this painting, wants to take refuge in the fugitive palace at the end of this entire process, to protect himself and his staff. However, the historical and sociological truth that should not be forgotten is that Turkey cannot be president of Kabataş and Valide Sultan Mosque events, Ali Ismail Korkmazlar, Berkin Elvans, a politician who wants to separate it from the Uluderes. Write that down, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0079par0441	Did you say 52 percent?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0442	Turkey is now a country ruled by illegal palaces, registering and illegal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0079par0443	Did you say 52 percent?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0444	The 1,800 living rooms in mines cannot be discussed by a budget that will ensure the safety of tens of thousands of miners.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0079par0445	Work will be yours, too. Please don't jinx it, work it, it'll be yours.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0446	That would be unfair to the concept of budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0079par0447	Work, work! You have to work hard.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0448	The technical assessment of such a budget cannot be done. In fact, the Ermenekite Emish Baha, Ayþe and Recep Gökçes have made this discussion, ended it and named it after it. Our woman named Emish Baha is screaming, what does she say? First they steal our bread, then they steal our labor, and then they take our lives, he says. The cry of the Emiş Bahas, my son did not know how to swim. Recep Gökceler, who showed a solemn stance in the innocence and the human values expressed by Ayþe Gökçe, gave the president a lesson, reminded him of his duty, gave him human and social warnings. My dear friends, with a sense of politics that doesn't recognize any ethical principles, Mr. President actually has an anarchist sense of politics -- I don't say that philosophically, I mean pragmatically. If this understanding of governance is maintained, it is inevitable that the journey that begins with covert funding and forgery will end in the dangers of the illegal palace.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0080par0451	The People's Palace.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0452	Citizens of the Republic of Turkey, despite the President, are legally and constitutionally involved in civil disobedience and the right to stand...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0081par0454	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0455	...they will enjoy social peace, and they will rebuild the republic's achievements and democracy together.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0082par0456	The People's Palace.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0078par0457	With these evaluations, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0083par0459	Thank you. The second speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party is Mr. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0084par0464	Mr. President, representatives of the national will, members of parliament, we're interviewing the draft of the Year of the Budget Law, number 656, and the draft of Central Management's Final Accounting Law, number 657, in 2013. I'm going to try to share with you on behalf of the CHP Group, my views on the TBMM and the Court. Dear MPs, the 2015 budget is the final budget of the 24th term. Therefore, I think it would be necessary and beneficial for Turkey to consider the 24th term of the Grand National Assembly as a whole. The 24th term began with negativity. Some of our friends, who were chosen in the event of national will, were trapped behind bars in a concrete room. As CHP, we showed a silence of national will. However, we were unable to find support from the government or the presidency of the TBM. Mr. Gülser Yıldırım of BDP, Selma Irmak, Faysal Sarıyıldıldız, İbrahim Ayhan and Kemal Aktaş were arrested for the trial of Mr. Mustafa Balbay and Mehmet Haberal Ergenekon of the CHP; Mr. Engin Alan Balyoz of the MHP. They said, "It is essential that the MPs elected by national will be tried without arrest." They said, "They did not keep their promises." Mr. Cemil Cicek, president of the TBMM, was unable to perform his presidential position. Just about that? TV broadcasts were restricted, only 14 hours a week allowed during 24 hours a day. Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has shown no respect for the right to public information. Laws, laws and illegal procedures were issued in parliament. The bullying of the commissions has been ignored. The proposal and laws were not considered in violation of the Constitution, nor were they discussed in the commissions. While the ministers' ads were screened in the commissions, the opposition's criticisms were taken out so as not to be reflected on the screens. The president of the TBM was missing, and it turns out he was traveling abroad for the first 19 months, obviously not taking the remote control device with him. The last trick was bringing a parking ban on media members. When his party was destroying the trees, the grass, he had the press parking lot plant grass. What about facilitating media-released organs, spreading public reflection? The travel events, corruption files, have been tried to hide from our people by banning their broadcasts. In any case, the president of the TBM said, "I don't have authority." There's never been such an ineffective and unauthorized Speaker. Because, Mr. President, he never felt like the president of the TBM, he couldn't save himself from the identity of the prime minister of the period. A public relations building, such as the mall, was put on the stand on the Capitol campus. Instead of costing more than 130 million, the old building was to be renovated with 20 million, and he stayed away from it, trying to tear it down.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0085par0471	Do you live there, too?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0084par0472	Many motions have been assessed as representatives of the government, not processed. Parliamentary MPs have been restricted from using their budget rights for the nation, and the president of the TBMM has done all those years of legislatures and ministries. The Constitutional Compromise Commission was established, 13 meetings were held in 12 counties, and the result was a failure. The Civil Code has been attempted to change, and the result is still a failure. Mr. President's got a lot of work to do...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0085par0474	Have you just entered the building, Governor?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0084par0475	I don't have enough time, Mr. Bronze. Mr. President has a lot of work to do, so let's not get ahead of ourselves. He soon built his presidential residence. May the Reverend Lady and her family have a good time. The staff parking lot is nice. We've got the President of the Report Service and our stenographers working well, and we thank them, along with the other good employees. However, how did Mr. Secretary General allow him to talk about the Constitutional Court, it's no surprise. Is it ethical, appropriate, or traditional? Mr. TBMM's president has called the President of the Constitutional Court Memli. Is he jealous because the lawmakers he's not interested in have been released because they have no right to a fair trial? Did he also mark Mr. Hashim Kılıç, who was appointed as chairman of the Constitutional Court at a young age by Turgut Özal? Is this the conclusion that the Constitutional Court annulled the laws that violate the Constitutional Court by not acting sensitive and responsible? There are also palace corruption, Mr Malik Ecder Özdemir will explain, so let's not go into details. But then, near a nobleman of the AKP, a tender was given to the company, not built, as if they had been mowed down before the child was born, and chopped up on onions in the butcher's meat. To the Court: The only court in the world that doesn't really use budgetary rights is our Court. The Report Evaluation Board was established to turn the reports of honest and honest auditors into birds, and the reports were empty. From here, Mr. Vecdi Gonul, I pay my respects to my brother. Where is the Court of Governor Vecdi Gönul, where is the Court of Governor Recai Akyel? Mr. President has the right to speak here under Article 62 of the Civil Code. We want to know one thing, there's a lot of things: did the bank take over the Attorney General of the People's Bank for which millions of dollars were caught in the shoebox? Is it the bank's job to keep dollars in a shoebox? What's the report on that? Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and the Court are no good, you have the floor. I'd like to extend my regards to the lawmakers and my fellow citizens, who are acting on their own authority, acting on their own free will.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0086par0483	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Mr. Hüseyin Aygün, the Tunceli MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0087par0488	Thank you, Mr. President. For the past few days, we have faced a new campaign targeting congregation police officers for the murder of Hrant Dink (Hrant Dink) seven years ago. For the past seven years, two people who were behind the killer Samast have not been identified, nor have their statements been taken. It turns out that they were members of a parallel structure linked to the Istanbul Police Department, and the prosecutor decided to investigate these police officers after Samast had sent a letter from prison. That's why I'm telling you, my friends, that Nihat Omaroglu, head of the Public Control Agency, was appointed President after a major ads were established, and immediately after that, the decision under which Ömeroğlu was signed was proved to be dead. As soon as the institution was established, Omeroglu became suspicious from the beginning because of his signature. It is possible to understand and explain Omaroglu's adventure by telling a little bit about the Society for Public Control. Because he answered questions about this incident, and because of my signature, my conscience is not aching, my conscience is clear." he said. You know, he insulted Turkishness. Hrant was condemned, and I can't live in this country." He said, after a series of campaigns, he was murdered, and at some point he was tried to connect with Ergenekon, or something like that, the Hrant Dink case. Now, today we're learning that parallel structure is the work of the community police. So it's not up to a man like me to defend the congregation, but I'm one of those people who knows what the AKP is, how the revolutionaries are arresting people with conspiracies, how they're putting false evidence in their homes, how they're putting room TV people and an old torturer together in the same case, and I'm sure a very large part of Turkey knows. But what I'm saying is that there can only be such a difficult legal regime in Turkey to destroy such a vicious, unfair, parallel structure, and I want to tell you how this institution has accomplished nothing in the field of human rights since Nihat Ömeroğlu became President. Now, when we established this institution here, the members of the Human Rights Commission also gave a lot of talks. For example, ministers shouldn't appoint seven members here, human rights organizations should include volunteers to work in these institutions, and they should be co-operated with NGOs. None of this was taken into account. As a result, on June 14, 2012, the institution's law was published in the Official Gazette, and it began its activities. With this budget, this institution will be paid 15 trillion dollars and 368 billion dollars, and this institution has 246 personnel. I'm guessing some of the people listening to this session here are employees of this institution. Of course, we're paying that much money; we've appointed 15 and a half trillion people, and I wonder what this institution has done in two years, what it's done, what it's done, it needs to be brief. Only four people have applied to this institution in two years for four civil rights violations. One of them said: "I am a Christian, I do not want to take a religious lesson." The other said: "I am autismist, the examination was not done according to me. " Someone else said, "My teachers are changing very often, my right to education is violated. Again, a citizen is seen in GBT, although my record has been erased. This is a violation of rights." In these four applications, the institution made a positive decision and advised the relevant institutions. By the way, the four reports he must submit under law -- he wrote four reports in just two years -- have not submitted them to the TBMP, and they have not published them until now, even though they have an obligation to publish them. Apart from these four human rights applications, the agency has concluded about 7,000 or so administrative applications so far. That's interesting. So I have this problem with municipalities, I have a parking problem, different things. So there have been 7,000 or so applications for administrative bureaucracy, not for human rights violations by the state, but for the functioning of the administrative mechanism, and the commission has made interesting decisions about them. In fact, the 7,000 applications are not directly related to political human rights violations. For example, when the agency arrived, Mr. Omaroglu wrote a very masterpiece report that was very fitting for Mr. Omeroglu, which was his signature on the massacre of Hrant Dink. I told him here last year. This institution, for example, has written a report that describes its hikers, as Erdogan described it, in the archive of the institution. I think, in the future, when the history of the human rights movement is written, this report of this institution, which says "Travel," will probably be taught to new generations. Friends, I mean, the biggest human loss I've seen in years has been in Kobani protests, 50 people have died in two days. On October 6th and 7th, 50 people died in every city in Turkey, İzmir, İstanbul, Diyarbakır, Bitlis, all around. In some places, members of the HAK-PAR used some dark hands and 50 people died. What investigations have been conducted about the deaths of 50 people, who killed who, who pulled the trigger, no one knows who pulled the trigger, and our Public Control Agency and our Turkish Human Rights Agency, the two institutions established by this law, have never done any research on Kobani or 50 people who died on October 6-7. Think of a Human Rights Institution, where 50 people die in two days in Turkey, and it doesn't bother him; it's very interesting. Guys, I told you that the applications to this agency are about administrative mechanisms, so let me put it to you concretely. Citizens of social security and TOKI have applied, meaning that the civic institution is so unreliable, that the government is aware that there is a meaningless institution in parallel with the government that no human rights breaches. For example, no one who's been injured, who's been in prison for a long time, who's been beaten, who's been violated, has applied to this institution. Therefore, the institution can't possibly brag enough about this painting. The people who founded it, they set it up to work just like this, keep it in the picture, 246 staff paid for nothing, and there's a civilian human rights control mechanism in Turkey. They set it up to create perception. As I see it, Mr. Nihat Omaroglu and his 246 friends are acting in line with this prospect, this mission, and I can't congratulate them enough. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit01spe0088par0502	Thank you. Congressmans, it's 14 o'clock for the merger. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0088par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Reza Türmen will speak. Here you go, Mr. Specten, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0089par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to say a few words about the Constitutional Court's budget. Why is there a Supreme Court? First of all, the Constitutional Court exists to limit power, to ensure that the use of power remains within the limits set by the Constitution, drawn by the law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court defines the limits of power's powers, allowing it to remain within those limits. It's important because the democratic legitimacy of power comes from this, and it can have that legitimacy as long as it stays within those limits. If the ruling Constitutional Court does not recognise the verdicts, if it rejects independence, if the judiciary does not recognise the verdicts, then the legitimacy will be undermined, the legitimacy of power will be undermined. Of course, it is no longer valid to see legitimacy based solely on elections. Now, that's the problem with Turkey, which is exactly what we have in Turkey. I mean, the government doesn't want to be within the limits set by the judiciary, it can't accept the judgment to draw its own jurisdiction. There are many examples of this. For example, this is the Ataturk Forest Farm, where the State has decided to stop running the palace. The Prime Minister at the time says if they can afford it, let them destroy it. They've stopped the operation, they won't be able to stop this building. I'm going to open it, and I'm going to sit in it, and I'm going to sit in it. Again, Mr. Prime Minister of that period says: "I don't think it's right that the Constitutional Court should make such a decision two days ago by applying it directly to them." Now, friends, the Constitutional Court's decisions are not categorized by. Or, again, Mr. Prime Minister of the period says that the Supreme Court should know its authority, position and limitation regarding the HSYK decision. He should be careful what he does, what he says. I always say, anyone who wants to do politics gets out of his seat. Now, judges, of course, don't have to make the decisions that power likes. Of course, it is natural that there is such tension between power and judgment, whether it is the Constitutional Court or other high judicial bodies. But what's unnatural is that the power clearly says that I don't know the decisions, that these decisions don't concern me. One of the best examples of this, of course, is what Mr. Elitas said a while ago, saying that perhaps 300 percent of the 550 MPs in Turkey's Grand National Assembly are in accordance with the Constitutional Court, 17 members of the Constitutional Court are not appropriate. Would such a thing happen? I mean, even if there's a law here that 550 people say yes, if 17 members of the Constitutional Court say it's a violation of the Constitution or a violation of an individual right, that's it, then it's not in accordance with the Constitution or the law, sir. The Constitutional Court does that. Now, of course, when that happens, it turns out that there's such a theoretical discrepancy between the Constitutional judiciary and the idea of power, so you have to overcome that theoretical discrepancy so that there's democracy in Turkey, the state of law and the democratic legitimacy of power don't get corrupted. So without this mental, theoretical incompatibility, it won't be possible to talk about such a legal state in Turkey. I'd like to say two more things about the Constitutional Court: the Constitutional Court has performed very well in these individual applications. I mean, he's really been a liberal, human rights protector, democraticist, and a man who's embraced the European Court of Human Rights. The Supreme Court, which has internalized that drink, can look at it from the perspective of the European Court of Human Rights, which is very important. This is not something we've seen before in Turkey, and this, of course, has a great significance, a great impact because the European Court of Human Rights is also putting principles in the Turkish judiciary. However, there is a problem with the Constitutional Court, which I see in the Constitutional Court's Constitutional Court's Law on the Foundation and Judiciary Code, it is said that there can be no direct application against the procedures and regulatory administrative procedures. The Constitutional Court also states that violations carried out by public power can be subject to individual application. So now, whether it's legislation or regulatory administrative procedures, regulations, there's no public power behind it, is there not? So there's a contradiction here between the principle in the Constitution and this principle in its establishment law -- Article 148 is the Constitution's Law -- that needs to be resolved. Another issue is the Supreme Election Board's decision. What the OSCE election observation committee wrote in its latest presidential election report is that it is not in line with OSCE commitments and other international obligations, but should not apply to a judicial authority against the Supreme Election Board's decisions and the Constitutional Court must arrange that an application office be created against the Supreme Election Board's decisions. There is a great need for an arrangement on this road. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0090par0017	Thank you, too, Mr. Specten. The fifth speaker of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk, Zonguldak MP. Here you go, seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0091par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Supreme Court on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group in the 2015 budget talks. First of all, I salute the High Council. The Supreme Court is the final review of decisions and provisions issued by the court's courts according to Article 154 (the Constitution) and not left to another judicial authority under the law; it also serves as the first and supreme court in certain cases, in some cases set by law. In this regard, as a high court of independent justice, the Supreme Court is under the duty and responsibility of the Supreme Court to ensure the independence of the judiciary, our legal state, our basic rights and freedoms, and at the same time, to maintain and maintain the sense of justice in our country. However, it is not possible to be able to say that our high courts, the State of Justice, and the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court, have fulfilled their duties in this area, as well as their responsibilities in this area, as well as the sense of justice in the field of justice as possible. Precious lawmakers have been seen by their practices so far that AKP is not intended to form a strong, fair and effective judicial order, but rather, it is clear that AKP is intending to establish a biased judicial order based on eliminating the principle of dissolution and judicial independence. In the meantime, all the institutions of the judiciary, all of our high courts, have taken their share of their share in this goal and its interference with this goal, and by the way, our high courts have taken their share in a very heavy way. As a matter of fact, since the establishment of power, the Court's workload has increased as much as possible, the files have fallen from the statute of limitations, and in February 2008, a provision limiting the number of members of the Supreme Court to the number of agencies has been put on the agenda of the Justice Commission and has been placed on the Charter's agenda, as long as the number of members of the Supreme Court does not fall below 150. Dear lawmakers, the ruling of the Justice and Development Party, which saw that the Commission could not enforce this bill on intense pressure from its internal and external legal environments at the time, has now entered into its effort to lock down the Supreme Court, in which it considers that the Court of Appeals Article 29 has failed to control, in the case of the number of ejaculated members of the Supreme Court, in which the number of members of the Supreme Court finds 10° has been elected within two months, and again, 34 members of the 250 members of the Supreme Court have been cleared of the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, the AKP made this effort to block the Supreme Court's membership election until it changed the structure of the HSYK with its 2010 referendum. After the 2010 referendum, the AKP, the Justice Department, and the HSYK, which has been created by the intervention of its known ally, and has been converted into a second deputy minister of the Ministry of Justice, the number of members of the Supreme Court, which has been asked to reduce to 150, has also been raised to 38. At the same time, the AKP, which supports the continuation of this staffing, with conspiracy and false evidence and illegal proceedings, is also involved in the attempt to legitimise illegal decisions, by not only watching our intellectuals, our students, our professors, our long and unjust imprisonments, our basic rights and freedoms be eliminated, but also by using the Supreme Court, as in the example of the Sledgehammer. Dear lawmakers, the effort of the focus of power and impotence to design this judiciary and the Supreme Court together has lasted until December 17th and 25th investigations, as we all know. After the biggest corruption investigations of this century, which led to the top of power, yesterday's ally became an enemy, and the parallel structure of this judiciary is being hit by the government through its judgment. A major liquidation operation has begun in both the security and the judiciary. Again, as a continuation of this operation, a legal regulation that changed the structure of the Supreme Court was brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey last month, and it was enforced in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Dear friends, by this law, the number of apartments that must be reduced from 387 to 516, to 20, has been increased from 38 to 46, from 38, to 46, from 387, to 150, when more than 1,500,500,000 cases came to the Supreme Court in 2008. So, not only that, but with new members to be appointed, and with the new presidential board to be formed, the first presidential board has been given the authority to determine which apartments the office heads, its members and its examiners will be in, and which apartment to look at the discrepancies in. Furthermore, the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, the appointment of the Supreme Court's Supreme Court of Appeals, has been removed from the Supreme Court's initiative in the appointment of the Supreme Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court has been completely eliminated by interference in the internal functioning of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a lot to say, but we're running out of time. As a result, the fundamental basis of democracy and the legal state is independent judgment, but the conclusion of all of this is that there is no democracy in our country today, and there is no way to talk about judicial independence. Today, in our country, the only man who can replace democracy with the party state is the dictatorship, and the place of an independent judiciary is the AKP's judiciary, a shield for corruption, and therefore, the re-establishment of democracy in the face of such a grave picture, the re-establishment of independent judiciary in our country.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0092par0031	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0091par0032	...it is possible not only with budget practices, but also with a new publicist government that believes in the state of law, has not lost its sense of justice, does not use corruption as a shield.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0092par0033	Mr. Kokturk, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0091par0034	We believe that we will create this power together with our people. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0092par0037	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0093par0038	June, I hope. June. May it be June 2015.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0092par0039	The sixth speaker from the Republican People's Party is Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP. Here you go, seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0094par0042	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Council's budget for 2015. But, again, as I've always said, in this room where there's talk of such an important budget, especially the lack of our friends from the AKP Group, the fact that we don't have a legislature, it really upsets us as lawmakers who run law enforcement. In this regard, Mr. Group Vice Presidents will probably take the necessary precautions. The prosecution was founded in 1868 as a Sûra-yi State, as we all know. At the same time, 1924 was reorganised in the Constitutions of 1961 and 1982. Lastly, the Law of the State is still in effect under the Act 2575, dated 1982. What does the Court's audit report say about the budget for the Chief Prosecutor's Office of 2013? When I looked at them, my dear lawmakers, they said: "There is no action plan for risks involving strategic planning and IT systems, such as the internal control unit, which has its duty to check legal fitness after the trial, to inform the senior manager of the circumstances that need to be investigated." Since IT systems are now very important to all judicial bodies -- such as the UYAP system -- it's not really the right way to approach the fact that a team of geniuses who manages such risks is still not in the State Department. As a result, the units that should be in accordance with the Law on Financial Management and Control 5018 are unfortunately not in the Court. It's not fit for this high court, and I think these shortcomings need to be repaired as soon as possible. Besides, there are other things that don't suit me, and I'd like to share them with you. The 9th article of our Constitution states that jurisdiction is used by independent courts in the name of the Turkish Nation. Again, the judiciary is clear against all actions of Article 125. In Article 155, the Council of Ministers, its organisation, its operation, the President, the Attorney General, its representatives, its members' qualifications and election procedures, the property of the administrative judiciary, the independence of the courts and the assurance of judgment are regulated according to law. However, all these constitutional regulations, unfortunately, have been ignored, ignored after the September 12, 2010 referendum, and, contrary to these regulations, legal regulations have been made. Finally, on 9 February 2011, 8 August 2011 -- and not even in legal regulations -- in 2012 and 2013, we redesigned the Constitution on 2 December 2014. The principle of independence and natural justice was completely destroyed, especially with these provisions, especially with the latest arrangement. In 2011, new apartments were formed to be redesigned, 61 new members were appointed, while now the number of members is being increased. Unfortunately, in this 2011 design work, the AKP Group failed to design because the majority of the newly acquired 61 members came out of the community and continued its attempts to redesign when the partnership split. Finally, this design study, the study of the State's commitment to execution, was organised by the December 2, 2014 law. In this law, the number of apartments has been raised from 15 to 17, the number of members has been increased from 156 to 195, which means the power of the Council of Presidents is very large, taken from a large board of heads of the departments, vice presidents and Chief of State, to the presidential council of only seven members. These are the three members of the Court, the three heads of the department, and the president of the State. The natural outcome is that the decisions can be made by four people. What decisions will this board make, and what decisions will the board decide with four people? If we look at this, with the latest arrangement, the Constitution has been violated, especially when it states that the heads of departments, members, examination judges, will be elected and elected for four years, while the Constitutional Article 155/4 will be elected head of department. This is exactly the sort of thing, dear MPs: it's such an anomaly that the elected mayors of the city are to be left to the Ministry of Interior, but unfortunately, this past has passed through the Parliament, passed through the AKP's votes. Again, the presidential board has been authorized to determine or alter the cases the agencies are facing. This is against the principle of a natural judge. When a case is being handled, the presidential board can change the apartment of that case, and it can change the judges of that case. Again, he'll be able to decide whether to prosecute disciplinary action against the heads of the department or members. In the same way, the presidential board's decisions would be final, but the previous application had the right to appeal to the General Assembly. With the latest change, non-lawyer members elected by the President will be able to serve in the prosecution offices. That means there will be a militant and observer of Erdogan in each apartment. Now, why is all this being done? Let's see from the cases in the practice: that the privatisation of the mines that became a killing machine should not be cancelled so that the Galataport tenders -- you know, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had accused the judges and courts of treason -- that the privatisations that were intended for corruption, plundering and destroying the privatisations were not cancelled, so that the privatisation of the mines that became a killing machine -- nuclear plants, HESESTs, wind plants, wind plants, cyanide gold mines, were not to be annulled in an unfair and illegal way so that they could not be annulled. As a result, the design of the judiciary was designed to prevent one-party dictatorship, corruption, bribery, bribery, anti-legal regulations, the collapse of the republic. We're aware of that, Mr. AKP MPs. We won't let that happen. You will not wash the Republic. You won't be able to eliminate secularism. We will not allow privatisations to destroy all the values of our country, the values earned in the Republic. You will see our resistance together, just as the Beden workers resisted, as the Turkish Chamber of Architects and Engineers resist today, if the League of Bars resists. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All your metal batons and all your laws will never stop us from fighting.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0095par0050	Thank you, Mr. Akagun Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0094par0051	I salute the lawmakers who deserve it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0095par0053	Thank you. And now it's time for the Republican People's Party to speak for Mr. Kamer Gençëte, the Tunceli MP. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0096par0057	Mr. President, we're discussing the budget of the state of Turkey in 2015. In fact, we are not discussing the budget of the state of Turkey, we are discussing the budget of Recep Erdogan and his family because every penny of this budget is spent by order of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Think about it. There's 35 quadrillion lira funds out of control. There's over $36 billion in spending. There is a court, a court of God, a court that obeys the order of the Court, does not conduct any inspections, so they do not conduct any inspections. Recep Erdogan sits down, decides to spend whatever he wants to spend on whatever he wants to do. And, members of lawmakers, in their opinion, they've found a fetishist called Aston Karaman. In the past, this Instigator Karaman gave a decree saying: "Sir, it is lawful for you to take 30 percent of the benefit if you benefit anyone in the government's office, if you benefit certain people." What did they do? Look, the Seabank kept these for $69 million they sold to the hard conglomerate. The difficult conglomerate soon sold it for $2.4 billion; it came and bought the land of the highway; there were 386 000 square metres of illegal construction. In view of this fetish of Izkdin Bey, someone stepped in and bought a 20 per cent stake in that 386 thousand square metres, where the illegal construction was removed. Recep Erdogan issued a statement. You know, there was a very valuable coupon land in Istanbul, and Mr. Recep was angry when he sold the coupon land. How can you sell land outside my command when I have to sell all the land of the state in this country? Now, Mr. Recep and his family have land to enter into, not if they are sold against his command. Can you imagine, I mean, someone so arbitrary, so unlawful. Now, my dear friends, it's such a budget that there's no audit here. Look, we're on the CSI Commission. The audits on the CSI Commission are going through a lot of sales. The People's Bank is bringing it in, giving a company $575 million in loans, some of the land he's taking out, some of the land he's taking out, some of the treasure land and bank loans are going under. They're saying that $5 million at the home of the Public Bank General Manager is not government money. Who says that? It says Mr. Recep. Again, a bank lends a loan; its expert determines a value of $214,000, and they take guarantees over 20 million and loans. I mean, the whole state's been slacked off, the whole place. Now, we say to Ahmet Davutoglu: Brother, look, according to Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it belongs to the Prime Minister and you are responsible with the ministers. Now, are you the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister? Let's find out first. Now, if you're Prime Minister, Erdogan comes out and talks for you every day...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0097par0065	Mr. Speaker, I must interrupt you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0096par0066	No, no...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0097par0067	I'll add it to your time. You were probably not here, and I gave a warning, reminding you of Article 104 of the Constitution. There...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0096par0068	If you add to my time, I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0097par0069	If you'll excuse me, I'll add it to your time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0096par0070	Look, guys, now, this Vice President doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0097par0071	Would you stop that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0096par0073	After Erdoğan was elected President, he suddenly took an oath...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0098par0074	Mr. Kamer, just a second...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0097par0075	In my statement, I said, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0099par0076	Why are you interrupting him?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0100par0077	You can't interrupt him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0101par0078	He didn't make that vow right either.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0102par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0103par0080	...the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0104par0081	Why are you shutting up, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0103par0082	I'm cutting...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0105par0083	Time to add.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0103par0084	...is the President of the State and represents the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0106par0085	He's supposed to be objective.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0103par0086	And I also said, whoever's in the presidency, let's use a respectful language for the presidency and other authorities. I ask you to use a clean language and a respectful language, and I invite you to do so. I'll add the time to your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0107par0089	Okay.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0108par0090	Mr. President, before the time begins, there is no financial error in the evaluations made by your honor. I mean, I think it must have been terribly wrong of you to stop talking like that. So there's no insult in his speech.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0109par0091	No insults, no insults!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0110par0092	How can you not insult me? He's clearly slandering me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0093	Members of parliament, in my understanding, I would like to inform you that a representative of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0109par0094	You're interrupting the deputy!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0095	...any member of parliament who serves in the People's Assembly is not addressed by his first name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0112par0096	No way!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0109par0097	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0098	There's such a reality in my manners and respect, I said something like that in action.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0113par0099	Mr. President, you've performed an app we haven't encountered here, and you've interrupted the speaker's speech.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0100	I can interrupt you by taking this authority from the Civil Code. I'll add the time I cut to the speaker's time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0113par0101	The rule has freedom and integrity. I mean, before our friend's speech is over, he's got a certain way of speaking and...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0114par0102	Mr. President, the Civil Charter has implemented 66. If Mr. Sky reads 66...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0103	Mr. Sky, please, I have such authority, I had to enforce it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0113par0104	It's wrong to cut off the reservation. So I resent your attitude.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0105	I repeat, there is no such thing as bias against anyone here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0115par0106	You've been giving a lot of speeches.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0107	I've got a charter in front of me, I've got the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0116par0108	There's no such thing in the history of Congress.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0109	Please take your place, MPs. Read Article 66 again, please. I can't judge not only the President, but the Prime Minister, and the ministers, and all the MPs who serve here by their first name in respect, that was my objection.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0117par0111	Is that why you're interrupting?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0112	I also did my interrupting according to Article 66 of the Civil Code, please read it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0118par0113	But there was no match for him, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0111par0114	Please, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0115	Mr. President, of course, you just got here, you're not used to it. Look, I've spoken here a few times, and I said: Recep Tayyip Erdoğan made an oath here after he was elected President. In that oath, he said the word "Ataturk" to his principles and letters, the "Ataturk principle" and the "inquisitors."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0120par0117	Yeah, get over it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0118	I've listened to seven semesters of vows here. That wasn't made according to the oath. Erdogan, who has not been sworn in according to procedure, has not gained the status of President. If you take this, this is the text of the oath here in TRT. I object, Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek hasn't answered me yet. Look, you've answered my question. Now, friends, he says: "Do not address anyone by name. " My name is always Kamer Young. I'm not ashamed of my own name. If others are ashamed of their names... I call them by their names. I call them by their names because I don't give them the right to a position because I don't think of them as the people in that position.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0121par0120	Are you going to decide who suits where?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0121	So, that's my way of speaking, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0121par0122	People are deciding, people!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0123	That's my way of speaking. No, sir...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0121par0124	You don't decide who suits where!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0125	I, now, don't call Recep Tayyip Erdogan the President because he hasn't earned the position of President. We'll sue him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0121par0126	The nation made him president! It's not your call to make!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0127	Sir, look, now, you know, he's been through corruption, and you don't want us to talk about it here. Now, if it is necessary to speak in such a clean language today, would it be such a call when Ahmet Davutoglu here yesterday said that you were the coupgers? Then why did Cemil Cicek, who sat on the chair of parliament, not give Ahmet Davutoglu a warning? Friends, you're a coupger to an entire political party. Can you say that? Who's the coupger? Could it be a coupger?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0122par0130	Anyone who sides with the coup is a coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0123par0131	You're the coupger, you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0132	After that, I mean, someone who doesn't know how to address...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0123par0133	You're a coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0134	In fact, he should be there to warn and interrupt. You're the ruling party, Mr. AKP people. I'm ashamed. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0124par0136	Shame on you for being from CHP, yes!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0125par0137	Look at you, look at you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0138	It's not like I've been embarrassed to talk about your corruption, your thefts over and over again, and yours weren't ashamed to do it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0125par0140	Look in the mirror!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0141	Now, look, what's Amazing Karaman saying today? ▪ Corruption, not theft. He says, gives. You know why? On December 17th and December 25th, he gives the fatwa at your command, not corruption, not theft. What do you mean? There's been corruption. Look, on December 17th, on December 25th, AKP's ministers were caught in the act of theft and corruption. Erdoğan phoned his son on that day: "Son, have you reset the money?" No, Daddy, I haven't reset it, there are 30 million euros there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0126par0142	Don't talk to the tape, don't talk to the assembly! Don't talk to the montage!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0143	Where did that money go? Why did these prosecutors...? After that, Bekir Bozdağ deposed all prosecutors, deposed all judges. What kind of justice is that? Is there a law in a state like this? Look, in America, men are... Where there's no law, there's no peace, there's no right to live where there's no law. And this process of solutions... What is this solution process? If the solution process is to divide the state of the Republic of Turkey, we're against it, but if you're raising the standards of democracy with the solution process, then yes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0127par0145	You don't have the brains, you don't have the brains!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0146	Why are you hiding it? The bride is here... In the event that this country is divided, I urge everyone to do their duty.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0127par0147	Speak your mind.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0148	Look, guys, there are people waiting for this in a lot of places in the West, especially in the West, so if there's a situation like this, then let's take away people's property from the east and southeast. There are people who are looking for an internal rebellion, and I have to warn them. For him, we all benefit from the integrity of the secular state of the Republic of Turkey. Let's raise the standards of democracy in Turkey, let's all speak freely, but let's not try to divide this country. Now that Recep Erdogan is rich, he's taken refuge in the palace, where he's brought 5,000 police, he thinks he'll be comfortable there. When civil war breaks out in this country, he'll be in charge in the first place. Everyone needs to know that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0128par0151	Don't be a Civil War screamer!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0129par0152	What kind of statement is that, Mr. President? He's calling for a civil war!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0153	Sir, I'm not calling for civil war. Look...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0130par0154	Mr. Speaker, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0155	Mr. President, you haven't given me the time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0130par0156	I added it, I added it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0157	I didn't see it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0131par0158	He's calling for a civil war! Shameless! He's calling for a civil war!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0159	Sir, I'm not calling for civil war.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0132par0160	Mr. Speaker, your time is up, I've added your time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0119par0161	Now, friends, on October 6th, 7th, 50 people died in Turkey, the state offices were so destroyed...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0132par0162	Mr. Speaker, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0133par0163	Shame, shame on that stand!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0134par0164	Kamer, you're an executioner!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0133par0165	You want to make Turkey Syria.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0135par0166	... Who will answer for them?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0136par0167	Mr. Speaker, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0135par0168	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0136par0170	I've cut it, I've added your time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0137par0171	You cut off everyone's heads, Kamer. Executioner Kamer!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0136par0172	I'd like to explain something to Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0137par0173	He's cutting off everyone's heads.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0136par0174	Dear Elitaş... I want to explain something to the speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0138par0176	He wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0136par0177	When I was making a statement earlier, I said, "I don't know Mr. Young, I don't even have a hello for eight years, and yet, of course, I say, "Mr. Kamer Young."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0139par0178	You don't say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0138par0179	You're not worth it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0140par0180	Then get out of here!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0141par0181	I expected that from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0142par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0141par0184	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0143par0185	Can we call you Mr.?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0141par0186	It's up to your manners. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0144par0188	Mr. President, while the speaker was speaking on the stand...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0145par0189	You're going to apologize for the Civil War screamer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0144par0190	... You cut him off by turning off the microphone, and I'd like to open a discussion of the procedure you're doing, and I'd like you to promise me against it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0146par0191	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0147par0192	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0148par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0146par0194	You're Mr...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0149par0195	You're starting a civil war debate?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0146par0196	Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0150par0197	Mr. Speaker, by returning to our group, I tell you about your corruption and theft, but you do not give up. He has accused and insulted you. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0146par0198	I'll give you two minutes for bullying. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'll consider your case as well.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0150par0203	Mr. President, my dear friends, I reject the charges Mr. Cameroon has made. Such general, vague, speculative speeches have no meaning, no political value. Let me make this clear first.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0151par0204	The source is obvious, but the generalization is not correct.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0150par0205	There are rules in Turkey, there are laws, state mechanisms, and those who commit crimes will be punished.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0151par0206	There are prosecutors, right, Hajji? There are cops!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0150par0207	But, no matter what Mr. Kamer says, we're always watching his voice and his beautiful voice -- as you were in the example just now -- excitedly, and we're feeling a lot from where we're sitting. We feel the same way again, thank you very much, Mr. Kamer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0152par0209	I noticed you were touched.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0150par0210	Goebbels, you know, was the secretary of propaganda for the Nazis. They say to Goebbels: "Why do you keep repeating the same things? " He replied: "Credo has repeated the same things for 2,000 years; see, Christianity continues. We're on the same line. He says. I think Mr. Kamer is inspired to say the same thing and thinks he's going to come to a conclusion. I'll pass on that. Of course, nothing can spoil the love, the conversation between us and Mr. Kamer, and I would like to express it to him. But, God bless you, I had a dream last night. When you're this big in the House, you dream too, Parliament. In my dream, a speaker who appeared in the form of Mr. Kamer, unfortunately, was speaking very vile, very vulgar, very bad, incompatible with any human norm. I woke up in a nightmare, and I said, "Who comes into my dreams to mess with our Cameroon?" I wondered if the MIT was in my dreams or if it was messing with me. And when I woke up, of course, I said, "Thank God, that's not going to happen, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to talk to Kamer, that's what we're going to do. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0153par0214	You've spoken very frankly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0216	Thank you. Mr. Sky, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0155par0218	I just did. Speaking of Mr. Kamer, our speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0219	Since I interrupted the speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0155par0220	...I'm opening up a discussion in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0221	...you're opening up a legal debate.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0156par0222	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0157par0223	In your favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0224	Wait a minute, guys, have I decided to open it? I didn't.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0158par0225	Because since it's not the case with the substance you're applying, I don't want to discuss...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0226	And did you read the 67th article after that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0158par0227	Sir, you mentioned that you were operating according to 66.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0228	66, 67. Now, let's see, I've done a proper procedure on these.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0159par0229	You're talking about politeness, and it's not polite to interrupt a speaker on the stand. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0230	Now, I'm giving you the reasons for the procedural debate: whether there's room for discussion or not... have I done anything about it? No. I've acted in accordance with the Civil Code... inviting the president to take the agenda or to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I didn't do such a thing either. Respectfully to the speaker, when he wasn't here, I made a statement, and respectfully told him that he shouldn't address people by his first name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0160par0231	He said, sir, sir!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0159par0232	Are you going to make the rules of respect, or are you going to make the recipe for respect?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0154par0233	Therefore, I do not intend to engage in a formal discussion, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0161par0234	Can you read 63, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0162par0235	Will you come to 63, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0163par0236	So it's written there that the Speaker described the respect?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0164par0237	Guys, just a second, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0238	I don't know, who do I listen to from your group?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0164par0239	According to Article 63, you have no right to consider it when a request for a procedure debate comes in. You must open it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0166par0240	No, sir, according to the first joke.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0241	No, it's totally my thing to decide to open up a legal debate...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0164par0242	You have no right to appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0243	And if I open up a legal debate now, then I'm going to do the actual irregularity.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0164par0244	No, Mr. President, this is important.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0245	Are you forcing me to do this?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0167par0246	We insist, you vote, and now the AKP Group is in the minority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0247	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0248	Our congressman has been interrupted.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0249	I did it on my own authority, and it's not the first time I've ever done it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0250	This application of yours is also wrong, and this application of yours is extremely wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0251	And my app is not wrong, and I'm sorry, and I'm not going to open up a formal debate, because there are no rules that lead to a procedural debate.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0252	You have no right to appreciate the legal debate, Mr. President, you have to open it in a request.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0253	No, I have no such obligation, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0254	But not like this, I beg you, it's against the rules.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0255	I don't have to. Mr. Sky, I don't mean to offend you, but please, this matter is not meant to be treated as irregularity. It would be irregular if I were to engage in a formal debate on your request.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0256	Mr. President, you have no right to appreciate 63. Look, matters of the law are discussed before other matters, he says. That's the way we've always done it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0169par0257	You have no discretion, Mr. President. It says, "It is seen." It says, "It is spoken."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0258	Now, look, you're saying something that every time you raise your hand, it opens up a debate. Could such a working arrangement be involved?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0168par0259	Of course, we have to discuss matters of order. Article 63 of the Charter is very clear.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0170par0260	It was over by now anyway. You've extended the business, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0261	Look, Mr. Sky, I don't want to argue with you, but I've read the reasons why you've had a formal discussion. I don't have any behavior that doesn't fit in. The president has the right to interrupt the speaker because of the articles written in the Civil Code. I did that, and I added the amount of time I cut to the speaker's time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0170par0262	You'll find them to your decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0263	Mr. President, the topic of discussion is that our speaker is interrupted by the microphone. So...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0264	How else is the word cut? Look, I interrupted. I interrupted, the speaker kept talking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0265	Now, look, there too, but... Mr. President, are you...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0266	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0267	Mr. President, you're acting out of order by not having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0268	You're right, and you're right, you're acting group president, but please don't force me to behave improperly, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0269	There's never been a dispute in this House that's been rejected.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0165par0270	Then everyone raise your hands, and we'll have an irregular discussion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0172par0271	The group is the President, Mr. President, not everyone. How is everyone?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0272	The order comes first.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0173par0273	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda. To not continue the agenda now is to act contrary to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0274	Mr. Sky, how can I apply the Civil Code, and how can I apply it? Isn't that based on interpretations and regulations here?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0275	Mr. President, let's make our case, and you'll make yours.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0276	Here you go. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0171par0277	But, sir, not until we discuss it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0278	No, I'm not going to open it. I'll give you a minute to explain, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0279	You're asking for an explanation, you're stating your decision not to open it, so why do you want an explanation?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0280	I promised your Deputy Director of the Group to give you a minute's explanation. I didn't ask you, I took my own initiative.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0281	Well, if that's your decision, then why do you want an explanation, brother?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0282	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0283	How's that for fun?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0284	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0285	What do you mean, what's it to you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0286	Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0287	Do you have the right to say such a thing? What do you mean, what's it to you? Isn't it disrespectful to the MP?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0288	Yeah, what's it to you? I gave my word to your group president.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0289	What does he call you? Do you have a right to say that? What kind of respect do you expect from the congressman? You'll deserve respect first!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0290	I don't expect any respect from you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0292	We don't expect you to either.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0174par0293	Well, that's a good deal, then. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0175par0295	We don't find you worthy of respect!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0176par0298	Mr. President, running our House according to the Civil Code is, of course, one of your most prominent duties. So far, at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I don't remember anything being rejected by the Presidential Court when I was asked to discuss the procedure. Also, your attitude is a form of disputation. If you'd promised us that by now, we'd have offered our services, but it's your duty as president to protect the freedom of every speaker on the stand. The speaker didn't insult anyone, of course he's talking about a prime minister's budget. And yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister made a very serious commitment, saying that his relations with the President would continue after death. Naturally, there's nothing more natural to talk about here than a man who was Prime Minister not long ago. That's why we're repeating our request to discuss this procedure. Please consider the matter, and the decision you've made in the absence of a procedural debate also requires a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0177par0300	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I've given my reasons, we're moving on.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0178par0302	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0177par0303	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the eighth speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0178par0304	Mr. President, Bostancıoğlu teased me, he said: I dreamt of someone like Kamer Young, where he spoke like a jerk...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0177par0305	Wait, I'm listening, what did he say? I saw it. He said it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0179par0306	Look at the records, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0177par0307	Just a minute, Mr. Elitaş... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0180par0309	Now, this Bostancıoğlu already has a temper, and he doesn't come out brave enough to answer me, so he cheats me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0177par0310	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0180par0311	He says: "I saw a man in my dream who looked like Kamer the Younger, who gave a vulgar speech. He said, "Let me speak...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0181par0312	You're starting to get into people's dreams.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0182par0313	Nightmare, nightmare!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0183par0314	Either it's real. You're a joke, you're a joke!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0184par0315	Yes, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0185par0319	Well, of course I'll go into your dreams because I won't get tired of bringing in your corruption, thefts, bribes every day...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0186par0320	Look at you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0185par0321	... Because I owe this nation a debt of conscience. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Friends, you've finished Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0186par0324	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0187par0325	Name one, who's corrupt?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0185par0326	Look, folks, in the events of October 6-7, 50 people died in this country, hundreds of citizens were injured, there is no state called the Republic of Turkey. (AK PARTY and CHP rows) Finally they went to Abdullah Ocalan, brought a request letter from Abdullah Ocalan, and the streets were prevented. So, now, the state of the Republic of Turkey is no longer the state of the Republic of Turkey, and you have entered Abdullah Ocalan's command. If Abdullah Ocalan says, "Go back to the street the day after tomorrow." If he says, the street will be a bloodbath. You put Turkey in this position. So you still don't say that. No unsolved murders, you say. Well, 50 citizens are dead; who killed them, who killed them, go out. Hundreds of government agencies were destroyed, security forces killed. You've lost your ability to be in power, you're resisting. Now, you think tomorrow's the day after tomorrow... What is this solution process, get out of here? What the hell is this? Do you want to divide the state of the Republic of Turkey, or do you want to go in the direction of democratic rights and freedoms, tell me that. I mean, the southeast of the Republic of Turkey is gone, there's no such state there now. The state police don't go out there, the military, the police don't go out on the street, the state is completely... Here, see, what your Brenkent Arinc says: "Sir, you're playing with the dignity of Ocalan. " Yes, but he's sucking oil, he says: "Don't play with the reputation of the victim, because this is our father, our grandfather, is in his place. When we're stuck the day after tomorrow, we'll go and kiss his hand. You've put Turkey in this position. Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0188par0329	Mr. President, this language...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0189par0330	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0188par0331	Mr. President, the speaker -- for the record -- is doing this on purpose. In order to sabotage these budget talks, Mr. Bulent Arinc deliberately abuses Arinc and uses false statements so that the Deputy Prime Minister can take his word for it, and the budget talks will interfere. Its mission is to the mixer himself, the provocateur!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0189par0332	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0190par0333	Mr. President, he called me a provocateur!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0189par0334	On behalf of the Republican People's Party, the eighth speaker is Mr. Mehmet Şeker, Gaziantep MP.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0190par0335	Mr. President, he called me a provocateur.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0191par0336	Yes, I said, you are.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0190par0337	There's bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0192par0338	Let him talk. I'll listen to you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0190par0339	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0192par0340	He'll talk, I'll listen, I'll say his name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0193par0341	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0192par0342	Dear Sugar, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0194par0343	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0192par0344	You want to talk about bullying, Mr. Arinc?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0195par0345	One sentence...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0192par0346	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0196par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0197par0348	Levent Sky, let him speak and let him have a little peace!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0196par0349	Mr. President, of course, Mr. Arinc may speak, but you have invited our speaker to the stand.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0198par0350	I asked him for permission, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0199par0351	Mr. Mehmet, I'm going to say a sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0198par0352	He said he'd say a sentence, so I asked his permission, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0199par0353	I'd like to ask Mr. Sugar to say a sentence. Mr. Mahir explained the original purpose in the speech of Cameroon's youth. But I'm not going to miss this vile conversation, I'm going to answer it in my own time. Mr. President, I'm here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0200par0357	Thank you. Mr. Sugar, your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0201par0359	Mr. President, look, he said it too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0202par0360	I couldn't find another word.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0200par0361	I'll give it to you later, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0203par0362	Mr. President, put it all together, give it to me at once.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0200par0363	Mr. Young, in the time you've been doing this, I can't promise you anything, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0204par0364	What do you mean, it's your pleasure, Mr. President? How can the Minister say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0200par0365	Let's hear it, then I'll get your request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0205par0367	A minister tells his MP that you don't say a word. Where's the courtesy? Where's that courtesy of yours just now?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0200par0368	I said, "Listen to me, and listen to me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0205par0369	A minister calls a member of parliament...... I return the Minister's word to you as the President's Court. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0206par0370	Where's the courtesy?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0207par0371	He said the speech was a disgrace.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0208par0372	I will give my word to the young man, and I will listen to the request of the young man. Shall I say it again? I'll listen to Mr. Young. All right?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0209par0373	You'll make the right decision where to listen, you'll treat it with respect!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0210par0374	Mr. President, there's a preacher on the stand so they don't disrespect the court.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0208par0375	Mr. Elitaş, please sit down. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0211par0423	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0212par0424	He didn't tell the MP, Mr. Ecder, he said, "Don't talk like that."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0211par0425	Mr. President, will you provide a calm? Can you start my time again?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0213par0426	Sure, let's reboot. Here's seven minutes...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0211par0428	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the National Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council. I salute you all. On the main page of the National Intelligence Agency, there's an article that says that, given the purpose, the right news, and the fact that the government is not facing a surprise, it's a very good sign, it's a good sign, but unfortunately, given our citizens who were dropped bombs on them in Uludere, we can say that Turkey has left the Cilve-Eye with painful surprises in the city square and 10 people lost their lives at the border gate and in Reyhan. The weaknesses of the National Intelligence Agency don't end with that either, dear friends. Look, a group who opposed the regime in Syria established a prime minister's building in Gaziantep's busiest neighborhood, on its street, some say, and some say it was an organization building. Security forces have taken cover around this building. I've told you from this platform, there are twenty-four Syrian organizations in Gaziantep's most busy place, in the streets of Syria; I've mentioned many times here that they might face the terrorist attack tomorrow, or the attack of the people in them, but I'm afraid they haven't been listened to. Finally, the United States Embassy made a statement: "There may be terrorist attacks on these buildings in Gazatanep" by extremist groups -- whoever they are. Unfortunately, the MIT was silent again. So, what did the National Intelligence Agency do for the safety of our citizens? Unfortunately, we didn't see them do anything about it. Unfortunately, with open door policy on the Syrian border, we never had the right or the chance to track down who entered the country, when he entered, what he took away. And so, unfortunately, we don't know where the Syrian is, how they are, what they do for a living. Last March -- if you remember -- there was a speech between the Secretary of State and the Undersecretary of State, the Undersecretary of MIT, and an Orgeneral. In this account, the government and the Intelligence Agency were unable to take measures to ensure the safety of the country, since all these warnings and rhetorics were accepted, but were both politically and the work had gone awry. Look what the Undersecretary of MIT said on that tape. If we do an operation against the Light, bombs will go off in most parts of Turkey, he says. Mr. Undersecretary, if you know where these bombs are going to go off, you know where they are, you know who they are, so take precautions. Does the National Intelligence Agency have any other duties? To take these measures, to ensure the safety of a citizen, and to do what is necessary. But unfortunately, despite all of our explanations, they couldn't be done. I spoke again, and explained, that many trucks were seized, and trucks were seized that went to Syria through the Church, and there was weapons and ammunition in it. I wrote from the Army Command -- or rather, I wrote to the Ministry -- that we took these materials, yes, they were the materials used to make weapons and bombs, and we removed the materials used to make these weapons and bombs, and we destroyed them. I didn't ask if it was destroyed. To whom these weapons were going, which country they belonged to, who they were going to get their hands on, which Muslims were going to bleed, and I asked them, but unfortunately we didn't get any answers. The record mentions nearly 2,000 trucks. I don't know who these go to. It has always been claimed that he went to the Turkmen, but the Turks said that we did not receive such a weapon, we did not receive any help. There is one more serious problem with the MIT, dear friends, and I'd like to share it with you. He talks about the solution to the Kurdish problem on every bench, on television, very good. We'll solve the problem, we'll do what we have to do; we'll be fine there. Well, one of the structures that plays an active role in solving the Kurdish problem is the National Intelligence Agency. Dear friends, three women were killed in an armed attack on the Kurdish Bureau of Information in Paris, France, on January 9, 2013. Who were they? Sakina No Life, Fidan Doğan and Leyla Don't Say It. There's been no explanation for this. French intelligence and the National Intelligence Agency have shared some things. They took one person into custody, arrested him, and in fact, there was a recording of him claiming to have committed the murder of Omar South. If such a thing has happened, dear friends, our work is very difficult and very difficult. If there's an intelligence organization that can't find the perpetrators of three women who have been killed trying to solve a problem, or they know who the perpetrators are, but they don't share it with the public, there are serious problems. And I'm afraid that even though we're talking about what's happening at the border crossing and what's happening abroad and what's going on in our country, even though we're talking about it, there's no explanation, I can safely say that some information is being covered up, or there's someone from Turkey behind it. If it's not explained why these three women were killed, then either someone from our country or somewhere else is behind it, and it's the national intelligence agency who knows it best. But so far, no explanation has been made about it, and it has not been illuminated. And these weapons, unfortunately, caused many Muslims to lose their lives and people to lose their lives there. On this occasion, once again, the National Intelligence Agency, at least, must inform us of its views, opinions, and events. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0439	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0215par0440	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0441	I said I would give my word to Mr. Young. I will give my word to Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0215par0442	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0443	Here, Mr. Young, I'll take your request.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0444	"Brenkent Arinc said that he should speak to Rezile..."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0445	Mr. Bulent Arinc said...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0446	I mean, you don't have to call me "Your Honor," so don't let him call me "Your Honor."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0447	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0448	He said: "I will speak to Rezilene...... to my speech."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0214par0449	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0452	Mr. President, I know the esteemed lawmakers, I know the Brent Arinc. Next thing you know, he's lying and crying, and it's like he's on the side of truth and justice, but I know who he really is. Now, I'm asking you: how many times have you been to Fethullah Gulen? What did you hope for?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0217par0454	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0218par0455	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0456	Why don't you go to this Fethullah Smiley now? And then... well, December 17th...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0219par0458	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0216par0459	For God's sake! So I'm not gonna talk here?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0219par0460	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0220par0461	Mr. President, can you remind me of the Civil Code?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0219par0462	Mr. Speaker, you speak rude and hurtful words according to Article 67 of the Civil Code. I invite you to speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0221par0463	It's vile, vile, vile! You're cheap, you're cheap.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0222par0464	Okay, I'm speaking clean. So what I'm saying, Mr. Bulent, is that he sheds a tear from time to time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0223par0467	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0222par0468	Now, he says, "I've been set up by the army." After that, they brought...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0224par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0225par0470	There's no insult here, there's no insult there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0226par0471	Dear Elitaş, please, I've made my notice.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0227par0472	...to search the Cosmic Room, where the most secret secrets of the state of the Republic of Turkey's army are kept. Where's the information he got there now?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0228par0473	And you don't answer for your son, your family, and now you're here to answer for it?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0227par0474	Well, if you were set up, then why don't you ask for the result?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0475	You're making a lousy, rotten speech, you piece of shit!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0227par0476	If you've slandered those officers here, there's no way that the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0230par0478	Don't bother with the personality, please. If you insist, I'll have to apply Article 67.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0479	It's a disgrace, it's a disgrace!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0227par0480	Why did you bring the secrets of his army? Who did you give it to? The head of this is-- is-- is-- is-- is-- is--is--is--is--is--is--is--is--is responsible for this. And that would happen? Oh, these are...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0482	That's a dirty, dirty talk!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0231par0483	How dare you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0484	You're making a terrible speech, you piece of shit!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0232par0485	The scoundrels think he's a disgrace, and they think they're a disgrace to themselves - the talk of others.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0486	And it suits you so well! It suits you very well!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0232par0487	But they're the ones who did the embarrassing. My speech is very well-behaved, aimed at protecting the dignity of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0233par0489	These conversations seem to reflect you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0490	It's a disgrace!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0232par0491	He brought the secrets of the Turkish army, a false report was made just to give it to someone else. Let's get him out of here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0229par0492	That's a terrible speech, a terrible one!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0232par0493	I'm doing my parliamentary duty here, folks, and I'm not making a scene.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0234par0494	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0232par0495	They're the ones who screwed up!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0235par0497	That's a dirty, dirty talk! It looks good on you! 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0236par0544	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the ninth speaker is Mr. Ihsan Özkes, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0547	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the religious budget of 2015. I salute you all. Instead of love, tolerance, friendship, brotherhood, hatred, dissolution, polarization, the opening of the 5th Church of Religion at the beginning of the week. It is almost as if the religion had been turned into a source of hatred. At this meeting of the Dianetite established by Ataturk, there were unjust criticisms of the period, while Ataturk could be remembered with gratitude. Unfortunately, some meetings in the religious organization have become a dish for the trumpet of power. What does Davutoglu not do when he is the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs and he introduces the candidate for mayor in the Grand Mosque? Did he put the mosques directly into the Prime Minister's office to make propaganda headquarters? The protocol table is set up in Kayseri Talas district, where the mayor is propaganda from the mosque altar. Again, there is a sign on the mosque wall to congratulate that person -- a Üsküdar borough president -- who has been elected president. The mosques and mosques belong to God. He commands, but he converts the power mosques and mosques into the electoral office.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0238par0551	Where are the mosques that CHP destroyed?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0552	The imam of the village of Çanakkale Bayramic Kayklar is going to fight in the ISIS ranks. Diyarbakır Kayapınar Fidan has been reading the support of ISIS, a religious official of the mosque.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0239par0553	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0554	For twenty-five years, Diyanet has not used this emblem for twenty-four years, but uses this emblem at the Happy Birth Week of 2013, when ISIS appeared. I'd like to point out the timing of using the emblem. He's distracting the Alekis with power studies. A minister of Alevi does not make the roads of the ruling Alevi villages without a governor of Alevi. He performs repairs in this country, in the mosque, in the church, in the synagogue, in the synagogue; he pays for the electricity of these temples; he doesn't even know the mosques of Alevi legally. The Alekis say, "Let our rights be unlawful for this religious budget, which has its own taxes." By inviting grandfathers to the religious president's soup dinner...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0240par0556	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0557	Do you think he sees the rights of the Alevi in the religious budget as just feeding soup to the grandparents? In the 2015 budget bill of diabetes, there is neither a word "Alevia" nor a word "African" or "celebra." Isn't Allah the same God as Alevi? Isn't his book the same book? Isn't his prophet the same Prophet? Aren't they the same kind of people? What's wrong with the Alekis and what's wrong with them? If Islam is Muslim, it is not right to eat, but democracy is in accordance with human rights. Enough, they must be given legal status.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0241par0559	Do you want it to be a chapel?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0560	In the Qur'an, cut off the hand of the thief. He commands that I cut off his hand even to Fatima, my daughter, who has committed theft. The president of the religion commands that it is evil, but stealing spirituality is much worse. Our great religion is being manipulated by the genes of Islam. A parallel religion is created where theft, corruption, bribery, theft of state property, lying, slander, persecution, violence are practically legitimized. God's religion is being adapted to the actions of power. Due to the December 17th corruption and corruption operation, the ban was waived on the bribes to be read on December 20, 2013. It is a curse to give and to give in to the border. The reading of its come-on has been prevented. The mosques have been censored for over a year on such issues as stealing, bribery, corruption, eating the rights of the people, stealing the property of the state. According to Muslim tradition, in the state business, it is a bribe taken under the name of the gift, treason. He can't be a Muslim who calls bribery a gift. The word "bakara" is blasphemy. It is not lawful for a thief to steal, nor is it unlawful for a thief to commit sin, nor is it a waste to waste, but if the fear of power prevails over the fear of God, then religion is not free in this land. Religion is protected by the abuse of faith. A former minister sued me because I had read the story of Muhammad the Holy One, who said that the pilgrimage and the Umrah would not be accepted by God. In fact, I'm not the one who's being sued, I'm just the one who's being transferred, actually being sued is the sheriff, the Holy Prophet himself.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0242par0564	What kind of a thing is that, Hodja?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0243par0565	It's not the teacher, it's the trouble!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0566	I've been waiting for the answer to my proposal for 26/3/2012 on corruption as much as 14 million,500,000 Saudi Arabia claims to have been conducted in the Hajj accounts in 2011. A AKP MP is also an imam if he is an imam. He gives a fatwa. What would happen if a CHPman had accidentally said that? The wages for four days a week, when religious servants cannot use them each month, should be reflected in their wages. We have a deep respect for our religious servants, who rise up like the sun, who embrace all men like the Lord. We believe that dialogue will only maintain its dignity because it's above politics. Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0244par0572	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0573	You're my trouble, you! You're my problem!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0244par0574	Mr. Ozkes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0575	Whoever says so! You're my problem! Don't be rude.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0244par0576	Mr. Ozkes...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0237par0577	I'm going up there, I can't fucking talk! Have you no fear of God? You guys have been talking all morning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit02spe0244par0578	Ten-minute recess...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0244par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka will speak. Here you go, Mr. Nazlıaka. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0245par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the Foundation General Directorate. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, what is the purpose of the foundation? Foundations are founded in a general sense to promote cooperation, solidarity, don't you think? But during our time, the AKP's government has emptied the foundations, as has all concepts and institutions. Look, we have a new foundation, like a ball of light, and after the lighthouse, we have a world-renowned TERGEV. Of course, Bilal, we must not forget the boy's TÜRGEV, as well as Sumeyye Erdogan's CADEM.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0246par0011	And the one who uses running water! Pay for the water.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0245par0012	Do you know what will remain in mind during your time?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0246par0013	Fugitive water money.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0245par0014	Shoeboxes with money in them, counting machines...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0247par0015	Go check the water money, check the water.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0245par0016	From where you're sitting, you're a talker! Don't talk where you're sitting!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0247par0017	Look at the water on the run, you have no right to talk. Go answer Melih Gökçek.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0245par0018	...the vaults the size of my neck, that will be remembered.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0247par0019	Look at the water on the run, the water on the run!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0248par0020	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's not quibble, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0247par0021	He's talking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0249par0022	You will go down in history as a time when the death of young people, children, miners, workers, workers, workers, is considered an extremity. In your day, the name of the bribe has turned into a collection of donations, charities, and associations, unfortunately, into a number of institutions where these bribes have been wiped out. From here, Mr. Arinc is ashamed of his shame, so I speak without looking at him and direct my questions to Mr. Prime Minister. The Prime Minister talks about honest politics every chance he gets. If he really is sincere about this, if he is honest about it, then let him explain to us who donated to TÜRGEV, which public lands were pursued by this foundation. Look, I'll share with you some of the ones that are reflected in the press: the stone company is $1.5 million, Kalyon Construction is $500,000, Genghis Construction is $1 million, Mapa Construction is $6.5 million, SINPAS is $5.5 million. These are just some of the companies that donate.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0250par0024	Benevolent, philanthropist!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0249par0025	Look, in law states, in democracies, the business and process of governance are subject to control, so transparency and accountability are one of the essentials of democracy. Of course, in this period when we all know how much pressure is being put under, come, look, about what was written in the Court reports in 2013 about the General Directorate of Foundations. I'm not going to read it in detail, but basically, there are a lot of transactions and jobs that have been ignored by the tender regulations. Gene points out that additional jobs are not carried out according to regulations and conditions that require a job increase. The emphasis is on serious irregularities in the form of business. Now, before the High Council, I ask you, what is the amount of these tenders? How many tenders have been detected like this? How much damage has the institution been done with this tender channel? What are the results of the investigation if any work and transactions have been done regarding the bureaucrats who made these tenders? It is the right of this nation to learn all this, dear MPs. Gene, the Court reports say that some of the subsidiaries were paid for rent either through the cycle, without the management's knowledge or written approval, or without contracting, and the third persons are mentioned as being given rent in exchange for air money. Who knows who's getting a runt while our institutions are being damaged? I'll give you an example, for example, the Kayseri Foundations Regional Directorate doesn't have 114 of them, they've been leased to people from occupation to contract or protocols without opening 34 non-moving tenders at the Slap Foundations Regional Directorate. Again in Tokat, 233 are not carried by hand, but in Kayseri, 334 are rent-or-breakfasts. I ask you, where do the public officials get the courage? Sure, the fish stinks all over again, dear friends. Look, when we can't protect our cultural heritage, the escaped palace is protected by private commandos. So that's what we understand about the new Turkey. And, of course, during the Plan and Budget talks, as our friends have mentioned, there's a 58.5 per cent transfer of the Foundation's shares to the Undersecretary of Treasury for a price determined by the Council of Ministers, so we're talking about privatisation of the Foundation that has been operating since 1954. I would like to remind Mr. Arinc again of his words against privatisation when he was a Manisa MP in 2000, against the privatisation of the Foundation. Dear lawmakers, TÜRGEV (TÜRGEV) has been donated $99,999,990 from abroad. Gene, there are some allegations that KADEM was granted 4 million euros. You know, in quotes, for those of you who make big thinking the way you do politics, these numbers may be small numbers, but these numbers are life-saving numbers. It does not save on dignity. It seems that it can save on miners; it can save on workers, it can save on the poor. Look, I'll tell you about the kids who live on the street: 3,000. There are 500,000 children working on the street, 10,000 begging children, 4.5 million poor children, 1 million working children. So, behind all these numbers are these kids screaming. You've gone through the history of this country in black letters, with illegal palaces, with your lack of law, with your mindsets of death. We're not talking about dreams, we're talking about facts, precious AKP MPs. I'd like to remind you of the promise of Nihal Kemaloglu. Nihal Kemaloglu says: "The palace without injustice is not cruel without a sycophant." Thanks to you, we have seen both the oppressor and the sycophants and the palace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0251par0036	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0252par0037	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0253par0038	Get out of here, come on!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0039	Mr. President, isn't that disrespectful?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0255par0040	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0041	He accused us of being sycophants by pointing at us. Isn't that disrespectful?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0256par0042	Mr. Metiner, don't take it personally. Metiner, don't take it personally. Why are you so offended?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0255par0043	If the group's vice president sees it as a taunt and demands it, I promise. In that case, there's nothing I can do. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0044	But the disrespect suits the lady very well. The leaky water he's been drinking has obviously corrupted his morals.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0255par0045	The last speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0047	Metiner, why are you so offended, are you a sycophant?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0048	Fugitive water has corrupted your morals, forbidden water.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0258par0049	Mr. Recep Erdogan will not be the leader.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0050	Metiner, are you a lackey?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0051	You don't have to talk, honey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0052	Metiner, are you a lackey? Why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0254par0053	You're my brother, you're my brother, you understand my brother.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0054	Why are you offended, Metiner?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0259par0055	Dear Metiner... Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Gök, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0057	Metiner, sycophant, why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0259par0058	For the speaker who was just here, show your sensitivity for Mr. Sugar for Mr. Tanal. Please, Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0059	Why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0260par0060	You don't understand, Master Hodja. You don't understand. You don't understand, Hodja.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0257par0061	Are you a lackey, why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0260par0062	You go ahead and be Belam.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0261par0063	Dear Metiner, please... Mr. Tanal, I'm rebooting your time; your time is seven minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0066	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, fellow citizens who listen to us at their television station, I salute you with the most heartfelt love and respect. We're talking about the Turkish Human Rights Foundation. The Human Rights Institution of Turkey has its duties: it needs to protect human rights, develop human rights, and take measures related to violation of human rights and work on it. Right now, of course, as we talk about the budget of the Human Rights Foundation, amongst the bureaucrats, according to the list I got -- of course, our bureaucrat friend -- is here representing the Vice President. So, when we look at it, what was the Human Rights Foundation for? Human rights violations in Turkey were set up to minimize and to prevent and prevent training on the basis of this. So, what year was it founded? It was founded in 2012. From 2012 to today, what kind of work has the Human Rights Agency in Turkey conducted on human rights violations? He's got five reports. The authorities are comfortable here, listening with their hands on their dicks. So 10,000 people were injured in travel events; how many cases are being filed against 10,000 people regarding security forces? There are two cases: one in Antalya, the other in İzmir. Well, these 10,000 people have been injured, due to the lack of punishment for the injuries of 10,000 people. Do law enforcement constantly attack people and cause them to kill and wound? It does. And, O Human Rights Agency, were you founded to receive wages, or were you founded to fight them? That's one. Two, we've always said that the Human Rights Foundation has been established, that the United Nations Convention and the United Nations institution have never been able to be objective. Last year, you said: "We are preparing. " When I enter your site, you are still not prepared, we are preparing again. How many years do you need to be accrued? Please, tell me. If you can't communicate there, we're prepared to communicate with you as the Republican People's Party. If you're short-staffed, we're willing to work. So, please, don't let this go. You've been preparing for your aunt for two years. We're coming... of course, our friend who comes to every bench talks about the mines. Our fellow speaker from the National Movement Party (National Movement Party) must be a member of the AKP (AKP), the requirement for hiring a mine worker in Soma (Soma) during the week. You do not hire a member without a member. When you say "The Justice and Development Party," a disputationist at the order of the Justice and Development Party objected: "Where do you get this from...?" Dear friends, on top of him, again, our friend, the AKP representative, said: "Sir, don't associate this with us." Now, my dear brothers, dear friends, precious MPs, Dear President, the precondition for working in the mines is to become a member of the AKP. If you do not become a member of the AKP, you will not be able to work in the mines. When you become a member of the AKP, you can't oppose AKP (AKP) under party discipline. As a result, you can't become a member of the union there, and you're eating lunch under the ground, even a civilized, civilized lunch, and you can't go out into the sunlight. What does that bring? He's bringing slavery to the mines. Don't you have a duty here, O Human Rights Agency? Look, I'm giving you official documents. What does the Labour Act say about violations of rights regarding these official documents? It forbids discrimination. Article 10 of our Constitution prohibits discrimination, Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibits discrimination, the Law of Debts prohibits discrimination. Is there a flaw in the legislation? There's a lack of control, the Human Rights Agency doesn't control it. Look, it's a document I got from the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office of Political Parties Records. According to this document, I read the number of workers who are members of the AKP in Soma. The official document is: 1,716 people are registered in political parties, 1,370 members of the AKP.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0263par0075	Well done, AK PARTY. Bravo!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0264par0076	We're already getting that many votes...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0077	Now, I'm moving on. Here, look how you've enslaved people. May Allah have mercy on them and let them sleep in the light. How many of the workers whom you have enslaved - those 301 of whom you have registered? So when you hire those people, we don't hire you unless you become a member of the AKP. How many people are there? We have 84 deceased citizens there, too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0264par0079	Were the others CHP?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0080	You've enslaved them. When will you, as Human Rights Agency, do this task for the sake of God? I speak of the field trip, and I speak of Soma. This is about corruption from public institutions... look, Article 59 of State Officers' Law No. 657 brings in the exception of appointing officers. So, what happened? Look, appointing an exceptional officer under the Court's General Assembly of 5119/2005 is a fraud of the law, a violation of the principles of fairness, a violation of the principle of equality, a failure in the examination and a bypass of the exam. This is a parallel organisation of the AKP (AKP) within the state.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0265par0084	CHP municipalities...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0085	Here a parallel organisation is carried out by the AKP by applying Article 59. Corruption means theft, democracy is hostility, human rights hostility, poverty. Corruption is poverty. Poverty means that I can't get my education, that I can't get my health back, that all of this comes with it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0266par0088	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0089	O Human Rights Institution, your duty, your powers from the existing Constitution, the 10th Article of our Constitution...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0266par0090	Mr. Tanal, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0262par0091	In accordance with Article 5 of the Employment Law, Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, I invite you to do so, or else you will not have been able to go beyond the position of a paid officer. I thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0266par0094	Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0267par0095	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0266par0096	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0267par0097	Mr. President, in the speech of the speakers, it is absolutely necessary to be a member of the EC PARTY to work in the mines...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0268par0098	I gave him the certificate. I'll give you his certificate. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0267par0099	Mr. Mahmut, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0268par0100	I gave you your official certificate, my dear teacher.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0269par0101	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0267par0102	He made a claim like that. That's teasing, I want words in this frame.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0270par0103	Mr. President, what's the big deal?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0269par0104	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0271par0105	Where's the teasing, Mr. President? We respect your appreciation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0272par0109	Mr. President, the valued members...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0273par0110	You didn't hire me without a member.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0274par0111	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0272par0112	...Mahmut Bey is a friend of ours who I work with at the Human Rights Commission, and who I'm very happy to work with. I also know your sensitivity to human rights. This sensitivity is also very important. We've done good work on the commission, and they've contributed a lot. However, this sensitivity can sometimes be a guide for power, but it can also lead to misunderstandings for power and assumptions that will incriminate it, and I have made a promise in this framework. As Mahmut Bey bonded with the workers who worked in the mines, 1,700 workers said that 1,300 were members of the AK PARTI. So 400 workers work there as well as members of another party. Being a member of another party doesn't stop working there, that's number one. Secondly, the AK PARTY is doing an amazing membership campaign all over Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0275par0114	Yeah, it's fake. CHP people are making AKP people out of computers.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0272par0115	In this framework, it is common for people to register members, of course, in accordance with the law, from many different trade groups. A political party with millions of members, 21 million votes, will, of course, be members of the mines. If all 1,700 workers had come from the AK PARTY, then Mahmut Bey's claim would be true, but it is common for the political party, which has received 50 per cent of the vote, received 21 million votes, run a membership campaign, to have a high number of members everywhere. In the meantime, I would like to point out that from time to time, the valued members of the opposition party turn to us and remind us of a moral set of norms about how to treat the MPs. And I'd like to point out how these friends see it, to turn around and point out that they're a lackey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0276par0117	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0277par0118	Dear President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0278par0119	Mr. President, I'd like to respond to the charge.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0276par0120	Wait a minute, guys... Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0279par0122	Dear President, the speaker has taken his word for bullying. He teased me with words I didn't pronounce.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0280par0123	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0281par0124	No, Mr. President, we've all heard it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0279par0125	If you'll excuse me, I'd like your word as soon as you appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0282par0126	I have to give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0283par0128	Mr. President, what did he say?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0284par0129	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0285par0131	Dear President, the esteemed MPs now own all the mines available in Turkey -- more or less directly, directly, or volunteers of the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0284par0132	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0285par0133	So the owners of these mines, the owners of the AKP's mines, don't hire anyone without being a member of the Justice and Development Party. So up until now, you've been calling it a document. I, look, I'm talking to you, the official document on 301 people who are comfortable and deceased, and also the people who work at the mine in Soma. I mean, the heart would want to come here, and we don't put pressure on it, and employers aren't part of the Justice and Development Party... Look, Mr. Ramadan, the general manager at the mine in Soma, is Mr. Melike, the wife of Mr. Ramadan Amalak, and Ma'am of the AKP, she's in the 1st place, and the wife of the General Director there is in the 1st position of your city councilman, and they're applying these pressures to the citizens during the work, dear friends. So you're just gonna sit there
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0284par0135	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0285par0136	Now, sir, you don't have to say a word out there...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0284par0137	So...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0285par0138	It's... I mean, I'm gonna talk hard right now, and my manners aren't available. My request from the members of the group, the vice president, is that every man who comes in here makes a statement. So this is a human rights violation. This conversation is not in accordance with the legislature of the House. I'm asking you: I mean, to make a statement here, please, I'm asking you... I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects. In this respect, my plea to the Deputy Speaker is that this is the case of our regular colloquializing friends, as if they were assigned to speak out in the House. I beg of you. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0286par0144	I'm giving the necessary warning, Mr. Tanal. I'm afraid you do, too, from time to time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0287par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0286par0146	Mr. Metiner, let me listen to you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0287par0147	They charged me with flattery.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0286par0148	It's not personal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0288par0149	He pointed, he pointed.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0287par0150	From there, both MPs point out my name by hand, saying, "Mehmet Metiner, you are a sycophant."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0289par0151	Mr. President, he put it out there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0152	It's not the bench...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0289par0153	He said it was for lackeys. Is he a lackey?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0154	Mr. Metiner, not from the stand.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0291par0155	What did our Deputy Director just say, and you promised for two minutes?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0292par0156	I didn't say anything to Mr. Metiner, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0157	Dear Metiner, I admire him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0291par0158	Okay, well, go to discretion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0159	Please... it's not something said on the stand, and I didn't hear anything said there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0293par0160	Mr. President, if you take it personally, give me your word.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0161	Excuse me, fellas, I'm talking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0293par0162	If he thinks so, give him your word.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0294par0163	Mr. President, take the records, look.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0164	It doesn't concern you guys what I do or don't do. Come, let's all sit here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0294par0165	Ask for the records. Look, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0166	I've been monitoring the records all the time. Now, I have to explain something.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0295par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0169	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0295par0170	Mr. President, I...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0296par0171	Mr. Ayþe, it's called the MPs in our group!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0172	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0295par0173	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0174	Just a minute, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0295par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. I received a very short promise for 60.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0290par0179	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0295par0180	The subject mentioned in the context of our speaker's speech is true and true. He's already there with his papers telling our coven. The problem here is, of course, anyone can be a member of any party, and there's no hesitation in that, and no one has the right to force anyone on it. But if the condition of getting a job depends on being a member of a party, that's exactly what we need to discuss. Unfortunately, this is the case in many mines. The need to get a job to satisfy people's needs, to help their family, comes after they become members of a party. This is a very bad picture, and it's a very common one. We have all the documents on the subject our friend was talking about. We can distribute them all over the House if they want. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0297par0184	Thank you. Congressmans, I'd like to inform you about something. During the previous talks, we heard a sentence, and we got the transcripts. Here's the thing, without commenting, and I'm going to ask for help: I'm reading with -- I'm reading with names -- Malik Ecder Özdemir says to a deputy minister, you don't say a word. Where's the courtesy, where's the courtesy you were just looking for? A minister calls a member of parliament...... If you mean the Court, Mr. Özdemir, I beg you, you'll probably feel obliged to apologize for this. If he's been here wrong, I'll promise you an explanation. Here you go. I just need to ask you for an explanation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0190	Mr. President, if you have promised me two minutes, please, allow me, bear with me, leave what I have to say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0297par0191	I'm just... just bear with me. I'm asking you. I'm asking you. Please bear with it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0192	Just bear with me for two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0297par0193	I'm redoing two minutes, time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0194	Look, Mr. President, I've been a congressman for two semesters, and I've been in this House for eight years, and this is the first time I've been on this stand because of bullying, thanks to you. Now, you don't have the right to describe how he's going to talk to everyone like a child. There's a congressman here, a congressman, who knows what to say about what to say. Mr. Secretary Kamer, I will answer this vile man from where he sits -- at least that's how I perceive it -- when I'm given the time I'm given the answer. When he said, indeed -- all the MPs have the same feeling as me -- you had to tell Mr. Minister openly, whether he should say to his own person, or not, you had to apologize to Mr. Secretary, not to me. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Let me tell you something: this is the first time I've ever spoken from this bench, Mr. President. Truly, I sincerely say that respect is not incompatible with the height of the seat, nor is it the measure; but respect is earned by the attitude and conduct of the people, by the conduct of the law. I'll talk to you in a minute. With your attitude and attitude today, I'd like to point out that you're not really well-respected. Thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0299par0200	Mr Malik Ecder Özdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0201	Here's the report. I apologize. I've got time. I brought it to read the report.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0300par0204	Mr. Özdemir, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0205	Mr. President says, "I don't respect you." A Parliament Speaker who doesn't respect his MP has no right to respect him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0300par0206	Mr. Özdemir... You're the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0207	First you have to respect the MP, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0300par0208	Mr. Özdemir, you're the Chief Executive Officer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0298par0209	I'm the Chief of Staff, and I know my duty, but please do your duty.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0301par0210	You need to set an example, for example.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0300par0211	I'm afraid you don't. I told you, if it's the way we understand it, I'll give you my word. Even if we misunderstand, I give you my word again. I did not accuse you. I just asked you a question, and I want you to answer it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0302par0213	Mr. President, look, for the first time in this Parliament, budget negotiations are so controversial, thanks to you. These arguments are the result of your lack of objective behavior. Don't remind me of my duty.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0300par0214	Well, I'm glad I'm doing my job.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0303par0215	You're the Chief of Staff, you need to set an example.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0304par0216	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0217	He says I don't respect him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0218	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0219	No one respects the Speaker who doesn't respect the congressman. Here's the report.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0220	Mr. Özdemir, I, the head of the administration, told you that if you called the Presidential Court...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0221	What's the difference? It's not me. The Minister who called you...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0222	As Director of the Administration, I'm ashamed to impose the Civil Code on you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0223	Mr. President, you've still lost your neutrality.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0224	I see shame! I see shame!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0225	It's a shame what you're doing!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0226	You're the Chief of Staff, and that's all that matters.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0305par0227	I say, Mr. President, look, it is your duty to correct what Mr. Minister says or says when he thinks he's miserable.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0228	The talks of the Republican People's Party are over.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0307par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0230	There will now be talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Mr. Elitaş, you made a promise, I didn't see it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0308par0233	I'd like to make a brief statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0306par0234	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0308par0236	Mr. President, thank you. In the talks held on the stand, it's certainly everybody's right to criticize the President, the Prime Minister of this state, anyone, but as long as we don't lose measure, as long as we don't insult them, as long as we don't forge them with personalities, not with personalities. As long as no one has evidence, no papers, and no one accuses anyone else of a label, an accusation, anything's free to go. But the sensitivity that our friend just showed you here with the personality...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0309par0238	He's saying...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0308par0239	Look, I'm still transferring you to Mr. Tanal, I don't know who you are, I'm transferring you to Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0310par0240	I'm listening, Mr. Elitaş. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0308par0241	Mr. Tanal just gave me a warning, I'm transferring him to Mr. Tanal, his friend who told me about him. Here you are doing your duty; you are trying to do your duty by applying the authority vested in you by the Civil Code, to deal with the person, to accuse someone of matters without cause, without documentation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, Mr. Arinc...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0311par0245	Your moment is up, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0312par0246	You gave Mr. Ecder two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0311par0247	He said, "I'm going to explain." Dear Elitaş, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0313par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0314par0250	Mr. President, when Mr. Arinc said something he said to Mr. Arinc that he wouldn't say in the strictest sense of courtesy, Mr. Arinc said, he said, "I'll answer during the time I've been spoken of in the vile manner of speaking about me."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0311par0251	Okay, Mr. Arinc will respond in time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0314par0252	But here's what I expected from Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0315par0253	Look, we're not interfering at all, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0314par0254	When I accused the AK PARTY of being a lackey, I expected Mr. Özdemir (Muhammad) to show the same sensitivity.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0255	Unfortunately, such sensitivities are measured by belonging...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0314par0256	But, unfortunately, unfortunately...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0257	Well, Mr. President, look, even that last line of yours keeps you from being respectable.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0258	...unfortunately, the sensitivities are concerned with who you belong to.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0259	I mean, what property are you talking about, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0260	I've done my duty in accordance with the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0261	How am I supposed to respect you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0262	I'm perfectly comfortable with it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0264	What heritage are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0265	In accordance with the President's Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0266	Everyone knows you belong!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0267	...has the right to interrupt, I've done it...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0317par0268	What heritage are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0269	...friends who don't know can read the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0318par0270	Sir, this is the Chief of Staff! Is that what Administrator does?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0271	And when I did, I didn't insult anyone, nor did I insult a man who was in charge of the Court, only did my duty.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0319par0272	▪ Everyone behaves according to their heritage. It is an insult to say. First look at your own property, then speak to someone else.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0273	Mr. Özdemir, I would like to ask you to protect your presidency in a more sensitive way than anyone else.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0319par0275	First you'll deserve respect, first you'll deserve respect. You'll get respect in that chair first.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0320par0276	Be neutral.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0277	Look, it's fixed here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0319par0278	I've got it, I've got it, I've got it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0279	We've been listening to this for two hours, and it's been bugged over and over again.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0319par0280	I have one too, Mr. President. I'm still telling you, take it, even though you don't deserve it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0281	I'm the President's Court, and due to your attitude...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0321par0282	You're commenting on everything!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0283	...I feel for you that a member of the Presidential Court should be sanctioned according to the Civil Code, and I consider you a disgrace, and I do not put you under the disciplinary law of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0322par0284	Are you threatening me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0285	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0323par0286	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0316par0287	The first speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party is Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0324par0288	You'll be impartial, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0325par0289	That's not gonna happen! What kind of government is that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0324par0290	What kind of style is that? Are you showing off?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0327par0292	Mr. President, I'd like to talk to you about my position for two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0324par0293	You're threatening me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0294	Mr. President, look, for hours, I'm here as a courtesy, Mr. President, and you're not looking at us. I'm sorry...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0328par0295	Let's go on the agenda, Mr. President. Let's get to work.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0296	Look, at least five of your group are standing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0297	Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0298	Mr. Tanal, I gave you my word that you wanted to be bullied.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0299	Mr. President, would you be so kind as to listen?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0300	If He willed, I gave to him, and so did He Sky. But if I promise anyone who stands up, I can't run the House.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0301	Mr. President, you can't even manage the House. Look, Mr. Elitaş pronounces my name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0302	My unbiased conduct of the House does not take place by making promises to anyone who stands up from your ranks, but please understand that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0326par0303	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0304	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0330par0305	You're bringing this coven to this position, Mr. President. We're discussing the budget here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0306	I think we'll come to a healthier conclusion if every person criticizes themselves a little bit.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0331par0307	You too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0308	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0309	Mr. President, for the record.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0310	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0311	In today's debates, you are conducting a hearing making a highly irregular error in the implementation of the Civil Code. Sometimes you get emotional.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0329par0312	Maybe.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0313	The opposition, of course, is that all of our speakers speak the country's truth and ask the power for an account, which is the most common of all. The government will tolerate it because there are corruptions all over the world, there are a lot of antidemocratic practices that are trying to be shut down, and there's a palace like the runaway palace that hurts the public conscience.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0333par0314	Why did he take his word for it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0315	Now, the opposition will, of course, supervise such matters on behalf of the public, and their criticism will be harsh.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0316	But he won't insult you, will he, Mr. Gök?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0317	He'll be tough. All of our friends are here to look after public resources and to supervise for the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0319	Of course, of course...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0320	We're talking budget here. Therefore, there are documents of every word spoken here, every word is true, and yesterday the Prime Minister couldn't deny any of it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0321	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0335par0322	That didn't happen.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0323	That's why our friends...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0324	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0336par0325	He's gonna swear at the police on the street, he's gonna swear at the deputy here...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0326	...you must consider this effort within the framework of the rules of procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0327	Thank you very much, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0332par0328	We condemn you for your attitude.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0329	Mr. Sky, thank you very much, but I don't have to make any promises, whether it's in accordance with the Civil Code or not. I wish you'd read the Civil Code decrees one more time. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0337par0331	Oh, Mr. President, you talk too much of a congressman on this stand! Less talk, less talk!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0338par0332	It's always Haydar.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0333	I can't compete with you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0337par0334	For God's sake, talk less. Let's get this over with.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0335	If I race with you, you'll win, but unfortunately...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0337par0336	What the hell? This is the congressman for five minutes, 10 minutes to the president.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0339par0337	The faithful Yakut rules better than you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0334par0338	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka, who just spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party, were subjected to a taunt by Mr. Mehmet Metiner during his speech. Mr. Metiner used a statement in the form of a lady to Mr. Nazlıakaya.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0341par0342	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0343	We, the People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0341par0344	That's not what I'm saying. What makes you say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0345	We, the People's Democratic Party, refuse to accept the sexist approach...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0341par0347	You don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0348	...and that we don't approve of such an approach to a female congressman...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0341par0349	When did I say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0350	I'd like to at least express that we're uncomfortable here today.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0342par0351	I can see you're uncomfortable with Mehmet, not him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0352	I also wanted to say, Mr. President, that we have criticised you as the Democratic Party of Peoples for not warning Mr. Metiner, and that we don't approve of that attitude.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0354	Mr. Buldan, thank you so much for such a warning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0344par0355	Mr. President, I don't have that kind of statement.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0340par0356	I do. We can ask for the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0357	Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0344par0358	So if he expresss his discomfort in any other way...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0359	Mr. Metiner, I'm talking now, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0345par0360	Why are you shouting, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0361	Mr. Buldan, I want to thank you very much for your concern for this warning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0346par0362	Don't express your discomfort on others.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0363	But since I know you'll believe my sincerity, I've never really heard of such a thing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0347par0364	Let's ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0348par0365	You don't hear what's not working for you, you hear what's coming for you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0366	We're asking Mr. Metiner now, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0349par0367	I didn't say that. I ask Mr. Buldan not to express his discomfort with Mehmet Metiner in this way.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0369	He said he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0350par0370	Let's ask for the transcripts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0343par0371	Let's take a look at the transcripts. I thank you again, Mr. Buldan. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 We will now hear the speeches on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first speaker is Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0351par0423	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. On the basis of the final budget meeting of this legislature, I declare our thanks and a part of our embarrassment to all of our friends, all of our Parliamentary workers, who have worked harder, effort more than we have since the beginning of this legislature. As a member of this Assembly, I'd like to start by saying that I want to start by saying that, especially in terms of subcontracted workers, the agreement of all group vice presidents, despite their consent, that their problems are still going on, as a member of this Assembly, that we lack one thing of our own and a need to be compensated for. Now, many of our friends from each political party have made detailed assessments of the technical aspects of the budget. There's a character in the budget. This budget does not qualify as a budget for the poor, for the oppressed, for the other. And when we look at its direction, we see together that it does not contain an inequality of income distribution, an intention and a photograph of injustice. For him, in fact, the government is aware of that. In a sense, it wouldn't be fair to consider it an inability or a necessity budget. That's the situation. There is no development or will towards investments, a vulnerability that is trying to sustain this economy through speculative money movements and with great risks. So, as a friend of yours, who has been on the negotiating committee since the final process began, I would like to inform you a little bit about the process of the Grand Assembly. Because the process is equal to democracy. Therefore, it is preposterous to expect that from the budget of an undemocratised country. In recent developments, many of our friends, especially on this stand, have begun with the events of October 6-7 and Kobani, expressing their criticism of the solution process. I'm going to give you a few assessments of the point of public safety starting with Kobani. What's the negotiation process, what's going on, we have friends complaining about it, and I'm going to try to tell them what's going on in the negotiation process, what's going on with the solution process, and I'm going to try to explain the issue of autonomy. Now, what happened in Kobani, and we ended up in something like October 6th, 7th? What happened in Kobani, my friends, was that a people saw their relatives, separated by artificial borders, threatened by slaughter before their eyes. We have tried to pass this along with constructive proposals and warnings from the state and government, especially as our party-led boards and especially the Imran delegation. But the families who lost their relatives in that massacre -- look, I'm not taking any part in the people's bet -- or the families who were there, their children who fought against the gangs, collapsed on the border of Kobani, and on Suruç. The approach was: Bilaistna, the gendarme, and the law enforcement forces fired up everything and tried to get it out of the area. We suggested that Mr. Interior Minister and I establish a joint crisis centre there and ensure that the arrivals receive healthy news from there, and that our proposal received some acceptance. However, before this suggestion came to life, the public was so impressed that they were doing things that they didn't want us to see, that something was being overlooked here. When that happened, we began to increase the dosage of our warnings. Because the partnership procedures that we agreed to, in peace, are now coming back to us, and our efforts to run this business on a level of mutual understanding, where people can't be harmed. There, our brothers and sisters were being massacred in front of their eyes, just as they were being slaughtered in Gaza, just as they were being slaughtered in Aleppo, as the oppressors were being killed anywhere in the world, we carefully, with the same rikkatle, tried to get our people to have that responsibility and to draw the government's attention to it in a more intense way. We've had dozens of citizens who've lost their lives -- without any political understanding -- it's impossible to accept any of them, it's impossible not to burn any of them, but I say with all my heart and soul in the process that a person, a parliamentary, a group, a party, the more humanly approachable we are. What happened after that led to the government's reflex: they adopted this process that no one agreed on what was like public safety. I was on the new constitutional writing commission, and there were friends from every party that worked with us. One of the issues that the new constitutional writing commission has discussed most -- Mr. Card here, I see we have other friends -- what is public safety and public order, what is it, what is it, what is it, what is its content, where it can be limited. When it came to basic rights, the government's constitutional approach to fundamental rights was always carried with this reflex: one right is given; for example, public order, public safety, general morality -- these three were sprinkled among all basic rights such as fenni fertilizer. It's been debated by our new constitution study. Today, when we look at the laws brought here for public safety, what the government understands is that I think differently about public safety. If you look at it as a matter of dignity, you need legal regulations that frame order in this country, the number of armbands that will make all the other countries of the world feel mercy. So, it's not a matter of peace, it's a matter of public safety that needs to be discussed through another theory. What have we come across? We don't know what they understand because that's not expected from a prime minister, so it's not expected that he's going to lock public safety into a police frame; there's no way he's going to get out of here if you don't take it with this understanding as a way to cheer up the social, cultural, economic and a series of other issues behind it. The problem would be undefined, and I'd love to call it a solution -- I'd love to call it a law of martial law -- not a law of martial law, but a coup law. If you look at it as a matter of order, it's inevitable that this is the solution you're going to develop. From here, I would like to point out to the members of the government, or to the present, our friends, that we have experienced many times in which Kurd is considered a common suspect, not even reasonable, acceptable suspect. This country has never had the ability or the ability to govern this country without inventing enemies before or before you. At one time, the inventor was the enemy of this order; at one time, the communists were the enemy of this order; one day, the Kurds became enemies of this country under the name of the separatists; one day, the people you shared a power with for many years became enemies of this country; tomorrow you will be the enemies of the country; because this will have to invent an enemy to a wheel, a declaration. Why? He can't trust democracy. His approach to democracy, his approach to human rights or economics or working life. They run it with their uncles. They also bring a working order run by the head of the uncle to democracy and apply it. We'll find some uncles, we'll sort it out. There's no other explanation for this law of security, its contents. So what happened? When you look at people who resist, object, demand their rights in this country, the only result of these arrangements is that they multiply those who resist. If you think you're going to reverse the Kurdish people's resistance, their objection with security laws, domestic security packages, that's a big mistake. Just look at 92 Cizre Nevrozu, the suspicious approach that you brought in today, the soldier had it that day. People were being taken from their corners, their corners, their houses -- if necessary -- executed. The fact that he was a Kurdish was enough to be a common suspect, an acceptable suspect. What happened? There were 400,000 of them that day, four and a half million today. You cannot approach Kurdish with security, you must not approach it. You can't go to peace by preparing for war. It's contrary to the structure of things, to the structure of all other human and democratic things you can think of. In this country, the law, the judiciary and the ruling relationship... whether it's from any political party, or opposition, any of our representatives, come here from the day this republic was founded, I'm satisfied with the justice of the court's decisions in this year's recession, my blood, my blood is fair, he doesn't need to argue. If there is no sense of justice in society, you can't insist on it here. When something's being discussed, it's like a headache, so if it exists, it's spoken, or it's not spoken. Have you ever seen in a Western country, in Western democracy, the fundamental issues of democracy are the subject of discussion? This is what our day is all about. Why? Something's wrong. In this country, what do you think of justice? His words require judgment from the ruling person of justice. Turn a Tripolian -- look, I don't go into politics -- he talks the same way. Beşiktaş... who did I forget? Galatasaray, Fenerbahçeli.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0352par0434	Fenerbahçe, Şanlıurfaspor.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0353par0435	Bigelispor.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0351par0436	Şırnakspor, Amedspor, whichever one of them you translate will call you that. Can you find a football team that says, "We are satisfied with this justice?" You won't find it. Ask the employees. Ask the people you subcontracted and left to your uncle's conscience, to his mercy. Can someone say that I am willing to accept this justice, that something just is going on? He can't. The workers are in revolt, in protest. Different believers are in revolt. Ask the Flames. Today, since this government has arrived, the end of Kurds is unlike the end of Kurds -- Alevi is making the play. I joined at least three or four before I became a deputy. Still, no one wants to start with the alphabet that this is a fundamental human rights issue. If you have a problem with democracy, it's painful and painful. If not, it's a matter of great confidence. When you say public security, we always think of law enforcement, judgment, and the troubled relationship of power throughout the history of this republic. And as a witness, I'm showing you. You people were wrong yesterday, to the people you called parallel with various accusations, to the ACK defendants, and then, we were wrong, to the Ergenekon trials... that's what you said. Then, one day, you start judging the people you judge together. I'm not going to do a separate pathology of these things. So you're not in a comfortable place in the matter of judgment, so I'm keeping you as a witness. So you can't give people confidence in what you're going to complain about tomorrow because you were accusing them of these sentences yesterday, and today. There's definitely something wrong with either one of them. When you say "security laws," you can be sure this is what this country has always been run by. It started on May 27th. Look at the security package you brought in today, the law of May 27th, which you brought in today, in the time between that coup and the Constitution, is what you brought in today on March 12th, whatever it was on September 12th, that's what it was on February 28th. Law is not something that anyone bends to their father's pleasure, it has universal criteria, it has general principles. Once you agree to lean on them, we will save 80 percent of the discussion areas in this country. You can't develop this determination, this frankness, and this self-secure approach. That will not avail him, except to increase him who is in trouble and is steadfast. Leave May 27th, I'm not available to him, I'm saying as someone who's seen all the other times of this country and paid the price, as someone who's curious, who's curious, who's researching more than the average person. Now, about the issue of autonomy. A perception has been created that there's talk of autonomy in the debate... What's the anti-antagonist for that? It's a decentralized attitude. I especially don't understand the reaction of our social democrat friends or certain pens to this. Today, strengthening the local government is called autonomy. It's autonomy for the local government to decide for itself. It's autonomy to participate effectively in decision-making processes, and we've added the quality of being democratic. But everyone in this country who wants blood to flow, who is not prepared for peace, has made autonomy equal to a division paranoia, and is trying to develop a policy.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0354par0442	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0351par0443	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Autonomousness, on the contrary, is the guarantee of self-determination, democracy, and the common country. I'm pointing that out, too. If we were autonomous, if we were ruled by autonomy, we wouldn't have had Ermenek or Soma.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0354par0445	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0355par0446	Give me two minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0351par0447	Mr. President, I rarely go out. Autonomousness is the only thing that lives on this land, not on us, but on top of it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0356par0449	Mr. Commander, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0357par0450	You can give me two minutes, Mr. Hatibe.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0356par0451	Okay, fine. We'll give you two minutes, Mr. Zozani. Thirteen minutes to go. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0453	What's wrong with actively participating in decision-making? Why would that divide a country? What's to stop the people there from doing what they want from their own budget for their social, cultural orientation, preferences, and origins? If Soma, and Ermenek were autonomous, I'll tell you Soma, they wouldn't have had that olive tree removed there. That's what happens when I try to get from Ankara to there. So don't just take this job as a Kurdish matter, you'll be short-sighted. This is exactly the most competent, single-minded way of solving all of these democratic problem areas, the problem areas in our democracy. Besides, we're not saying it's confidential; it's in our Constitutional Proposal, it's in our party program. I'll mix the forehead with the one person who says a sentence that will serve to divide or trigger to divide. Today, let him say, "Let him come, let him bring." Look, this is in your charter. If this is the basis of the solution, it will go here. For him, we have to weigh our words carefully, weigh them in forty cantars, so that the process may not be harmed. This is no way to negotiate. From all other opposition parties to participate in this process, whether they contribute with criticism or not...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0359par0454	Bring him to Parliament, Parliament. Force it in Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0455	We brought him to Parliament, you didn't give him a member. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0359par0456	Come on, come on, forget it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0457	We made a resolution commission, did you give him a member? We're stuck alone with the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0359par0458	You'll bring him to Parliament. Secret negotiations don't solve things.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0459	Did you give it to him, member? You made the Solution Commission. It's easy to wave a finger from there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0360par0460	Mr. Speaker, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0461	I'm telling you right here. Aren't you a member of the Socialist International? Go see if you can... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Go see if your Socialist International doesn't connect you. Bring him to Parliament... Aha, we brought him to Parliament. The Solution Commission is there. You're derailing him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0361par0464	They'll put you in the sack with secret bargains.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0358par0465	You didn't, Mr. Gök, please remember. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0362par0468	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0363par0469	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0362par0470	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0363par0471	In the discussion between Mr. Commander and our friend, Mr. Commander, what did you do as a member of the Socialist International? If you'd like, I'd like to make a statement about that for two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0362par0472	Yeah, he said you didn't sign up for the solution process as a party. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0363par0476	Mr. President, in a very important, huge problem such as the Kurdish problem, the Republican People's Party has declared its readiness to contribute to the solution of this problem with very sincere feelings all along. On the first day this came to the agenda, our president told the Prime Minister of the time to resolve this matter, and I'm giving you an open loan. He said something in the form of a loan, but it was pushed away. We don't need to be able to...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0364par0477	Mr. Kamer's been doing separatist literature all along. What solution are you talking about? Be a little primitive.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0365par0478	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0363par0479	...the way we see it is that this matter is very important, that all of Turkey has its sensitivities. We believe that this problem will be resolved by improving our democracy, by improving our human rights, by eliminating all sensibility, in the knowledge and transparency of the House under the control of the House with a commission of all parties in parliament. The Republican People's Party is behind this model it proposes, but in the meantime, we're dealing with a model that our friends in the AKP don't know, that the ministers don't know, that only a few people know...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0366par0481	If you're wrong to use words, take care of your group, and don't let them say anything.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0363par0482	...we're going through a process that even the executives of the affected party don't know about, which is a dangerous way to go. It's in the best interest of all of us that this issue is transparent, that the issue is moving forward in a healthy way, and that this question is really off the agenda. The Republican People's Party has a very valuable stance on this issue, and we're ready to settle it, but under the roof of Parliament, it says, in the case of transparency, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0366par0484	You've solved it, so you've solved it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0367par0485	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0368par0486	Mr. President, just a statement from my position, a statement from here...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0367par0487	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0368par0490	Mr. Levent, thank you very much with all my heart. It's our request, you're welcome to join the Parliament in these mechanisms, and all parties will be included. Joining these commissions in parliament does not mean joining our proposals, our thesis. Therefore, whoever opposes, objects, believes in his contribution, the more he joins in, the more we get out of this line of defense. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0369par0493	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0370par0494	Metiners, that's how you talk, learn. It's not like you're making small talk out there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0371par0495	If you're wrong to use words, you won't throw them away in the morning, you'll watch your tongue.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0370par0496	I mean, find out.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0372par0497	Well, you're talking.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0371par0498	You'll say all kinds of things...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0373par0499	Congressmans, please... 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Ayla Akat will speak for him, Batman MP. Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0374par0550	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the budgets of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you with respect and love. The budget is mandatory for institutions and organisations to perform public service, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is in a position to oversee its executive body through budgets at each budget meeting. First of all, in order to reduce the pressure and influence of the judiciary on the judiciary while drafting the budget of the judiciary, we believe that the budget of the judiciary must be prepared primarily by sharing it with relevant institutions, organisations and other political actors, public opinion, with relevant segments, and that there should be some care that will not cause this pressure. Dear lawmakers are an unbiased and independent, non-politically-insulting need. This is vital to a democratic society that can live with an effective justice system. In the European Court of Human Rights, independence is defined as not taking orders from another person in the court, especially outside the scope of the administration and the influence of the parties in the case. Neutrality, however, is explained as a lack of prejudice that will affect the case's resolution, especially if some of the courts or members of the court have no feelings or interests in their favor or against them at the level of parties. A lot has been said in the eight years I've witnessed from this bench about neutrality and independence, but I want to say again that having to define neutrality and independence in this Parliament on the basis of a budget meeting is linked to the concrete truth of Turkey. The Supreme Court has always been in conflict with its decisions and the principles of the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. In mutual interaction with political power, military and civil bureaucracy, it is impossible to consider a judicial institution together with the principle of judicial independence, nor is it possible for a high-judgment office to remain neutral when it assumes its mission to protect the state. In cases where Kurds, Alevis, minorities, women and all others are on their side, as in the past, the Supreme Court has now signed decisions that have always led to open violations of human rights rather than controversial. It is known by the Supreme Court that discrimination has been made against women in cases of murder, violence and rape against women. Just yesterday, he was murdered by his wives and boyfriends in Kütahya. The attitude of the judiciary and the punishment of perpetrators in women's massacres deepen the violence against women. Again, the Armenian is a typical example of the past decisions on Greek foundations and the Hrant Dink decision on non-Muslims. Today, we see that this approach has become a rule, especially in cases where Kurds are tried. The murders committed by the state's security forces have been taken under the umbrella of total punishment by the Supreme Court's decision and conviction. The perpetrators of almost none of the murders committed by law enforcement against civilians, teenagers, children are being punished. The Kurdish issue, any statements and statements regarding the protection of Kurdish identity, is openly criminalized by the Supreme Court in violation of universal human rights standards, the subject of trial is being made and the owners of testimony are being punished. The Supreme Court, which the law has deliberately insisted on describing as flexible and vague, has further deepened the problem with the decision that the Supreme Court has made in 2008, even though some of the relevant substances have been altered. We know with the verdict and conviction of the judge that the problem in these cases has been deepened and the state of punishment has continued. We are the Supreme Court 9. With the decision and conviction of the Criminal Office, we believe that almost all of the Kurdish political activities are imprisoned within the definition of an illegal organisation. Nine. The structure of the Criminal Office, the cause of the cases here, the identity of the elected members and its judicial careers must be illuminated. With Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law, the first-level courts in office are closed, but their appeal body is nine. The Department of Corrections is still open. Courts equipped with special powers and tasks have been witnessed throughout the history of Turkey, incompatible with the honor of humanity. For democracy, human rights, an independent law and a fair trial, the Supreme Court is almost the same as the special authorities. The Criminal Office must be closed. Dear MPs, the Prosecutor's Office is a judicial organisation that serves as an advisory and decision-making body for the executive bodies of the Republic of Turkey and serves as a judicial authority for the administration. Unfortunately, however, his decisions, public opinion, are diminishing his judgment at the point where he acted fair and impartially in carrying out this mission. Finally, Soma Yrca's decision was made on October 28th, but ten days later, because this decision was served -- it's a very common concept in law -- irreparable damage. There's no late justice, there's no justice, there's a time of transparency. During the deadline of the decision, yes, perhaps the relevant lawyers were unable to reach the decision, the applicants were unable to reach the decision, but probably those who were employed by the government had arrived; probably those who were there to cut down the olive trees that olive trees reminded mankind of, those who were reminded of, yes, they did. The decision was delivered the day after 6,000 olive trees were cut down. The fact that this decision reached the applicants a day later, yes, did not remove the landscapes that appeared the day before. The fact that all the villagers rose up for their olives, hugged them, put their lives on the line to protect them, all of Turkey watched with great sadness. But the fact that the steps that need to be taken at the point of transparency on this issue have yet to be taken stands before us as a serious flaw. What, though, is the focus of political power, the focus of the Court and the Supreme Court when the situation is so dire? Of course it's about being a judge. To this end, the process is adopted by increasing the number of apartments and members. With the new package of judgments, the Supreme Court, 38 apartments and 387 members, added eight apartments and 129 members, became 46 apartments and 516 members. The prosecutor's office has been appointed 17 apartments and 195 members, including 14 cases, one administrative, 15 apartments and 156 members. However, we know that this is not the answer, because what's the bottom of this? More apartments, more staff, more members. So, what's the motive as a result? Releasing the burden of the case, reducing the burden of the Supreme Court and the State's case. After the 2010 referendum process, a similar method was adopted, the circle and the number of members had been increased, but looking at last year's data, we see that increasing the number of apartments has not, unfortunately, affected the trial to be seen and done faster, still on the shoulders of the Supreme Court and the Court. What can we say from here? We can say to the government: The way to deal with the special judgment of the congregation is not to build another special judiciary, and political power, whether late or not, will understand and understand that this method is not the right way. Dear MPs, the Constitutional Court of the Constitution has been debated as much in the history of the Republic of Turkey as it has not been discussed in recent days, on the basis of the laws issued by the Grand National Assembly and on the application. After the adoption of the amendment referendum on September 12, 2010, the Constitutional Court has also been granted the right to submit individual applications by increasing the number of members and courts, and the conclusion is that the entire reality of the society of Turkey has been brought to the European Court of Human Rights, after it has been exhausted, is now going to the Constitutional Court, and the decisions made by the AIHM (the AIHM), which has not yet been revealed to any of us. I would like to point out that I have seen the Constitutional Court's efforts at the individual appeals point in which it used its own method of judgment and discretion to make up for its legal precision, the universal declaration of European human rights and norms. The most controversial decisions, you know, were about the dam. We can say: The dam is in Article 33 of the Election Law, and most of which concerns us, because we did not form our group in Parliament by crossing the dam; we gained the right to enter independently and form a group in Parliament because most of us were not facing a dam in our electoral district. We've had the opportunity to go over the dam, over 50 percent, to send MPs to Parliament, even though they're independent. Was there an example of the 10 percent dam? Yes, we've told you many times, such an example doesn't exist in Western democracy, only in Seyshel Islands in the world. There are no 10 percent dams elsewhere. You know, valuable lawmakers, with the 1995 amendments, the Constitution has been given the principle that the election laws will be held in accordance with the principles of justice and stability in the representation of the rules of governance. Has the concept of justice and stability balanced each other in the representation? No. In the name of stability, justice could be ignored, ignored. That's why, as a matter of fact, the AKP came to power alone in the 2002 elections, but almost half of the country's population was not represented in Parliament. If the voter who voted in 2007 and 2011 is able to carry himself to Parliament has increased, it is due to the decision of our party to enter Parliament with independent lawmakers, otherwise the 10 per cent election dam, unfortunately, does not provide justice in representation. But stability, yes, is perceived as a single party at this time, but stability is not an element that can only be achieved by one party. We believe that the removal of the dam is equivalent to the value of public participation in government. It turns out that the dam is the greatest gift of September 12th to all political authorities. From September 12th to today, it is the greatest gift for all political parties who have come to power since 1980. Out of power, an understanding develops that strives to remove it while in opposition, but, after coming to power, makes it necessary to live and live with it. Now, the only thing we can say from here is that it's important for the people to join the government because it's not a voter. The public should be able to join the administration with its opinion, its preference, its priorities. In order for this to happen, we believe that justice is served in the representation of the people of Turkey, and that the dam must be dropped, absolutely, in order to reach the days of a stable administration. Is that a judgment call? This really happens with a mind-blowing revolution. We, as a party, are in favor of a mental revolution, but it's also a fact that if the breach has gone ahead of the Constitutional Court today, as it did in the past before the European Court of Human Rights, and because of the decision made by the European Court of Human Rights today, yes, I'm using that margin of appreciation, I can promise you that if it's at the point, we believe that he can make both a violation decision and a mistrial. Dear lawmakers, with the size of individual applications to the Constitutional Court, must finally say: The extent and the amount of time these applications will be concluded is of considerable importance. Because the court's concern for delaying decisions or against universal law laws was also being moved because the Supreme Court had a negative record, especially with its rulings on party closures. However, many of his decisions over the past year have been criticised by certain environments, but they have been positive as a result. For example, the continuation of key decisions made by the Constitutional Court began with the arrests of arrested lawmakers on grounds of violation of the right to be elected and the limitation of their long imprisonments to five years. As a matter of fact, the closure of Twitter had created a public debate and an important agenda. At this point, the Constitutional Court has shown a positive attitude and has made a positive decision. The Supreme Court also signed a decision to lift the provisions of the Minister of Justice for the regulation of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which deepened the debate on the independence of local law before the elections. The Constitutional Court has recently made decisions to comfort a large part of society, while the government has also been exposed to reactions from its front, which is natural because it has a role and a mission that limits power. As a matter of fact, the Supreme Court, which was praised by the government for its decision not to be closed on the AKP closure case, had suddenly turned into a structure that had made the decision to lift the Twitter ban. The Prime Minister's words,, today that robe may make you strong, but it will damage this country. The expression "legality of the law" has become a good question. At this point, it is dangerous for the government to take the Supreme Court to face the following developments in the country's agenda, the records of the registrar, the parallel judiciary debates, while at this point, the government has shaken the confidence of the judge. For the loss of the legitimacy of the law, the degradation of the functioning of the judiciary, the decline of the understanding of justice, in short, the corruption of the law, will have an effect that takes back social economic gains. In this sense, it is dangerous to target this structure by political power as the Constitutional Court provides a guarantee for the community. As a result, valuable lawmakers must approach and seek solutions in a sincere, honest, and consistent manner to the issues of political rule law, judiciary and justice. In societies where there is no judgment, the chaotic environment in societies where everyone's own search for justice is a landmark for most countries in the history of the struggle of the world. This is the day whereon there is a lesson. It will not result from this day until now, as it has failed, neither through judgment nor without judgment, to cross, to ignore, to eliminate the mechanisms in which they can use their rights and laws. To this end, steps to the construction of a fair, democratic and humanitarian judiciary, which can achieve as much common and common consent as possible in all parts of society, along with other parties and actors, must be immediately taken. We are aware of this urgency and are ready to play our own historic role and mission. With these feelings, I respectfully salute the House of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0375par0574	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party, the fourth speaker is Mr. Alton Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0376par0578	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, this is the third budget, and I'm here to welcome you with regard to the President of Religious Affairs and the Foundations. However, unfortunately, there has been no serious adjustment to the issues we've been repeating and mentioning for the past three years. In front of the public, at such a serious time, instead of polemics in budget talks, I would like to present my views to you in the most reasonable way possible. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to focus on the President of the Religious Affairs. The status of the State of Religious Affairs has been discussed in Turkey for years, and we, together with some friends of ours who are now members of the EC PARTI, discussed this issue in a way that would prevent even intellectual debates today with all its details in New Ground magazine years ago. The heart would wish that the people who are in charge today, the people who are in the government, and the friends who sit in the positions of power, would approach the Diet within the framework of these views, and that our study of the Diet 20 years ago would also be carried out in accordance with this study of ours twenty-two years ago. Now, what are these evaluations, dear friends? We can look at the Ministry of Religious Affairs from two angles: one of them is the practices of Islamic religion, the Prophet, Muhammad Mustafa (SAV), the Four Caliphate eras, Emevi, Abbasi practices, and the fetishes given by the great religious imams, and, secondly, we can discuss Lailaism with the paradigms of the secular republic. Dear friends, when we look at Islamic law, it's forbidden for religion, Islam, ulamas, angels, sultans, emperors to go under it; it's wrong. I mean, there are dozens of fetishes in the history of Islam, applications. One of the most important examples is Imamaazam Abu Hanife. On that day he refused to follow the successor of Abbasi, who was a bearded man, and a penitent, and a praying man, and a faster, and the religion was not at the command of the state. Because executives can be fair, they can be cruel, they can be adequate, they can be inadequate. The scholars who rule in the name of Islam -- and we don't have a clergy class, you know, there's no clergy class in Islam -- have only the obligation to establish the opinions they've gained from the Quran, from the Quran, from the events, from the doubts, from their own understanding. This cannot, in any way, be put under the command of a political authority or a demon or a sultan or a goon. This is a very clear judgment of Islam. I'm not going to tell you the interpretations of a long history of Islam, or the practices of Eshiri, Maturîdî, Imamazam, Malik, Hanbel, Shafii, Gazzali. For example, Imam Gazzali has brought this to such a point that during the end of his life he has forbidden himself from sitting at the table of the sultans. There is already a very famous saying in the history of Islam, that the wise, the sincere, the devout, the sultan, stays away from the table, and the wise sit with the scholars. There is a famous assessment. Let me end this here. So, what's the secular issue? In terms of secularism, as well as secular state -- this is in Western democracies -- in the United States, in France, in Germany -- religion and state work are separated from each other -- so in a secular state, and in a secular republic, it does not interfere with the religion and the religious life of the state, as we were taught in the first school -- so in a secular state, and in a secular republic, it does not interfere with the religion and the religious life of the state. Whether it's Islam or Christianity or any other idea, sect or whatever. Now, in terms of Islam, and in the case of today's Head of Religious Affairs, it's strange, and in terms of secularity, it's strange. Currently, under the Prime Ministerial ministers, he has a status as a general manager. He's on a transfer, he's on a transfer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0377par0586	Above the ministers.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0376par0587	No, no, not on you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0377par0588	The list of protocols has changed, on top of it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0376par0589	Now, in such an arrangement, it is not possible for scholars and mosque imams, who teach the laws of Islam, to speak or to speak in a manner that sometimes angers the authorities or does not come to their account, to speak in such a way that it is not possible with this hierarchy. Oh, how's that? He talks, declares, after a while he's relieved of duty, so at best, the other forensics, legal prosecution is something that comes after him. Dear friends, what we expect from our friends is that whether they embrace the secular paradigm or the Islamic sensitivities, they have to establish a status that should be the President of Religious Affairs, so there is no foundation called the President of Religious Affairs. The release of religion to civil society, according to religion, according to religion, is the construction of a new civil society, which, in whatever way society believes, is organized, and so is religion, cult, madresa, etc. Now, of course, there's another constant criticism, you're right, you're right, you're right. There's over 40,000 mosques today. There's a few hundred thousand members of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. How are we going to remove it, how are we going to remove it, how are we going to liquidate it at a moment, it's not actually possible, and it can cause a lot more different infections. This is not a political response, not a scientific response, not a scientific answer. So, politically, there's -- there's an expression -- and let's face it -- and let's say it's understandable -- then why is the President of Religious Affairs now putting this into a monotheistic structure, according to the Sunni religion of Islam? So again, it doesn't apply to Islamic law, it doesn't apply to secular law. So all their beliefs will be open if there's an arrangement about beliefs, a pre-opening of the state, a support, and I'll say it again and again, maybe we can accept this for a temporary period, until they're completely left to civil society -- so they'll be open, and they'll be open, and they'll be open, and they'll be open, and so on and so forth, and so forth. Until they remove this, they will be given the right to a temple for citizens of Alevi, as Sunni Muslims also accept a mosque for the mosque, and if they are paid, perhaps the state will give them the priest's salary and the rabbi's salary again. So when we're discussing the truth of a job, the error of it, we need to discuss it principlely. Like I said, there's no way to explain something this wide in nine or ten minutes, and I wish I could tell you about it. I'd like to say a few words about the foundation. The foundations are the foundation of our civilization, which is one of the most important institutions of Islamic civilization to boast about, but unfortunately today, a large portion of the foundations have been re-stated, so these NGOs, whose face should be facing society, are also under the control of the state. Well, hasn't the government done anything good? So much restoration, foundation, caravansaray, han, bath, mosque, madrasa, all right, these are good things, but in our society, there's also individual foundations, family trusts -- which are a huge majority of the foundations, even the Padishah Foundations know that, but these are the toys that are in the hands of these families today, in the hands of the trustees. Let me give you an example from Diyarbakır: 5 million square metres of family land has been developed; 3 million square metres, 3,000 acres of land has emerged. He gave it all to managers, contractors, from 20 percent to 25 percent, family, and government co-operation; he took hundreds of millions of dollars out of the open and transferred them out. This needs to be stopped. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0378par0596	Thank you, Mr. Tan. The fourth speaker on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party is Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Mardin MP. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0379par0601	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group regarding the Turkish Human Rights Foundation budget for the proposed bill. Dear MPs, as you know, December 10th was the 66th anniversary of when the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted by the United Nations. I would love to say something positive about the basic problems of human rights, basic rights and freedoms in the country just after this meaningful day, but I regret to inform you that this brief discussion of basic human rights and freedoms in the country is a very negative one. First, in the world and in our country, on this meaningful day, I honor all the people who have lost their lives in the struggle for human rights, democracy and freedom. Dear friends, a public report by human rights institutions yesterday announced Turkey's one-year human rights report. In 2014 alone, 2,000 people died due to human rights violations, the report said. Police violence against people in mass demonstrations aimed at adopting Kobani's resistance is among the violations of human rights in 2014. The AKP, which has come to power with a new Turkish slogan and has been increasingly authoritarian for the past few years and is trying to unite all state institutions in its own monopoly, is trying to narrow down the area of basic rights and freedoms that have already become a gangrene with a new security package, and to make the opposition breathless. Nearly 2,000 murders in our country in 2014 are all violations of human rights. The right of life violation includes not only the killings committed by the state's security forces, but the violations committed by the third party, but by not fulfilling an effective state's obligation to prevention and protection. In 2014, five people died in custody, including one from Turkey, one from Afghanistan, one from Ukraine, one from Rojava. 39 people lost their lives and 61 were injured because of the unjust execution of law enforcement forces, or because they did not comply with the warning, or because they opened fire at random. Again, 21 people, 5 people, 50 people in unsolved murders by village rangers, 38 people in prisons, 35 people in suspected deaths as a result of law enforcement interference in meetings and demonstrations. 294 women died due to male violence, 458 women were injured, 142 women were harassed and raped. 11 people were killed by hate killings, racist attacks and lynchings, while 1,723 workers were killed in business accidents and murders. 27 people lost their lives, 85 injured, as a result of gunfire fired by security forces to people who tried to cross the border of Rojava alone. A total of 726 people have applied to the Turkish Human Rights Foundation for torture and abuse in the first 11 months of 2014, and have been proven by reports of torture and abuse in 257. Again, in the first 11 months of 2014, a total of 1,018 people, including 64, have applied to the Human Rights Association on charges of being tortured by security forces and village rangers. Dear friends, many people had put great hopes on the process of peace and democratic solutions in 2014. But unfortunately, this year has been recorded in the country's political history as a year wasted in the name of democracy, freedom, peace and justice, like so many other years. When no progress is achieved in the Kurdish problem, which is the key to the human rights and democracy problem, it is not possible to make progress in the area of women, labour, democracy and as a whole. In 2014, the government's efforts in peace and negotiations were far below expectations, and as the government tried to keep the process under one-sided control, the public's doubts increased and hopes for the peace process gradually began to wane. The reluctant attitude of the government in putting the process on a legal basis and the government's increasingly authoritarian and compressing the entire issue into the public order and security axis has severely blocked the process. When we look at all the peace and negotiation processes in the world, it shows that conflicts that leave deep scars on the memory of societies can only be possible with sincerity, a desire for change, and courage. The mind of a state who hesitates to face the past, even set up commissions of truth and justice has now become the slowest part of the resolution. On top of all that, investigations, arrests under the name of the KCK over the past few months, children under 18 years of age taken into custody in Law 6008, which has made changes in the TMC, cannot be tried for membership in the organisation. In spite of the decision, dozens of lawsuits against children from membership of the organisation are seriously risking the peace process. In the first 11 months of 2014, 643 people were released from the previous years of the KCK cases, while 2,380 people were taken into custody at the same time, 377 people were arrested. Of the 2,380 people taken into custody, 1,887 have been found in September, October, and November. So, when the government releases people from one door of the prison, they're putting them back in the other door. In the first 11 months of 2014, 803 people were arrested, including 410 of children, 8,405 of whom were taken into custody, 68 of whom were children. As censorship and pressure on the Internet and the press continued, the total number of activities banned in 2014 reached 82. Only when a statistic of the total number of prisoners and convicts left in prisons shows the reality of the situation. As of November 2014, there are 154,197 prisoners and prisoners in prisons. When the AKP came to power, it was only 59,429. But in all the other countries of the world, except our country, the number of people staying in advanced democracies and prisons is inversely proportional. The fact that there are 1,984 children in the prisons of this country today stands before us as one of the greatest shames of this state. When we measure the world's standards, one of the three defendants is arrested, while one of the two defendants is arrested in Turkey. With the arrest rate and the number of prisoners so high, it also reveals where we are in the world standards. While studies have been conducted to reduce that, it has become clear that judicial packages are not a drug to the problem. In recent years, the trial needs to speed up the length of its detention period, which has been constantly on the agenda, and the judicial body is doing a great job in order not to be victimised. Since the 1970s, legal regulations must be made for people who have been in exile for political pressures to return to the country as soon as possible. Hundreds of life-rights violations, particularly the Roboski massacre, which took place in the memory of the March 2006 events in Diyarbakir, and on the last 6-7 October 2014, claimed the lives of dozens of people, including civil rights killings committed by state forces, must be carried out with an active investigation and the criminals will be brought to justice. It is the duty of a real state of law to bring these people out of the protection of the judiciary if the perpetrator has committed crimes against the right to live even on behalf of the state. A number of legal regulations in the last legislature, which have engaged public opinion's agenda, have not been a cure for trouble, have not gone beyond deepening problems. Not even the arrangement for patient prisoners in that package, which reduces the right to defend in the main language to limited use, has found no life. I would like to address the government in particular: In 2013, 243 of the 657 sick prisoners were in critical condition. 73 people were evacuated due to people's stubborn efforts and resistance, and three people died in prison because they couldn't be evacuated. Today, 230 of the 581 sick prisoners are still in critical condition. The only thing that some of these people's families want is for them to die among us, even if they are to die. This issue is more of a human matter than a political one, a matter of conscience and humanity. On the one hand, the number of refugees who have been abused by human traffickers has reached nearly 2 million people who have struggled to survive in harsh conditions in their camps on the other side. While 220 000 refugees and asylum seekers from Syria live in good conditions, millions of others live far from the most basic human conditions, especially food and housing. There have been no return centers for asylum seekers who have been employed under slave conditions and have been sentenced to begging, and no law has yet been passed to determine the legal status of these people. In particular, hundreds of thousands of women, old and children, who come from Shengal, Ninova and Kobani, and struggle to live in heavy winter conditions in tent cities, expect the temporary protection status known to Syrian refugees to be recognised to them. With the latest legal arrangements, all improvements and reforms in the field of basic rights and freedoms were suddenly eliminated. It is remarkable that all of these arrangements were made after the October 8, 2014 Turkey Progress Report for 2014, presented to the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee for Regionals. Likewise, a part-page general reason for the fourth judicial package that has been released earlier, in different terms, has been stated that the purpose of bringing the bill was to correct our country's negative outlook in the international community three times. Former Minister of Justice Mr. Sadullah Ergin insisted that the package was intended to reduce the number of convictions in front of the European Court of Human Rights. To organize the bill with the freedom of thought and expression... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...who has been held in prison for years for fulfilling their rights.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0623	Thank you, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0379par0624	Thank you, too, and I salute you. Even though I haven't finished.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0626	Thank you. Excuse me?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0379par0628	Even though it's not finished, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0629	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0381par0630	How many years did Mrs. Gülser stay in prison, and she has the right to say...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0382par0631	He used to have a lot to take in, Mr. President, so we'll regret it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0632	Well, let's consider him next time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0383par0633	Well, I've got some hidden rights left, actually.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0634	I believe Mr. Buldan has a statement to make. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0384par0638	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've just made a statement that both Mr. Mehmet Metiner and Mr. President are insensitive to the statements of Metiner. But we've just heard both the transcripts and the recording. There's been a misunderstanding, a misunderstanding. Mr. Metiner used the word "Mr. Ozkes" not "Nallıaka" to Mr. Ozkes. We understood this word as a lady. That's why I'm taking back my words. But I also want to let it be known that our sensitivity in this matter continues, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0380par0640	Thank you. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Now, let's talk about Mr. Fair Zozani, the Deputies of Hakkari. Your speech time is thirteen minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0690	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to make an assessment of the Court budget because one of the most important elements of the budget we're talking about is that this budget is manageable. Whether this budget can be audited or not; in the name of Parliament, for us, for all of us, in what measure can the budget be controlled, and I believe that this should be discussed to the fullest. Last year, he was a subject of controversy. In our debates here last year, we've basically expressed that our debates, our evaluations, will be a quorum, because they included a preliminary assessment of last year's evaluation -- they're important for the record and for the formation of a quorum, and we've expressed our views. So, in our assessments here last year, we discussed the changes that needed to be made in both the Law of the Court and 5018, and in the sequel, we said: "The Plan and Budget Commission, the Court reports -- which had never been there in the last year -- have come in part this year -- there is no chance to evaluate these reports in length, with rights, or with rights. Because of the workload, the Plan and Budget Commission has no chance of doing such a thing. We're doing the same thing today, but we made that suggestion last year. We said last year that at least a certain account commission should be set up. We said that the Parliament must, certainly, establish, to evaluate the Court's reports. It's a year behind. We're looking at the same point a year later because no suggestion was taken into consideration. And members of the ruling party, basically, are not very distant about it. Lawmakers of the ruling party also had positive views on the matter during the commission's work. However, the ruling party must lead the way and set up this commission. The Court reports in Turkey are, in effect, not too old, the tradition of coming to Parliament to evaluate, it is new, it began after 2010, the law was passed in 2011, and we are talking about an application that is being tried to implement. However, there is no chance of getting results from a half-assed control mechanism, the final account commission needs to be established, and the final account commission needs to serve as a commission for opposition parties to take part in the weight. So, the exact account commission that's going to be formed here would have to be an opposition-based commission. That's the way it is in the world, in all the countries that set up the final account commission, even the head of the final account commissions in advanced democracies is elected from members of the opposition party, so that the commission can oversee enough of its work, that parliament can oversee its work, that there may be a position that gives the Court the right to the audits. I'm afraid we haven't taken steps in the time we've left behind. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you've all received additional tablets to 656. They've been sent to each MP's office. They've been in every congressman's office since last Friday. I don't believe that any member of parliament, including additional opposition sheriffs of 657, could have done a review of these supplements, because it's not possible. I mean, I'm not saying this because I believe the congressman doesn't want to do this, I'm saying it because it's not possible. Look, there's an extra ruler behind you, Mr. Naci. And you didn't look, and there's books on your back. From here, you can't see the back seat from the size of them. Do you know how many pages total? 15,916 pages of documents have arrived in every congressman's office. 15,916 pages in front of MPs. Which congressman was able to examine it? No one has ever studied it, including members of the Plan and Budget Commission. He doesn't have the chance to examine so many documents. There's only one thing you can do: accept or reject this document that the bureaucracy serves in front of you. Well, you don't have much of a chance to refuse, so you'll agree. Now, could this be called my trial? This would not be called the study. Are you aware of the Court reports? The elements that are laundered in the Court's reports are coming to the agenda of the Parliament. Reports leading to the trial are not subject to Parliamentary supervision. The Court, yes, is auditing for Parliament, but there's been a law on the issues that have been brought to justice that has made you, MP, who are you? I'm not giving you information. We asked, and that's how we got our answer. Look, we asked, and that's how we got our answer. We'll discuss the exact account, the exact account in 2013. How many MPs have the opportunity to evaluate here? We'll clear 2013. It will be asked here in 12 days, read from the stand. This is where you clear your account for 2013. By what? You're not supposed to be laundering it because there are those who have been brought to justice within the 2013 accounts. How will you know what kind of outcome, what kind of judgment? But you will. Parliament will decide before the verdict is made. Can you talk about such an inspection? Could this be called an inspection? It's not called control. Ankara's very dangerous areas are mentioned, but do you know how many light bulbs this Parliament uses in the General Assembly room to shed light on Ankara's deficiencies? Mr. President and the Court probably weren't worried. In this General Assembly hall alone, 1,832 light bulbs were used to shed some light on Ankara's darkness, but we don't see each other. I'm not talking about an affinity number, you can count it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0386par0700	Did you count it?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0701	Your Honor, 1.832 light bulbs were used, but it's still dark, still dark.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0387par0702	Including the flat bulbs?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0703	Now, in this case, in a painting like this, what inspection will you be able to talk about? Look, there are pencils outside the Court's control, there are expense pens. The secret service costs are referred to as pens, which are referred to as euphemisms. Five different institutions have secret service costs, and we don't know that: the Prime Minister's office, the National Ministry of Defense, the National Intelligence Agency, the Chief of Staff, the Security General Directorate have separate secret service costs, and none of them are subject to the Court's supervision. What in God's name does the Court control for me? I ask, what is the Court controlling for us? You will not touch military expenses, he says. In regard to military expenditures, Article 44 of the article 6085, there was once a restraining order. We proposed, we came here last year, and we said, "Let's add a joke here, and let's state here that military spending is subject to open control." We said, "If it leads to an international disaster, do their controls and explanations based on secrecy." We've made that clear, but there's been no mention of it, nothing. The ministers, the Prime Minister, were here to speak up and shout, they said: "O lords, we spend the most money on health and education." I'm sorry, it's not true. That's not true at all. Where in God's name do you get the most funding for education? Can you believe it? Can you believe that number? So, you're really saying that you're spending the highest investment budget on education? If you really believe that even now, I have nothing to say to you. That's not true at all. It's never, never true.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0388par0707	Why, aren't you on the Commission?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0708	Mr. President, you know very well.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0388par0709	You know the numbers, you were on the Commission.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0710	Yes, I know the number, the amount invested in the education budget is 3.6 per cent. You pay your officer's salary.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0388par0711	It's the biggest investment.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0712	Why are you talking when you pay the officer? So, we say the same thing: why do you give so much to the Head of Religious Affairs? Isn't this government going to pay the salary of my faith? Won't this government pay the teacher's salary? The budget you're giving, the education you're giving is the salary you're paying the government officer, not the investment budget. In the budget reserved for the Ministry of National Education, the share that goes into investment is 3.6 per cent in its budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0389par0713	How much was it in the previous days?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0714	So, what's the stake that's invested in military and security spending pens? It's 13.5%. Where are you...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0390par0715	And the soldiers' salaries...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0716	No, I'm putting their salaries aside, I'm saying a percentage of military investment spending by decoupling wages, and I'm saying that in terms of national education, I'm clearing wages. The share in both pens is 3.6 per cent in national education, 13.5 per cent in military investments. E, please don't go out and cheat on the people, it's a shame, so it's not that bad! By turning the truth so upside down, Turkey has so much public opinion, it has so much to do with our people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't try to cheat, it's rude, it doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0391par0719	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0720	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0392par0722	That's the same with our Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0723	I told you the truth, Mr. President, and I'll tease you if it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0393par0724	Congressmans, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0385par0725	Mr. President, Mr. Plan and Budget Commission, I teased him about the President's name, and he'll give me the right numbers, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0393par0726	You teased me, you interrupted me, what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0394par0727	Mr. President, he picked on us.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0393par0728	You interrupted me, you teased me, what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0395par0729	No, no, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0394par0730	Mr. President picked on me with a name.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0395par0731	I did, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0394par0732	You didn't even get to pick on me properly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit03spe0396par0733	Thank you. Thus ended the talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. Now we've come to talk on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. But I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0396par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, the first request for the Justice and Development Party Group belongs to Mr. Hilmi Bilgin. Here you go, Mr. Scholar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0397par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the presidential budget under the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute your high council and our holy nation. According to our constitution, the President is the head of the state. It represents the unity and unity of the nation. The presidential office is the highest representation and administration office in the Republic of Turkey. And yet, in the past, unfortunately, this great nation has seen its presidents, who have ignored most of the nation, who have separated the nation, who have differentiated, who do not understand, who have seen this great nation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0398par0011	Who the hell are they? Explain it so they don't worry!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0397par0012	Looking back, the presidential elections will always be painful in our country. The presidential elections -- a routine event in modern democratic societies -- have always caused crises in our country, and have been open to the intervention of military and civilian custody. Is that normal? Why did the presidential election always cause crises? Why is the presidential office a government that represents the unity of the nation, its unity, and why is it a government that uses powers despite the nation? The basis of these questions is to ignore the will of the nation, to see the nation second class, to understand the nation, not to understand the nation, not to judge the nation. They have approaches, but those who understand them are doomed to lose. That understanding has always lost in the conscience and history of the nation. That is why they remember Adnan Menderes, and Turgut Ozal, and Necmettin Erbakan, with mercy and gratitude, and cast those who wronged them into the dust of history. At this point, politics is about trying to understand people by getting away from that understanding. Let us never forget that people are the strongest judge of right and wrong. Our people are faithful. Our nation never, ever needs guardians, guardians. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers had the desire and the understanding of maintaining status and custody in the former Turkey with some constitutional institutions and the office of the presidency, which did not depend on the will of the nation. The custody centers were not afraid to use the authority they did not receive from the nation against the nation. Unfortunately, they did this with some constitutional institutions and the office of the President. Custody centers, military and civil bureaucracy have seen themselves as the rightful owner of the state, the patron of the nation. Therefore, the President could have had this understanding, this understanding, that guardianship and status, that respect for the values of the nation, the sensitivities of the nation, that think like our nation, that the living sons of Anatolia couldn't have been Presidents, if they had a conscience. This elite, elite military and civilian bureaucracy had lost for the first time in 2007 and almost hit the wall. AK PARTI, a nation movement, who walked with its nation, initially ignored the e-magnition, eliminated its 367 decision by the nation's arbitration, elected the President based on the will of the nation, and was granted its will, its will, through the 2007 referendum. Mr. President, our dear lawmakers, who received the authority and the will to elect their president, have chosen Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as the first elected President in the first round of the election on 10 August. These elections are of great importance to our nation and to our democracy. With this election, Turkey has entered a period of direct selection of the President. On this occasion, despite any political engineering, any kind of perception operation, we are once again grateful to our beloved nation, who chose the nation in the first round, giving a great support to the candidate Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan on August 10th, in its capacity. These choices have once again shown that the scale of the nation will not be lost. In the new era, the presidency of the Republic of Turkey will continue to serve in honor, values and expectations of our state, by carrying out the necessary restructuring process in accordance with the spirit and character of the new Turkey. In the new Turkey, the presidency will use social demands in the most efficient and efficient way the Constitution has given its powers in an efficient way, within an effective organisation in which the state will respond at the highest level. Mr. President will continue to serve his nation with the power taken directly from the public's gratitude. For this reason, the presidential organization structure will also be strengthened according to the elected President and the growing, developing vision of Turkey. Every figure spent on the state's highest representation and administration office will contribute to the country's presence, growth, development, international dignity and economic well-being. On this occasion, I wish you all the best luck with the presidential budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0399par0018	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0019	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0399par0020	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0021	In his speech, the speaker said that the presidents who do not represent the nation are in office. He also mentioned that the president, who has represented the nation since 2007, has been in office. You just interrupted and warned our party speakers. Now, I want this speaker to explain to me who are the presidents, who so far don't represent the nation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0401par0023	People know, Mr. Levent.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0402par0024	Do you consider Canaan the President of the Universe?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0025	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0403par0026	Please, Congressmans, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0404par0027	We've got hit-and-runs.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0028	I don't know. Which one does he mean? But since 2007, the sons of the nation have been presidents of the Republic. It is said that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of this republic, is the president of our party; Ismet Inönu is the president of our party, and they are the president of the presidency; and I want to promise them because of this bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0405par0029	I didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0030	That's exactly what you said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0405par0031	What I'm saying is very clear.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0400par0032	Sir, I took notes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0033	Mr. Sky, would you excuse me for a moment? Can we get a statement from Mr. Scholar? Your Honor, did you mean to say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0407par0035	Mr. President, I didn't say that, Mr. Group Vice President, I don't understand what the objection was.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0408par0036	He meant it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0037	Wait a minute. It says: "Before 2007..."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0409par0038	Promise me no hard feelings, Mr. President, you won't get out of it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0410par0039	Since 2007, the sons of this country have been in the chair of the presidency.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0040	He wasn't the president of the nation. You said...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0411par0041	Yeah, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0042	Guys, give me a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0412par0043	My friends already confirm it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0044	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet Inönu also served as presidents...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0413par0045	No, it's the House's choice, isn't it, President? Then we're not the people's surrogates.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0406par0046	When he did it, you meant that he wasn't a man of the nation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0414par0047	That's a heavy word. I mean, he's either going to fix that promise or he's going to...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0415par0048	Mr. President, this nation has seen elected presidents flying planes over parliament, threatening MPs in the halls of parliament, lobbying. He understood what a normal Turkish citizen should understand because of what I meant.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0416par0049	It's gotten more complicated.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0414par0050	Since 2007...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0417par0051	Mr. Gök, I believe, in Turkey, this presidential process has been troubled, and in some, it has caused coups. I think that's what he meant.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0414par0052	I'm asking the clear question... because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0418par0053	There's teasing all parties, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0417par0054	I don't get it, Congressmans. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0419par0056	Since 2007, the chosen are the sons of the people, and what are the chosen ones before them? For example, what is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Innu?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0420par0057	Who chooses the deputy?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0421par0058	People pick the deputy, too, exactly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0420par0059	There's bullying of Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0422par0060	If he'd said that in the sense that you mean it, I'd have interfered, too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0423par0061	That's exactly what he said. That's exactly what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0424par0062	Mr. President, that's right.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0425par0063	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0426par0064	Now, if that meant anything, I'd intervene, too, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0427par0065	Sir, that's exactly what he said. That's exactly what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0428par0066	In that sense, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0429par0067	That's the one.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0430par0068	That's right, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0431par0069	Wait a minute, guys, wait a minute, I'm talking to Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0432par0070	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point of referring to the people who were the party's presidents because of the proper language, from the stand, from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0433par0071	Mr. President, such a procedure violates the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0434par0072	Do not attach everything to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0073	Now, Mr. Sky, the speaker said he didn't mean anything by it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0436par0074	This has nothing to do with intention, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0075	Frankly speaking, if I were in that kind of perception, I'd intervene, too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0437par0076	But that's exactly what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0438par0077	Three groups don't understand like you do, but only your group does. Is that right, Mayor?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0078	He mentioned the presidential elections that the speaker meant and what I perceived caused the coup process, but if you want to make a statement about that, I'll give you my word of your position.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0437par0079	Mr. President, let me explain in two minutes. Now it's a tease.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0080	But now here's a...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0437par0081	It must have been a taunt.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0439par0082	There's been bullying the Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0083	There is a problem with the implementation of the Charter.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0437par0084	And I'm going to speak in a non-negotiable manner.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0085	Explain yourself, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0440par0086	Mr. President, a minute's promise based on your location...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0441par0087	Yeah, he's already saying what he means.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0088	I promise you, I won't interrupt. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0442par0090	It's more appropriate to address the bench, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0443par0091	That's a negotiation, Mr. President. Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0435par0092	We're putting him on the stand for bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0444par0093	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0445par0094	Don't mess with me, Mr. President. That's why we're asking for it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0446par0095	Who's picking on who?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0445par0096	He's picking on the CEO of our party.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0097	Mr. Sky, I'll give you my word on your position. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0448par0099	But the sentence was important. So...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0100	But I give you the authority to explain in the same way, and I promise you your position, and I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0448par0101	Okay.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0102	There's no way to interpret the bullying you're talking about in the Civil Code. So please, I'll give you two minutes from your position.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0448par0103	He's been picked on, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0104	Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0449par0106	We demand it, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0450par0107	I demand it, too, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0108	I'm talking to Mr. Sky now, and then I'll get your demands. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0451par0112	Now, Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, the sons of the nation began to be president after 2007. Of course, this state has an organization, an institutional philosophy, a great struggle, the War of Salvation...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0447par0113	Of course.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0451par0114	...and the fact that we are here today in this Parliament is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The AKP, the speaker and everyone should know that the factors that have caused us to sit here today pass through the glorious Battle of Salvation of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönun. Now, to separate the presidents of his own party from the presidents of his party, to separate those who were before him, and especially to separate the heroes of the National Liberation War, is a complete disrespect to our republic, to our history, to our roots, to our culture. And also, of course, it's not possible for anyone to adopt the times of impact here, but I think, Mr. Speaker, what would Mr. Celal say about Bayar, who was expressed by his president yesterday and the days before, for example, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, what would Mr. Turgut say about Özal? On the one hand, you will continue to do politics by taking refuge in them, and on the other hand, you will separate yourself from 2007 with a thick line. This is a very serious handicap. Those words have been spoken. The speaker himself must express that he did not differentiate Ataturk (Ataturk) from others, excluding Ismet Inönun (Ismet) from those during the coup, and we must hear this.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0452par0117	Okay, thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0453par0119	I'm afraid he spoke directly against Parliament, our friend. I'd like to make a statement about him. It's better if I do it from here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0452par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0453par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Now our friend says he has been chosen by the sons of the nation and by the nation. Now, who was elected by the previous presidents? By Parliament. Isn't the one elected by Parliament the son of the nation? Or since lawmakers have been elected by the nation, you can't exclude a person who represents them and chooses them.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0454par0124	Who chose the Kenan universe, Cemal Gürsel?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0455par0125	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0453par0126	No matter what president he is, he has insulted all presidents and Parliament, our friend. The fact that Parliament does not refer to what it chooses as a son of the nation is a great insult to the mensua that it is involved in. That's why I resent it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0455par0127	Mr. Zozani, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0456par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the president's direct election by the public is a joyous development in the country's democracy. It's a demand that we've had and spoken for all along, and the direct election of the President by the public is a need of direct democracy, and it's important. However, it is unfortunate that a direct elected presidential mechanism has been interpreted as a derogatory or debacle of previous traditions. It is very clear and clear: the language and style used by the MP has been a separative language and style, unbecoming, not true. It's also our call to the AK PARTY Group. We've proposed the law on this subject, and we've said it over and over again on the floor of the House. While we were talking about it, many MPs reached out to us and reminded us of the name of Canaan's Universe, the name of Canaan's Universe. Yes, the Kenan universe is a coupger, a coupger general, and is now on trial. Tens of thousands of people have their hands all over their blood. Come, together -- as it is -- you are convinced that the Republic of Turkey is a name that does not belong to the presidential mechanism, to that denominator -- let us raise together the presidency of Mr. Kenan Universe. Yeah, it doesn't suit me. It is not right to mention the name of the Turkish Republic presidency mechanism along with the Kenan Universe, along with a coup artist. Let's put this away.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0455par0131	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. Mr. Elitaş, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0457par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Sky's sensitivity. Everyone who is president of this country is a representative of this nation. As a matter of fact, the President is the head of the State of the Constitution. It represents the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish Nation. I mean, including Ataturk, Inönu, Celal Bayar, Gürsel and Mr. Gul and Mr. Erdogan who came this way from that day. In the future, Mr. Sky, we're putting aside what's happened until now, but I'm taking his current speech as a commitment. I expect Mr. Gökyük to object to all statements about Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who currently represents the unity of the Turkish nation and is acting according to Article 104, as head of state. Look, Mr. Sky probably hears people talking in the back, who are talking in the back of their own group. Two: In 2007, the 358 MPs, a representative of this nation, were elected President in a 367 decision by a president who said "Yes" to this nation, unfortunately the presidency was taken from him and then the presidency of this nation was taken away from him in the 2007 elections, giving a huge support to the party in which Mr Abdullah Gul was taken from him. After that, a constitutional amendment was made to change the Constitution, since outside intervention is taking place in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, troops are being brought into the garden of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, MPs are being threatened above the Grand National Assembly by flying planes in the sky, then a constitutional amendment was made in October 2007 to elect their head, and then the nation began to elect its own head. I hereby declare that all presidents who have come from Ataturk (Ataturk) to this day have made the Constitutional amendment to the trial of the President of the coup, which has been contested.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0458par0140	Who's objecting?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0141	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0457par0142	In that sense, I recommend that the Constitution also show Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan the sensitivity of Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0143	Thank you. Congressmans, I've heard all the members of the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0460par0145	One more sentence and I'm out of here...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0148	We, the Court, would like to express our opinion on this: that we offer respect and love for Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and all the other presidents, especially for those who have been President and who have been President of the coup process and who have been President of the coup in person. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0460par0150	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0151	Let's just drop it, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0460par0152	Let me close with a sentence, let me close with a sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0153	Please, Mr. Sky, look, we're done here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0460par0154	One sentence, but...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0459par0155	So we pay our respects, pay our deepest respects. It's impossible for anyone to think of anything other than that, which we didn't. There's an exception. I gave him his reasons for offering this respect. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Yes, the second speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party is Mr. Nevzat Pakdil, Alderman of Kahramanmarash. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0461par0205	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. I pray that the 2015 budget will bring blessings for our nation. My esteemed fellow lawmakers, in the period from 2011 until today, commissions have been established regarding the new constitutional work in this legislative period, commissions have been established regarding the internal charter work, commissions have been set up for the political ethics commission, and they have conducted their work, but unfortunately they have not been able to get any results from these commissions. Hopefully, during the next legislature, these constitutional studies and Civil Code studies will come to fruition. My wish is that the Civil Code be granted a legal status in this period, at least to be implemented in the coming period. My esteemed fellow lawmakers, I must say, they say the tailor can't sew. As a result of preliminary studies during this period, Turkey's Grand National Assembly has submitted a law proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under the signature of 12 members of our parties, but this law has now taken its place on the agenda, but unfortunately it hasn't been legalized and is waiting to become legal. My dear friends, I'd like to express that we all have to empathize first. Here comes laws on the judiciary, laws on other institutions. There's a lot of talk out there in a certain thing, but there's some of it -- it's admirable -- it's unanimous. But I ask you, do we have a law as MPs? We don't have a law. We've put together the issues related to these laws in a different way. They all came together, our entire group of vice presidents signed off on it. But let this law be passed. The moment we say it, you MPs, us lawmakers, all of us, we use everything we can to prevent it from being legalized. Right now, in order for this proposal to be legalized, our Speaker is talking to all concerned friends, groups, and he's trying to get the law passed. In this regard, I ask all of our MPs to support me as president of the Turkish Parliamentary Union. Look, guys, we've got lady congresswoman friends, boyfriends in this Congress. We had friends giving birth. Officers have a right to be born. It's clear how long they'll be off before the birth, how long they'll be off after the birth, but is there such a legal arrangement for our fellow lawmakers? Do our fellow congressmans have the right to give birth to our brothers and sisters? No. So let's guarantee this right, make it legal. Why are we avoiding legislation? Why are we being shy? Now, you see, my esteemed friends, I'd like to express that we've spoken to friends as well. Let's just say that you're out of congress, and you're going to participate in the celebration of Republic Day. You've gone, you've got the location of the head of Tapu Kadastro, the location of the Director of National Education, the bookmaster is new. So where are the 22nd, 23rd, now 24th, 20th, 19th-century MPs? If the governor lets you -- here, we have friends who are governors among you -- if they show you a place, you're gonna go sit in line, or you're gonna bend your neck. Some of you won't go to the ceremonies to avoid such a situation. Is there anything wrong with that? No. Then we'll all have to do it together. Look, the thing about these funerals is the matter of the deaths. In this proposal, friends, there is no rationality. There was an arrangement for traffic, and that arrangement is taken out. What I'm asking is that we see together what will happen tomorrow. Let's get this law out. Our ambassadors are running out of embassies, continuing their diplomatic passport? It does. So, what's your status when you're done being a deputy? It's the same thing as the third degree, but everyone avoids putting their hands under the table.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0462par0214	We don't have the money to go abroad.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0461par0215	It's not about money, it's not about money. Please, let us uphold our laws and uphold our laws. While there's a Parliamentary Court that's behind this, let's either have friends at every party that's on the Speaker's Court sign this or let's have the members of the group sign it, and let's talk about it. When we talk amongst ourselves, it's very nice, let's do it. When we turn around, let's have a look at what we're discussing, what we're seeing over the years, I don't know. Please, let's keep this offer under our signature. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's nothing in it about the rights of lawmakers, just a law clause and a law proposal that determines their status.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0219	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0461par0220	Please, let each of us take care of this matter and make it law because it's our duty as lawmakers as well. Just by putting together the issues of different laws, please let's have a congressman's law.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0221	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0461par0222	I beg of you, I offer the discretion of all our fellow lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0224	Mr. Pakdile, as acting Speaker of Parliament who runs the House, as well as as the MP, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0225	Mr. President. ....
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0226	Third speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0227	Mr. President. ....
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0228	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0230	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding the statements of Mr. Pakdil.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0463par0231	Just a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0234	Thank you. Mr. President, now Mr. Nevzat has made this statement, but now, the entire group of the vice presidents know that the president of our Parliament has already met with group presidents. We've already brought up these issues as the Parliamentary Union and we've taken their views from them. So that's what we're working on. So you don't have to come up here and put on a show just to get the rest of them to sign it. I mean, I'm sorry. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0238	Mr. Halaçoglu, there have been studies like this before. What Mr. Pakdil means to say is that the work that is being done now is complete. Or in the past -- I've been here eight years -- it's been a lot of tests, but unfortunately, there's been a lot of leaps for various reasons. We all know the reasons. Hopefully this time it'll come to an end.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0239	Okay, so it was sent to them and taken back.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0466par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0241	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0242	There's already work on it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0243	It's been done before, that's why.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0464par0244	Maybe, but it's going on right now.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0245	Here you are, Mr. Pakdil.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0467par0246	You want me to turn on the microphone or come to the stand?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0247	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0467par0248	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0465par0249	Here, from your position, I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0467par0251	Mr. President, my esteemed friends, I served here for two semesters, nine years as acting Speaker. In all my work -- my friends who are here -- my life is in the middle, never -- Mr. Halaçoglu, you're a friend we've met before, the word "show" doesn't suit you. I'm not a man who's put on a show all his life. I'm a man who's been pursuing the truth. I'm a man who's been pursuing the truth. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0468par0254	Well, it was sent to us. Why didn't you say so? Did you say we had an opinion? Was it sent to you or not? Why didn't you tell me?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0469par0255	Mr. Halaçoglu, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0467par0256	Mr. Halaçoglu, while I was talking to the entire General Assembly, I said that power or opposition, I didn't say anything, is a duty on all of us, but it's sad that our friend, who's an academic figure like you, is the vice president of the group, is in this position to address a friend of ours who's been running the Assembly for years.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0469par0257	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0470par0258	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I have to finish. Now, has that file been sent to them? Did they send it back or not? Why didn't he?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0469par0260	Mr. Halaçoglu, I mean, I'm having a really hard time understanding. Mr. Pakdil said he believes that all lawmakers in parliament should do this work together. He didn't insult anyone, he didn't criticize anyone. There's a practice in the past, and it's been thrown out while it's been signed. Let's not fall into it again. There's been a talk about it, but it shows that this year's work will not be completed.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0470par0261	But he talks like there's no work.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0469par0262	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0471par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. The absence of a law from lawmakers is an important flaw. We follow the constructive work of Mr. Nevzat Pakdil, who has just spoken, and we thank him. Of course, it's about the reputation of a politician in society. Admittedly, at a time when anyone living on minimum wage is expecting a slight increase, the slightest improvement to lawmakers is attracting an intense response to the community. We are conducting a study in which lawmakers can and will be adopted in the study of non-existent issues. Hopefully, when he reaches maturity, we'll all have a chance to get him through the House.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0472par0267	I hope so. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 The third speaker is Mr. Fahrettin Poyraz, Elekt MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0473par0317	My esteemed President, my dear fellow congressmen, first I salute you with my deepest feelings. I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of my group on behalf of the Court budget of 2015. Yes, first of all, I had the idea of giving a classic budget speech, but at the very beginning, I would like to start by saying that at the very beginning, I would like to start by saying that I welcome and support the humor and analogy of the members of the Parliamentary Union, which our president has made about us. It is also our responsibility to find a solution to our problems, to our own problems, to our own. Yeah, I said we'd talk about the Court budget. I'd like to thank my esteemed members of the court, who have made a commitment to the Court as a third-term MP, even though I didn't ask for it in the first place. They've shown loyalty in a covenant. I worked at the Court and Finance Ministry for 11 years, and I wrote a report for 11 years. For 11 years, we served with our friends in the meeting, reading, reviewing of reports written in the Court of the CIT Commission. In this sense, speaking of which, I would like to say that I have to say here how much the knowledge we acquired at that time in the Court has contributed to our Parliamentary work over the past 12 years, and how much the experience has contributed to our work. And I thank our colleagues, who have worked hard on us in this sense, who continue to do their duty today, and to those who go to the Hereafter, I ask the Lord for his mercy. Again, when we face many problems in this period, let me say that we have always received close support from them, taking advantage of their views. And we've always kept communications channels open at the point of fixing the diagnostics for the functioning of the system during the audit work, and we've done the legal arrangement here at the point where we can give dozens of examples, at the point where we can overcome many obstructions in the functioning of the system. During this period, you know, in the last 2010, we took out the Law of the Court. For about six years before that, the work of this law was done, and that law was passed. Many obstacles have been removed in front of the Court's audit -- although there has been a lot of controversy today. These were done during this period. But in 2012, as the first signator for review of the problems that have arisen from the implementation of the law, a bill was offered with my signature, and we respect everyone's concerns, their different opinions, without starting to discuss it. At a better point, this proposal was prepared. But speaking of which, I once again express our gratitude to our current Prime Minister, our current President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and thank him for instructing him at the point where the process was supposed to work that day. Here's the thing to say: Yes, the subject of the Court is very important, very controversial, and the point of this discussion is... friends, because my time is limited, I'm only going to make a few points. We, in power, complain from time to time, but opposition parties have made the Court -- if you don't mind -- a subject of debate every time it comes to the stand. Well, why? I think that as the EC PARTY, which has been in power for twelve years, I want to identify the lack of opposition here at the point of criticism and suggestion in this sense. On the other hand, one of the main points of the discussion is that our friend, who was just on the stand here, spoke. Dear friends, we call the number of reports, the Court reports, and we ask that the main reports of the trial be spoken here. Well, I thought you said the living-walking-judgment was separate. In the Constitution, the Court was also an authority at the point where it could control financial matters and establish a final verdict. We'd like to discuss the court's court's statements here. Well, then, who will protect the alleged bureaucrats there who will be falsely accused of what the court inspector claims? Mr. President, I don't think you're capable of...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0324	Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0473par0325	...and the members of the profession who work in the Court have a very heavy responsibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Investigator reports in the Court must never leak the main reports to the court.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0328	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0473par0329	In its own way, it will be completed in its own way, and after it has been decided, these matters must be shared with the public. With these wishes, I salute you all with my heart. I wish you the good luck of the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0332	Thank you. The fourth speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0475par0334	Mr. President, you're referring to my speech, Mr. Poyraz said you're also demanding that reports brought in to be discussed here. He made a false statement.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0335	Didn't you say that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0475par0336	No, I didn't say that. If you'll excuse me, I'll repeat what I said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0337	No, you didn't say that because you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0475par0338	Yes, Mr. President. What I said was interpreted from the context. I told you about something else. Let me fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0474par0339	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0475par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, what I'm saying about the Court reports isn't that they're brought in and discussed on the floor of the House. You know, you're missing the point, or you've heard the line in the middle, so you get it. What I'm trying to say is that a budget is on the agenda before the issue of judgment becomes clear. Are we going to discuss the exact account for the 2013 budget this year? We'll talk. Are we going to clear it? If you vote, you will. We'll take it. It will be put to a vote on the 22nd, and the final account in 2013 will be put to a vote. You'll say "yes" or "no," and you'll probably say "yes" as the ruling party MP. What I'm saying is, what I want to remind you is that there are pencils in the 2013 account that are subject to trial, and we don't know anything about that trial. And when you apply to the Court as an MP, the Court will tell you that according to your law, I have no obligation to inform you, 6085. That's something the congressman shouldn't do. You know when you say the orphan has the right to an unfinished orphan, where he has the right to be judged? A budget is being cleared without further discussion, without any clarity. That's what I want to remind you, it has nothing to do with what you're saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0347	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0477par0348	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0349	Mr. Poyraz, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0477par0350	The speaker has made a statement at the very beginning of his words that I know and I do not know. If you appreciate it, I'd like two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0351	All right, let's promise you two minutes. I'm finishing, and I won't even promise anyone, to negotiate on this. Here you go. Two minutes...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0478par0356	My Honourable President, of course, as he has pointed out to me, the correct verdicts, the correct results, cannot be obtained, I admit that, but the fact that the original reports to the trial have been discussed and discussed, and that they have been accepted here in the final account, or that the exact account has been accepted, does not mean that the issues in the trial will be cleared. The Constitution is very clear, and there it says... it's bound to rule. So he gave the authority to eight apartments in the court. The main problem, I think, is that the main problem is that the main report to the trial here is mixed with the other reports that the Court has to submit to Parliament. Our fellow bureaucrats who work for the public in the main report have the right to stand trial. The inspector's interest makes a claim on anything. He is in a state of hesitation, and he casts it into writing, and he says, "What do you say about this?" As a result, defences are taken, and one of the eight relevant apartments will be judged with a clear appeal. So we're here to bring and debate the issues of the reports that are based on trial right now, and frankly, in the context of fundamental rights and freedoms, that is, in the first place, a violation of the right to defend. So let the Court do its duty. We're here to discuss the information and the documents we have and the reports that should be presented to us as Parliament, let's make a decision. Besides, if there's a violation of the law there, if the Court has to file a criminal complaint, it's going to do it on its own, and it's doing it on its own. Notice that the Plan and Budget Commission also spoke to the president of the Court. It's also in that speech about who's being charged with how many crimes. If you want the details, they're already announced, so you can get there easily. But they're definitely different. The main report to the trial says never, ever mix the Court's reports with the court's reports, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0358	Thank you, Mr. Poyraz.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0479par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0360	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0479par0363	Dear President, there is an incident in the social media: For tomorrow, there is news on social media that an operation will be carried out concerning the daily Zaman, the daily Samanyol, the daily Yan, the daily Speaker and some of the writers of Cumhuriyet daily and that they will be taken into custody. (Voices) Do you think Mr. Prime Minister will make a statement about this while he's here?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0480par0364	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0365	Congressmans, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0479par0366	At least in order for social media to relax, for 76 million of our people to live fearlessly, if they have any information, they'd better make a statement, if possible. We'll take a breather. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0476par0368	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 The fourth speaker is Shuay Albay, Elazig MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0481par0419	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Constitutional Court. On this occasion, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. There is no question that the Constitutional judiciary, particularly Turkey, has a democratically legitimate problem in Europe, in the United States, especially in implementing court exercises, along with a formal legal legitimacy. This is the Constitutional Court and its judiciary in Turkey, while trying to get rid of it in terms of democratic legitimacy, legal legitimacy, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court's statements have made it more chaotic and more chaotic. Personally, I would like to point out that I find these arguments useful for the fall of the masks of those who are trying to protect and maintain the guardian system under the guise of democracy. The guardianship system, such as violence and coupism, is the product of collective work, not the product of a single individual. It's a fact without hesitation. With that dignity, he has more than one partner. The courts themselves are undoubtedly not guardians, nor can they maintain custody on their own, but the guardian is the instrument of the system. Unfortunately, since the Constitution of 1961, the Constitutional Court, particularly as a judicial guardianship body, has made its existence more serious in this sense, with the coup and coup of 1982, and has had the misfortune of being the instrument of the guardian system in this way. As the Supreme Court closely follows, the Constitutional Court has made numerous wrong, illegal decisions such as.367 garabet, especially the headscarf decision, and has opened its way for such a reality to cost public opinion, and this Constitutional Court has intervened in both politics with its decisions and has also carried out its mission at the point of being the tool of the guardian system. However, there have been serious developments in democratisation in Turkey, especially in the last decade, along with the EC PARTY, and serious reforms and structural changes on the ground of fundamental rights and freedoms and the legal state have been implemented. The fact that the right of individual application to the Constitutional Court was no doubt a good step, but the fact that the Constitutional Court has established itself as a super appeals court in this application and has begun to act like this, particularly for the protection of freedoms, has resulted in the unfortunate sacrifice of judicial activism. In this scope, the Constitutional Court and its President have made statements and approaches regarding the individual application for the election dam. First of all, it is impossible to assess this request as a simple claim to the election dam as the provisions of the Constitutional Court of 1995, the decisions that the ECHR made in 2008, the Article 33 of the Parliamentary Election Act, and of the 67th Article of our Constitution, as well as the demands of a systemic rights claim, and, in addition to this, it also shows that the Court President of the Court has made statements in a way that will be accepted as "real" in a way, in a way, in a way, against the national will and the democracy of Turkey. The Supreme Assembly has not given the Constitutional Court such authority, that there is no loophole in the relevant law, that this claim can be found and taken to the General Assembly, and that it can be annulled beyond that, is nothing but the power of law, the law, the will of the High Assembly, and the will of the nation. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the President of the Constitutional Court's mandate expires in March 2015. After his term of duty is over, he has his own discretion about what kind of dress he will wear, including politics, but it would be better for him if he did not bring up any approaches and savings that would undermine Turkish democracy and undermine the rule of law, or else history and the nation would not forgive him. While I wish the 2015 budget to bring blessings to our nation, I also declare that we will vote positively for this budget, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0482par0432	Thank you, Mr. Albany. The fifth speaker is Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu, Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Sherbetchioğlu.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0483par0436	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the Supreme Court budget of the Financial Budget Act 2015. On behalf of myself and our group, I salute our beloved nation. From day one, our party aims to create an impartial, independent and independent justice system based on the rule of rule of law, and in this context, it improves physical conditions with the legal arrangements to solve the problems of the judiciary and meet the expectations of society, while increasing the number of apartments and members, while presenting the will for solutions by applying modern IT technologies.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0484par0438	Where the hell is that country?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0483par0439	All these studies are intended to speed up the trial and to ensure the creation of a reassuring justice system. A fair trial in a reasonable amount of time is a right for everyone. In the first written constitution known as the Magna Carta, the right to be judged in a reasonable period, we will not sell rights and justice to anyone, we will not forbid and we will not delay. He has found his testimony and has become an unwavering universal norm over time, without exception in all human rights documents. The right to trial during a reasonable period is one of the most important elements of the right to a fair trial held in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The right to a fair trial, guaranteed by both our Constitution and international documents, and the right to be judged during a reasonable period of time is under heavy labour pressure. Today, many countries face similar challenges, even the European Court of Human Rights, which investigates complaints based on violations of fair trial. In our country, about 6 million cases come before first-degree courts every year. As of October 31, 2014, the criminal offices have a total of 680,000 troubled cases, 389,19,000 in legal offices. If we add 350,000 files still waiting at the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, it'll make sense. The long waiting of cases in high courts undermines the trust of the judiciary and delaying justice is not justice. Although many laws imposed over the past four years have been made to reduce the workload of the judiciary and increase the capacity of high judicial bodies, these regulations have not been enough to resolve the problem. In 2011 -- as you will recall -- two law and four criminal agencies were established, and the number of members was partially increased so that the agencies could work with more than one delegation, but as of 31/10/2014, the period-end-end-of-the-line file numbers proved to be not enough to dissolve the workload in 2011. In order to resolve all these problems and restore the sense of confidence in the public judiciary, eight new circles have been established in the Supreme Court with the Law on Judges and Prosecutors' Laws, some Laws and Laws. In this way, the number of apartments 38 was raised to a total of 46, including 23 laws and 23 prisons. With the new arrangement, I believe the trials will accelerate, and the number of accumulated files will rapidly reduce the heavy workload. In addition to these changes, I believe there will be considerable relief in the fact that the Courts of Reputation will be operational, and the Supreme Court will gain the freedom of a court of law. With that feeling and thought, I wish you all the best of the 2015 budget to our nation and the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0485par0446	Thank you. The sixth speaker is Mr. Adem Yeşildal, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Greengrove. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0451	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Council of State budget of 2015. I salute you all. Of course, first of all, before I speak, they said that Mr. Zozani had expressed here, especially that the president's election by the people is a situation that is wanted by them and that they support themselves, and that this is a major development in the development of Turkish democracy, and I thank you for that. However, as you know, in 2007, this amendment took place with the October 21st referendum, if I remember correctly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0487par0453	September 12th, September 12th.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0454	I'd like to remind them of the decisions of their political parties at the time, and I think it would help them remember what decision they made and whether they supported that referendum. Of course, important legal and constitutional changes have been made during the period of EC PARTY governments in order for our administrative judiciary to work faster and more effectively. The measures have been taken to resolve matters more quickly and effectively. In recent times, I believe that this period, during this year of legislation, will increase the two departments of our State, which, hopefully, will relieve the workload there, will also lead to a more effective resolution of the problems. Here, of course...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0487par0456	Yeah, and you don't believe that!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0457	No, we don't do things we don't believe in, so let me be clear about that.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0487par0458	Does the judge have a proposal like that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0459	Don't worry, whatever is wrong with this country, what's wrong with justice, what's wrong with justice, what's wrong with it, the AK PARTY goes after it. In this context, of course, there's one other thing I'd like to stress here, including the prosecution, about the establishment of our judiciary, which recently again took place. I salute from here the judicial community that opposes any kind of custody, rejects any kind of custody, performs a national stance. I believe that the newly formed HSYK will bring great service to this country. At this point, see, after our esteemed Minister of Justice's immediate election of the newly formed HSYK, he had a share by the Supreme Election Board, I want to remind him. In your statement, what people wanted was a reminder at the point where there was an HSYK structure that you didn't want. He said the HSYK elections need to be redesigned. This is very meaningful, very important, and I want to remind you of that. Because we all need judgment; judgment has to be the judgment of this nation; we need to make a judgment that is not driven by certain centers, that is, that is, a judgment that we all have to make together.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0487par0461	I couldn't agree more. I couldn't agree more.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0462	And once again, I remind you of this sincere, honest, and genuine proposal of our Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0487par0463	Mr. Adem, do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0464	Of course, another thing that strikes my attention in these budget talks is that the brotherhood law between our President and our former President or the brotherhood law between our President and Mr. Prime Minister is being made here through a number of initiatives through sincerity. The harmony there, the harmony, the solidarity of these sincere people, who are shoulder to shoulder at the point of service to this nation, disturbs someone.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0488par0465	Do you know why there's solidarity?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0466	And I really want to say that we're very sorry about that, and that's exactly what our dear nation thinks. I wonder if we'll find a crack there. There are those who are anxious and anxious about the stability of this country, wondering if we can strike a blow from there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0488par0467	They're not listening to you right now.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0468	I'm telling you clearly, there's no bread for anyone, especially you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0489par0470	Look, there's no one who believes in it, and there's only one who applauded.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0471	In the words of our Prime Minister: "This brotherhood will continue the world to come, not even death," he said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0490par0472	Let them act according to the law and exercise their authority. The brotherhood is not governed by the state; the state is governed by the law, it is governed by the rule.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0473	So, instead of dealing with these issues, I invite you to deal with people's real agenda. Now, there are no buyers in society for this kind of talk, society is starting to shrug.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0490par0474	The state is governed by law, family is not ruled by brotherhood; you should know that first. What kind of understanding is that?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0475	In the statement of our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0491par0476	Is it true because the Prime Minister told you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0486par0477	As a ruling party, we should like you drowning in this kind of polemics, but we don't. I say this nation needs true opposition, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0492par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0493par0480	That's good, that's good.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0494par0481	Yeah, this state isn't run by brotherhood, it's run by law, it's run by law, it's run by law.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0495par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0496par0483	Who should I listen to, you or you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0495par0484	Mr. President, there is a real need for opposition. He said, Mr. Speaker. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0496par0485	Okay.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0497par0486	What's wrong with that, Mr. President? Don't they accept real opposition?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0496par0487	We need real opposition. He said, "Don't tease me... I mean, I don't know if we're real." Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0498par0491	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I mean, the opposition is not a real opposition right now, but are you a real power? So, let's discuss this first. In order to become real power, you have to be a law-abiding government, not a law state, a law-abiding government. You come up here, you talk, you criticize the opposition. First, criticize yourself, criticize yourself, what you do, what you don't do, what you say, what you don't say. If you were a legal authority, then there wouldn't be any problems. If you were in the right power, you wouldn't cooperate with parallel construction for 12 years, and we didn't realize it, we did it wrong. Real power is power that knows exactly who you're with, what you're doing and where you're going. You don't know that, you're criticizing the opposition. The opposition has told you this 50 times, but you didn't pay attention to it, accusing the opposition of being non-opposition today.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0499par0492	You're a great opposition, we applaud you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0498par0493	If you obey the opposition, you become the real power. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0500par0496	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0501par0497	Mr. President, both the power and the opposition are decided by the people. So it's clear who's in power and who's in opposition. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0502par0544	The seventh speaker is Mr. Ali Ercoshkun, Bolu MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0503par0548	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Prime Minister's budget. On this occasion, I salute you. Thankfully, we've held the 13th budget talks in the same ruling period since the November 3, 2002 elections. Not long ago, just 13 years ago, we all lived in a country that had sunk both economically and politically because a copy of the Constitution had been launched. How do we pay an officer's salary in a month? He thinks he's insensitive to what's going on in the world because he's lying at the IMF door trying to borrow $1 billion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0504par0551	It's stale, it's stale, say something fresh!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0503par0552	Leave the world to a paradigm of a country surrounded by seas and enemies on all sides, but most importantly, a desperate, mountain-like problems from the future. Yes, he came to power alone with an early election in this environment, the AK PARTY. A man with the same feelings, the same excitement, the same sensitivity to the world, his country, his country, and his companions came out, and the problems that had been unresolved so far began to overcome one problem after another. Our GDP is from $230 billion to $800 billion, our exports are from $30 billion to $150 billion.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0505par0554	Import...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0503par0555	Our $23 billion at the Central Bank went up over $130 billion. As we paid off all our debts to the IMF, we were able to lend money to the IMF. With the importance of domestic production, industry, we've been able to even export our national tank, our rifle, our cannon, our missile, our warship, our helicopter, our drone. Thanks to fiscal discipline, we have become one of the rare countries that meets all the criteria set by the countries of the European Union. We've taken the practice that prohibits bans, and we've put it into a life that gives people all the freedom they deserve, just because they're human. We stood firm against all custody. We've broken all the chains on the path of human rights and freedom and democracy, and we continue to break them. Of course, all of this didn't happen in a sunny place. The coup plans, the balancing settings, the dark pressures of the custody structure in all areas have been shadowed. It even reached a point where interest rates fell below 5 percent, the third airport, the third bridge, the nuclear plant agreements, and many other successful projects worldwide were suddenly burned down. All these gains obtained by Turkey were suddenly destroyed, not by the tree, but by the chain of events that became clear what the real purpose was. What is happening in Yalova these days makes it clear that it is not really a matter of trees. It wasn't enough, the coup attempt on December 17th and 25th showed us all that custody is the greatest threat to this country, no matter what institution is under its roof. After all these developments, there have been changes in the past that could have been a crisis. With local elections, our nation has shown once again that it is aware of what has happened to the enemy. Then, for the first time in our history of 3,000 years of civilization, our nation chose the head of the community, the head of the state, without any means. It has never been easy in history to show noble posture, to preserve the burning flame of truth in your heart, in your heart. Persistence requires patience, determination requires endurance, but we know one thing, the patient has triumphed. So far, as Prime Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the architect of the transformation, of our Turkey's reputation as president, continues to serve our nation, not just in our country, but in the world, creating a new breath, a new look, a new hope. I thank him for his service as Prime Minister. I wish to our Prime Minister, Dr. Ahmet Davutoglu, and his colleagues, 2023, 2053, 2071 vision and achievements in line with the goals of the new Turkey. On this occasion, I salute you and wish you the best of the 2015 budget for our country, our nation and new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0562	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0507par0563	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0564	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0565	Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0566	The budget talks are being held here, the Turkish National Assembly is being misled, and the Turkish people are being deceived.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0567	Like what?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0568	For example, the debt to the IMF has been paid, but Turkey has generally increased from $220 billion to $600 billion, including cumulative private sector debt.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0569	Mr. Tallermak, did you request a statement or a taunt?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0570	Since the House has been misled, I'd like to correct it, inform it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0571	There's no bullying, there's no bullying about you. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0509par0572	Mr. President, is there a rule that every speaker should be corrected? Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0573	But this legislature is not a council worthy to be lied to in a budget meeting.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0506par0574	It's not up to us to fix it, it's not up to you, it's not up to anyone.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0508par0575	Okay. I condemn this hypocrisy. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0510par0578	Each MP can speak his own words freely from this stand. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0511par0580	Mr. President, all of the information about where Turkey's origin came from in the speech of the speaker who was just speaking is caliphic.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0512par0581	Mr. President, for God's sake...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0510par0582	Just a minute, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0511par0583	This is all on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0510par0584	Your request...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0511par0585	All the official documents we have, documents...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0513par0586	Is your official document a fake document we have?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0511par0587	...has just revealed the fact that we live in a different Turkey than the speaker described. That's why, when we're speaking to the speakers...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0514par0588	May it apply to everyone else, that request alone.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0511par0589	I'm asking you to warn them to tell the truth and the truth.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0514par0590	That goes for everyone. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0515par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a statement here for the record. Mr. Ali told us about the horse deal and the $1 billion. Mr. Ali Babacan -- does he mean that then Minister of Economy -- and Foreign Minister Yasar Yakış Bey went to America and asked for money for $1 billion for the Iraq War, and you came to Bush's horse trade? I was worried about him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0516par0597	Mr. President, I apologize...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0517par0598	I'll make a statement, and then I'll promise you. Mr. Halaçoglu, members of parliament, has spoken with the Justice and Development Party's 7th speaker now -- five minutes each. We're listening to these conversations in about two hours. Seven speakers out of five minutes... I wrote down everything the last speaker specifically said, I wrote everything down, the whole linehead is here. He hasn't teased anyone, he hasn't insulted anyone, and yet, as with the other speakers, the group's vice presidents or other party members immediately want to say, "This is a bit..."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0518par0600	I didn't mean to pick on you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0519par0601	I asked for an explanation, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0517par0602	Or they're making a statement. Congressmans, please, let's be egalitarian. Please, let us allow the thoughts that you disagree with to be expressed on this stand. Please, please... Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0520par0605	Mr. President, the Civil Code is in charge, and we all know it. We all know when you're being bullied, when you're asking for an explanation, and you're doing it very well. Now, we've been listening to the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, the HDP Group since morning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0521par0606	We've been listening to you all morning.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0520par0607	There's a lot of cross-referencing going on in the elements, and we've listened to it with endurance. So, if we don't object, everything the opposition says is true. There's no such thing as a rule, or the opposition will correct everything the authority says. There's no such principle. The opposition talks, the power talks, and we say, "It's a ritual, you don't listen to words. " We leave it to the public.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0522par0609	Thank you. Mr. Aydın, I just said the same thing. Please, tell all the MPs...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0523par0612	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0522par0613	No, I won't promise. Mr. Tanal, please... It is our right, of course, to ask for or to make a statement because of bullying from any party, and it is our right to be born of the Civil Law. If you'll excuse me, let's not interrupt the words of fellow speakers like you're doing to me right now, and let friends who have different opinions about joining or disagreeing fulfill their wishes on this stand, including me. Please, please, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0523par0615	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet Aydın has just used the Republican People's Party's Party's name, used the National Movement Party's name instead of the People's Democratic Party.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0522par0616	Mr. Tanal, please, I won't listen. The eighth speaker is Mr. Bulent Turan, İstanbul MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0621	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTY Group in the Department of Public Inspection of the 2015 budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. It's not a joke, we're discussing the 13th budget. I wonder how little we can praise God. I think it's a very different value to take the budget to the public 13 times, with very few parties, with very little power. But the picture we see, these reviews, these approaches show that another 13 years, another 13 years, we continue to make this budget. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I don't understand why you're offended by the fact that our friends have just said that you're a different kind of opposition. There's nothing to take.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0525par0625	We're not offended.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0626	Strong opposition means strong power. We want him to shout, to call, not to shout, not to speak, but to shake us, to teach us with his knowledge, not to speak.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0526par0627	After not being a face, not being taken away from the words we said, what the hell! You think it's raining!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0628	That painting, that painting I was telling you about. If there's any opposition in this painting, what if there's no opposition in it?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0527par0629	What more documents will there be! You're gonna put the December 17th papers in the middle.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0630	For one thing, people want to be serious.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0528par0631	What more document do you want? You change judges, you take judgment, you do everything.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0632	People want the government to be serious. You've been talking all morning, I've said two sentences, you're yelling. If you don't scream, maybe you'll understand. Yelling is an expression of insufferability, a response to the lack of words. We have a lot to say, and we're just getting started. Look, there's a wise saying, they say: "Your word may be finished, but we're just getting started." At the end of the word, the hard work begins. I say that shouting is because there is no word, there is no tension, there is no fight, and I am in position.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0529par0634	Take out the one you threw in there when you were in Cyprus. If you ever found out you signed in Cyprus, where did you put it, electronically signed it?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0635	My dear friends, look, why did I want to answer a little bit of criticism about this matter? A good reflection of the human-centered perspective of the EK PARTI, which is the state's way of life. We've taken very different steps on this subject. We've brought up a lot of issues, such as the Human Rights Foundation, the Watch Board of Prisons, the intermediaries, the institution. Our problem is to reach a compromise without a fight, without a trial, without expense. For the same reasons, we have brought forward this Society of Public Control so that a bad proverb, such as that of the people, should be cooked up on the back of the neck of the town, so that there is no understanding. But as a reminder of our opposition, it's also been ten years, thirteen years, why haven't you solved it? I'd like to remind you that it's 2006. The EC PARTI government, along with a strong will, brought the Public Control Agency to Parliament, passed the law, sent it before the President at the time. The Public Control Agency -- I say again -- has no political side, has a social side, has a citizen's side, but has been sent back to the House for illegal reasons. The House met again, re-emerged the same will and sent it back to the President. This time the main opposition came to the rescue and took him to the Supreme Court. Because of such initiatives -- which we have intended since 2006 -- in 140 countries around the world, Sweden established in 1710, and even set up as an example from the Ottomans -- we have been able to establish the Society of Public Control in 2013. Once again, we've only been able to build this institution in 2013, with different initiatives that we've wanted since 2006. It's been two years. Looking at what this institution has been doing for the past two years, we've seen that its activity increases every day, its budget has been improved, its working environment has been improved, only 4,500 applications have been made last year, and more than half of these applications have been made online, and that most of them are criticisms from public employees' attitudes, their styles, so good jobs have started to be done. I hope that in time, with your support, the Society for Public Control will serve in a very good place far beyond 140 examples of the world. Once again, when we founded this institution, we knew that ombudsmanism was already a bond of public supervision in our civilization. There are many versions in the Ottomans, there are many versions in Seljuklu. Our civilization is not a distant culture against the understanding of public supervision. So I'm hoping that despite this short and new establishment, our very large-distance institution will achieve much better success in the years to come, and I hope that this new budget will be a blessing, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0639	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0531par0640	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0641	I never picked on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0642	Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0531par0643	Sir, in the speech of the speaker, the main opposition has come to the aid of the People's Auditorship Foundation and brought it to the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0524par0644	Mr. President, I can't say that either.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0645	If there's such a reality, it's not a taunt, if there isn't... You want to make a statement about this?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0532par0647	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0648	Then wait a minute, there's no teasing here, because you're going to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0532par0649	Mr. President, give me two minutes, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0533par0650	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. They went to the Supreme Court, the court cancelled.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0651	Will you please shut up, Mr. Turan?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0533par0652	That can't happen!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0653	Mr. Turan, wait a minute... you say right, Mr. Gök says wrong, on behalf of his party to make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0534par0657	Mr. President, both the Human Rights Agency and the Human Rights Agency are not the institutions brought in because the AKP wanted them to be, these are the recommendations made by the European Union and the United Nations. It is based on the ability of citizens to resolve their relationship with the administration before they go to court. This is also a matter that requires the neutrality of the state. But one of the AKP's former deputy officers, one of the former women's members of the Justice and Development Party (AKP); all of the people involved with the AKP (AKP) brought in a Public Control Agency, which now has no chords. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These are not institutions adopted by the United Nations, the European Union.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0660	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0534par0661	But look, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0662	Mr. Sky, thank you, you're out of time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0534par0663	Wait a minute, let me finish.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0664	The speaker briefed the Constitutional Court on the application of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0534par0665	Let me finish.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0666	You're out of line. And you said different things, saying it was wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0535par0668	But he wants to explain why we applied.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0669	Those appointments, those selections, the Constitutional Court...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0536par0670	It happens after the law comes out.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0671	It happened after the law was passed, Mr. Gök.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0537par0672	One moment, sir...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0673	We're all legislators here, so what are you going to fix?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0537par0674	Here's what I'm trying to get at.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0675	Did you or did you not apply for a mistrial to the Constitutional Court?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0537par0676	Sir, of course we applied.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0677	Okay, that's what the speaker said.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0537par0678	Why did we apply? The reason for this application is that it's...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0538par0679	Mr. President, what's his motive?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0680	That's not gonna happen. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0537par0681	Look, sir, it's because the Agency for Public Control is not a desirable institution, which means...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0530par0682	Mr. Sky, there is no such thing. I gave you my word, you made another statement in time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0539par0683	They're abusing your trust, Mr. President. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0540par0730	The ninth speaker is Mr. Idris Şahin, the Chandırı MP, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0541par0733	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group in the first round of the Fiscal Year Budget Bill 2015. I salute your high council. The 5th article of the Constitution, titled the main objective and duties of the state, clearly stated that the independence and integrity of the Turkish nation, the protection of the republic and democracy, and the peace and happiness of the people and society are among the main objectives and duties of the state and the task of collecting information related to them has also been given to the National Intelligence Agency. State Intelligence Services 2937 and the MIT Law have also been tasked with establishing national security intelligence on the country and nation of the Republic of Turkey, its existence, its independence, its security, its constitutional order and all its external and external elements. In an environment where foreign policy and security perception have completely changed, some changes have been made in April 2014 with Law 2937. With these changes, the MIT has been enabled to take advantage of more scientific, technological possibilities and work more effectively and efficiently. Co-ordinating with state institutions, access to information and documents, access to substructures of communication with institutions and institutions, and the ability to work according to the principle of secrecy is provided for the MSI.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0542par0737	You'll be very sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0541par0738	I have to say in particular that, unlike any opposition or rhetoric of the National Intelligence Agency, I think we all have an institution to jointly protect with its power and opposition. No matter how active the National Intelligence Agency is, we must not ignore that in this region, in our country dealing with a lot of foreign problems, our citizens can live in a much more peaceful and prosperous way. Given the nature of the structure and decisions of the national Security Council, the Council of Ministers of Foreign Security, Anti-terrorism and National Security has also been provided with operational tasks for the OSCE, along with the same amendment. Our National Intelligence Agency, which took concrete steps under this mandate, has allowed the consular staff, taken hostage at the consulate of Mosul, to return to their families without even absorption.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0542par0740	You gave me the police, the military martyr, how...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0541par0741	This is a concrete demonstration of how well the powers vested in our national intelligence agency have been transformed into the good of our country. The MIT has been enabled to work more effectively and efficiently, as it is being made in line with the needs of the age. I will never be here in the manner that compares the past years of MIT studies to the present. Because our beloved nation makes the most of its comparisons and increases its confidence in our National Intelligence Agency day by day. With the National Intelligence Agency, its power and opposition, 77 million sons of their country are an eye-opening institution and must be excluded from any conflict or conflict. Therefore, when the budget of the National Intelligence Agency is being established, the amount it needs is absolutely necessary to provide for them. We all want our members of the MIT to make the ultimate effort to ensure the peace and well-being of 77 million, even if there is only one person on the inside and outside. Therefore, at the point where modern intelligence organisations have the resources and abilities, I think we should do our part as Parliament. I say, with this feeling and thinking, that in the financial year budget of 2015, we will vote positively for the budget for the Undersecretary of MIT, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0543par0747	Thank you. The tenth speaker is Mr Murat Gökturk, Nevşehir MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0751	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the National Security Council General Secretaryship of the World Financial Budget Act of 2015. I salute your esteemed delegation and our beloved nation. If you look briefly at the history of the National Security Council and the Secretary General, the National Security Council and the Secretary General were first established on 24 April 1933 under the name of the High Defence Assembly and the People's Clerk. It was later named after the National Defence High Council and General Secretaryship in 1949, and was named after its current name in 1961, using the statements of the National Security Council and the Secretary General. The Constitution of 1982 has become a constitutional institution, along with the National Security Council, as well as the Secretary General of the National Security Council. According to the constitution's executive decree, the organization structure and tasks of the National Security Council's General Secretaryship are organised by Law 2945. The Secretary General of the National Security Council depends on the Prime Minister. Under the amendment to the 1982 Constitution, the National Security Council was included in the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and thus increased the number of elected members of the public. Again, in 2003, the change made by the EC PARTY, our party, has resulted in significant changes in both the duties and powers of the Secretary General and the organization. This framework allowed the secretary general to be appointed as general general or general, or general, from members of the Turkish Armed Forces, and to be appointed civilian secretary general.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0545par0754	There was no such obligation, there wasn't one before.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0755	I did, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0545par0756	There were civilian undersecretaries. Look...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0757	No, the National Security Council...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0546par0758	Mr. Speaker, please speak to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0759	If you have any words, after the conversation is over...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0547par0760	You don't know, wasn't the ambassador the undersecretary?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0546par0761	Mr. Congressman, don't make a fuss, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0762	Now, look, don't be insufferable.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0546par0763	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0764	Hey, don't be so insufferable when you're talking to the AK PARTY group. CHP doesn't know everything right. Is that clear?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0548par0765	You don't know, you don't know.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0766	You have to listen to us patiently. Don't be insufferable.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0548par0767	You're going up there before you know it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0768	We'll say what we want, understand?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0549par0769	Mr. Gökturk, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0770	Mr. President, about my time... Yeah, not this one! I mean, you know, the truth of everything, we don't know anything...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0550par0772	Yeah, don't talk about what you don't know!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0773	You don't know... you don't know...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0551par0774	Mr. Gökturk, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0775	The Secretary General of the National Security Board...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0552par0776	Mr. President, it's your job to get the right information transferred.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0551par0777	I know my duty. Your duty is to remain silent there as the speaker speaks. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0778	No one will ever learn your duty from you! You always do what you do.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0551par0779	Here you go, Mr. Gökturk.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0780	A Deputy Prime Minister of the National Security Board has been relieved of special authority for distribution and surveillance of the Council of Ministers' decisions concerning the National Security Council's decisions. The obligations of public and private institutions to provide information and documents to the Secretary General have been terminated. The confidentiality of the Secretary General's staff and its regulations has been lifted. In addition, the changes made by the Secretary General's Office have been removed from the Ministry of Public Relations, the National Security Political Presidency and the President of Research and Evaluation. These changes as EC PARTY are important in both democratisation and the development of human rights and freedoms. The Secretary General of the National Security Board is a structure consisting of 1 Secretary General, 2 Assistant Secretary General and 5 apartments. The Secretary General has a total of 308 staff and 232 staff. The Secretary General of the National Security Board performs really important tasks. The Office of Investigation and Evaluation, the Office of Press and Public Relations, the Office of Staff and Executive Affairs, is carrying out some really important tasks. In fact, if we didn't take our time, we'd be talking a little bit more about things, but I'd like to point out in particular that at this time, I find the attacks on our President, our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to be unfair and ugly. There will be no bread on this for anyone. We already have elections coming up; our citizen says he's going to do it with the polls, and I wish everyone good luck and good luck with the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0553par0785	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0554par0786	You ransacked the Ataturk Forest Farm, you ruined it!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0544par0787	Ataturk Forest Farm is the property of this nation.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0553par0789	Thank you. Your time is up. Mr. İsmail Aydın, the 11th speaker, is an MP for Bursa. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0555par0793	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budgetary budget bill of the year 2015 on the budget of the National Security Council's Secretary General. I hereby salute your high council. The foundation of the Secretary General of the National Security Council is the High Defence Assembly and the Public Clerk. To ensure the safety of the Republic of Turkey, the High Defence Assembly and the Umumi Clerk were formed in 1933, according to the concept of national mobilisation under the orders of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. In 1949, he was converted to the National Defence High Council and Secretary General. The Constitution of 1961 is the Secretary General of the National Security Council and the National Security Board. In this direction, the National Security Council Act 129 and the National Security Board's General Secretaryship have been established, and its mandates have been arranged. In light of developments in the world and in our region, measures against threats that directly affect the welfare of the nation and individuals have emerged as a need as well as the legacy of the Republic of Turkey. This has made it necessary for national security to be redefined, and for national security to be implemented within the co-direction of all ministries, institutions and organisations. In light of these practices, which have envisioned the protection of the state's interests in the international field, under Article 118 of the 1982 Constitution, the duties of the National Security Council have been redesigned, and the final joke of this clause is "The Office of the National Security Council and its duties are determined by law." In this way, the Secretary General of the National Security Council has become a constitutional institution, and Law No 2945, which regulates the duties and powers of the National Security Council's General Secretaryship, was adopted on November 9, 1983. National security is the highest structure of security, including domestic and external security and defence issues, and the umbrella of total security. Until 2003, the Secretary General of the National Security Council has also been acting as a deputy to the National Security Council and as an organisation responsible for providing national security in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The European Union's integration process has been radically modified by Law No. 4963 dated August 7, 2003, as well as by the National Security Council 2945, and by the National Security Council General Secretaryship Act. Under these changes, the duties and powers of the National Security Council's Secretary General have been redefined. Their mission is to conduct secretary services from the National Security Council and to carry out the duties provided by the National Security Board and by law. Under these tasks, the Secretary General of the National Security Council has been closely monitoring and reviewing the international, regional and national security environment, preparing documents, carrying out laws on mobilisation and war conditions and crisis management. The budget budget for the National Security Council's General Secretaryship in 2015 is 22m,575 thousand liras, a 12.34% increase according to the 2014 budget. The Secretary General of the National Security Council has been attending several meetings at national and international levels, including activities announced above by the grant in the Fiscal Year Budget Bill 2015, as well as against other countries, where the National Security Council accepts the national security committees of other countries who are equal, and will conduct talks with them in the coming period, and will do a lot of work abroad and abroad. The Secretary General of the National Security Council conducts the duties given by law under the principles of democracy and the rule of law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I would like to welcome all of you to our country's best interest in the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0556par0805	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. The 12th speaker, Mr. Cem Zora, is an MP for the Constabulary. Your time is five minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0557par0810	Mr. President, in accordance with the principle of secularism, the president of the Religious Affairs, in accordance with the principle of secularism, in accordance with the principle of the Constitution's Article 136/nth Amendment, he performs the duties shown in his special law, which aims to make all political opinions and national solidarity and integration, in accordance with the principle of unity and unity, respect and love of the Constitution, and in accordance with the powers vested in him, enlightening the community on matters of faith, worship and morality. The heavenly religions, primarily Islam, have the purpose of mankind's salvation and happiness, peace and glory. Basically, religion is the most ancient phenomenon that creates both inner and external peace. As we have seen from the recent study by our chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs, 99.2 percent of our society is Muslim. The activities of our community's most important cement of society's unity and unity are appreciated by our community because religious people are interested in their marriage from birth to post-mortem ceremony. The President of Religious Affairs, which is the country's oldest and most common service network, is an institution the same age as the Republic. Although a number of groups are constantly trying to draw attention to the public's services and even foreign services, they are appreciated by our nation. The existence of our presidency, which teaches and promotes the sense of Sahih Islam in society, is the main reason why violence, terrorism, anarchy and excesses in other Muslim countries do not exist in our country. Because Islam, which the presidency has presented to the people, and the language it uses to present it, is encircling and not exclusive. It is a safety sibodum for our nation to offer our religion, not by movement, not by exclusion, not by integrating, not by dispersing, not by integrating, integrating style, because everyone can live their own religion free. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are now more than 130,000 employees who were 60-65k in the years when the EC PARTY came to power. However, many of our villages still do not have a staff, and the number is approaching 6,000. During the time of our rule, the number of foreign staff in the presidency has been increased by a third compared to previous times. This shows that our presidency does not only serve across the country, but delivers the best service to our citizens and relatives who live abroad. Our religious officials, who are on the diet, carry out their duties with love and enthusiasm. They try to turn mosques into places where children, women, young people, come and socialize, and they try to provide religious services to people using technological opportunities, taking into account the needs of our age. Our presidency gives a separate importance to social, cultural religious services, not to remain silent in the face of social problems. He thinks of social problems, problems, and problems as part of religious services, so he tries to raise awareness and guide the public in all these issues, from substance abuse to bad habits, from discrimination to moral corruption, in the problems associated with hunger and women. In recent events such as the Holy Birth, Mosque Week, and Ramadan, he has been working with all his staff abroad and abroad to develop this consciousness. With the establishment of the religious TV and Radio, he tries to carry out the task of enlightening the community about religion more widely and effectively. Moreover, his works, such as the Qur'an and the Syer, are eager to deliver thousands of them to our community free of charge. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, through more than 15,000 teachers in our time of power, Koran courses are opened in every neighborhood, and religious information is available to everyone from seven to 70. One of our country's most radical institutions, the President of Religious Affairs, wishes that the budget of our presidency would be a source of good service, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0558par0820	Thank you, Mr. Hardcore. The thirteenth speaker is Mr. Hasan Karal, Rize MP, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0559par0824	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY in the 2015 budget of the President of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I salute you all with love and respect. As it is known, religion is the concept of common values that defines the identity of our nation. Religion is the most accurate and capable guide that makes sense of man's existence and gives him a map of the ultimate meaning of life and death. Religion is essential to every stage of human life from birth to death, the most fundamental element that binds us together, making us brothers, the common value and denominator of our society. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was reshaped according to the needs of the new century with Law 6002 issued by our Parliament in 2010, becoming an international institution that serves on a global scale beyond the borders of the country. They are more likely to carry out their duties, the demands and expectations required by the age on the national and international plane. Depending on that, their responsibilities have increased greatly, and their mission descriptions have changed. In this framework, the imam-hating, muezzin-kayim, preacher, mufti, has been redesigned to be more functional, and the religious volunteer consciousness has been gained instead of understanding. In this framework, 40,000 personnel have been trained in service in the past few years. With such training, the quality of the staff has been increased, and the chairman of the Ministry of Religious Affairs has become an open university. Mr. President, with the services of the President of Religious Affairs today, it has become a modeling institution all over the world, where the religious, moral and moral values of society have been maintained, and have been referred to as the most effective, competent and respected institution in all matters, which contributes to the peace and peace and justice of all mankind. The President of Religious Affairs, who sees social problems as an integral part of religious services, is trying to create awareness and awareness and awareness of issues such as hunger, poverty, disorder, strife, sectarianism, groupism. Through his services inside and outside the mosque, the child, young, women, disabled and elderly, performs activities for the awareness of our society by taking initiative and taking important social responsibility projects, including natural disasters, environmental sensitivity and the protection of family structure, and fighting drugs. The Ministry of Diet Affairs, especially in Ramadan, Kutlu Birth Weeks, with the theme set by the Mosque Week, with the events organised in the month of combat, has carried out events that contribute to our nation's unity, unity, and brotherhood, and events that have been carried out have become a great tribute to our nation's nation. The Qur'an, which is at the top of the general institutes of religious education, has restructured and made it more functional, according to the conditions of our age, in accordance with social demands. He allowed our people to study the Koran at any time. In this framework, for example, in the last few years, he has distributed about 50 million artifacts free of charge, for example, in schools, libraries, foster homes, prisons, Koran courses, abroad. Citing the common values of our nation, Alevi presented the Bektashi classics to the benefit of our people. He also began to conduct community lighting activities through Religious Radio and TV. The Ministry of Religious Affairs is not just an institution that serves our country and our nation at this point today. The presidency has become an institution from the Balkans to Central Asia, from Europe to the United States, from Japan to Haiti, from China to Canada, from Africa to Latin America and the Caribbean to almost every part of the world. From birth to death, the President of the Religious Affairs, which exists in almost every stage of life, is a source of peace, peace and security for our country and for all mankind. I hereby congratulate the dedicated staff of our President of the Religious Affairs, who served the religious life of our nation until we reach the most remote part of our country. I salute you all with respect, with love, with respect, with respect, with respect, and with respect, that the budget of 2015 is a source of good for our nation and for our country.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0560par0834	Thank you. The 14th speaker is Mr. Omar Faruk Öz, Malatya MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0561par0837	Mr. President, I have made a promise at the financial budget of 2015 on the budget of the Foundation General Directorate. I hereby salute your high council. From Seljuk to Ottoman, and to this day, our time is very rich, so to speak, at the point of foundation civilization. In particular, many works conducted by the state's hand in Seljuklu and Ottoman times are evident that many jobs in health, education, publicity, cultural areas have been carried out by foundations. When we look at this frame, there are now more than 20,000 historical monuments, and other than that, there are around 52,000 decent foundations and new foundations. The Foundation General Directorate, which is a special-funded institution, has, in turn, carried out many important tasks at the point of reviewing both historical artifacts, historical monuments, restorations, maintenance, repairs, and acquish sites, real estates. In particular, I would like to point out that before 2003, a total of 46 historical artifacts were restored in the five-year period, and by 2013, the number of historical artifacts were restored within ten years of restoration was nearly 4,000. These historical monuments consist of mosques, madrasa, inn, baths, churches, and many areas. Not only was the restoration of historical artifacts in our country completed by the General Directorate of the Foundations, a amendment in the law, restoration of many historical artifacts left behind in Macedonia, Kosovo, and Sarajevo. The income of the General Directorate of Foundations has increased 80 times. The Foundation's General Directorate, which owned 58 per cent of the Foundation's Bank, before us, unfortunately every year the bank was doing damage, and the Foundations' General Directorate was going to sell a lot of historical artifacts and raise capital. Every year, the Foundations Bank is losing money, the owner of the Foundations is selling artifacts and going to the bank to raise capital. So, what happened in our era? The same bank went into profit -- 250-300 million liras per year, even $400 million -- sent money to the General Directorate of Foundations, and with that money, a restoration of ancient artifacts was completed. Likewise, the restoration of nearly a hundred historical artifacts was completed in Malatya, my constituency. At this moment, I hope the Tin Mosque will be ready to pray in Ramadan again. In the same way, the tender for the Topstone Mosque will be held at the end of 2015, hopefully. Now, when we look at it, in 1931, the late Ataturk sends a telegram to the Prime Minister of the period, Inönυn. And he sends a directive at the point of restoration of historical artifacts in the telegram, sending a will. I find that it is incumbent upon the government of the EC to claim the will of the late Ataturk. It's very important. In fact, the reopening of mosques and mosques, which were sold in 1935, and the restoration, as well as the restoration, under the will of the late Ataturk. A man's ritual is a man's work. We all see together that it's possible to take over the profession, to be patriotic, to be nationalistic. I'm here to point out that the former General Director Yusuf Whiteıt, our current General Manager Adnan Erum, and our valued working team, and our former Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Şahin Bey, and our current Deputy Prime Minister, Bulent Arinc Bey, thank them for their sensitivity in these matters. And as a member of parliament here and as the Chief of Staff, I'd like to ask you this: we're going to be doing budget interviews here for another ten days. We don't have to talk about the same ideas, we don't have to meet about the same things, but we have to put up with each other.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0562par0847	I don't want to be lied to.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0561par0848	At this point, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, hoping that everyone will show the necessary sensitivity.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0562par0850	No one opposes the idea, don't make it all go wrong. I don't want to be lied to.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0563par0851	Thank you, Mr. Oz. The 15th speaker is Mehmet Sarı, Gaziantep MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0564par0855	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the General Directorate of the Foundations of 2015. I salute the High Council. The best of the people is the one that helps people. From Central Asia, where we guide the sheriff, to the Atlantic Ocean, mosques, caravansarays, madres, technos, bridges, roads, hospitals, factories, the works that continue to amaze us, as they did in the past. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our General Directorate of the Foundation today has taken on a difficult task to protect, protect, keep, and transport to future generations. In this scope, 52,000 Seljukli and Ottoman foundations, 4,863 new foundations, 276 joint foundations, 166 parish foundations, are being established, disbanded and audited. We've also shown our successful work in every field during the AK PARTY in foundation and foundation. Between 2003 and 14 years, about $1 billion has been spent on the restoration of 4,000 foundations across the country, allowing them to be launched. In addition, the General Directorate of the Foundations has claimed the works of our economies outside our country, and has launched efforts to identify the inventory of the works in Cyprus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Bulgaria and Yemen, projecting and repair the foundation cultural assets. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the General Directorate of the Foundations is helping people in need while working on resuscitation of artifacts in our country and abroad. To this end, the distribution of food to 20,215 needy families in order to meet the conditions of charity in the foundations continues, the salary of 5,000 needy people and orphans in need, the scholarship aid for 15,000 students, and the distribution of hot food in the homes. As a long-term rental model for 216 immovable repairs, tourism, education, health, social, cultural and commercial facilities have been made into an inventory of 4,372 mobile Foundations, which is considered by construction methods for 565 non-results. In order to preserve his civilization, the Foundation has taken 10 million pages of historical document images into digital media with the Foundation Archive Management System Project, offering them to the services of academics and researchers. Over the years, thousands of carpets, rugs, hat plates, cave covers, handwritten Korans, and renovations have begun displaying new foundations in museums. In Istanbul, the University of Bezmilalem Foundation was founded to carry out the goals of the foundations of the foundation, which are conditioned on their foundation; the University of Bezmilalem Foundation was founded to develop restorations of the future, reforms and contrasts, master of line art and experts. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have done well in Gaziantep district of our General Directorate of Foundations, and our Gaziantep Regional Directorate has launched a total of $1,240,000 in project construction work over the past decade, 43 out of restoration studies, and 4 of which are currently under way for 20 million, 153 thousand dollars; and 11 million and 88,000 dollars in construction. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to end my words with the following lines of Yunus Emre. The owner of the estate, the owner of the property / the first owner of this? / It's a lie, it's a lie / There's a lie / While wishing for the well-being of the 2015 budget, I bless and thank you for the dedication of our economies, the members of the General Directorate of the Foundation and the members of the Gaziantep Foundation, who are trying to protect, protect, and support our foundation, and bring it back to future generations, I salute your high delegation, especially our EC PARTY governments, lawmakers, and members of the General Directorate of the Foundation of the Foundations, and the Gaziantep Foundations.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0565par0869	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Mr Mehmet Kerim Yıldız, the last speaker of the Justice and Development Party Group. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0566par0873	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the Human Rights Agency budget of 2015. On this occasion, I salute you all. The Day of Human Rights was December 10th. Yes, just yesterday we celebrated a World Human Rights Day in which human tragedies took place in our country, where persecution went unpunished, and the cries of the oppressed and the victims were ignored. Human rights is no longer an internal issue in the United Nations, with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948, and has become the common goal of mankind as an international universal right. All people on earth have the right to live equally, free and honorable because of the existence of men, regardless of religion, language, race, color, gender, or any other reason. Human rights is the common value of all human beings, the common denominator of all civilized countries. To treat people as free, equal individuals without any distinction is the essence of human rights and the essential element of democracy. Throughout 12 years of EC PARTY power, we've done extensive reforms to ensure that our people can take full advantage of all rights and freedoms so that they can achieve the level they deserve. We quickly implemented the legal provisions needed to fully reflect these reforms and to ensure its permanence. Through the legal and legal regulations of our governments, significant progress has been made in ensuring integration between the state and the nation, guaranteeing freedom of faith and thought. In this case, Turkey's Human Rights Association was founded on June 21, 2012. Turkey's Human Rights Institution, established to work on the protection and development of human rights, is a private and budgetary institution with a public corporate personality, administrative and financial autonomy. The institution was created by the intention of developing human rights standards in our country, by institutionalization in the field of human rights and by the will of having a human rights organization in line with the principles of the United Nations known as the principles of Paris. The institution is tasked with working to protect and improve human rights rights, to study and investigate human rights violations, to investigate and investigate human rights violations, to follow legislation and practice, to carry out information, awareness and education activities, to fight torture and abuse, to visit the necessary places, as well as to provide advice, advice, and advice to interested people, institutions and organisations. Regarding its duties and powers, the Turkish Parliament is obliged to inform the Commission on Human Rights at least once a year. Mr. President, valuable deputies, we have some suggestions for the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey. They are: the institution needs to be more active and more visible, concerned with human rights violations, making attempts to resolve all human rights violations within the country, expressing human rights violations in the world on every international platform, bringing the United Nations system's aging antidemocratic structure and injustice to the agenda, the existence of the Human Rights Institution, Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Parliament, in strict dialogue and consultation with the Human Rights Review Commission, representing the Parliament. In time, we hope that the institution will contribute substantially to the efforts of our country to improve human rights standards. With the wish of reaching a world where equality, rights and freedoms are accepted for all, I salute Human Rights and Democracy Week, all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0882	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the merger...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0568par0884	Mr. President, before taking a break from the merger, Mr. Adem Greendal spoke on behalf of the AK PARTI Group just at the beginning of his speech, both considered my words about the election of the presidency by the people, as well as how our group took a position in the Parliament in 2007, which led me to my curiosity as to what kind of attitude our group took when the amendment was discussed, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0885	One minute to explain your position, because I'm gonna take a break.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0568par0886	Mr. President, this is teasing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0569par0887	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0888	I'll explain. He said, "He asked me a question, I'll explain."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0569par0889	No, no. About the election of the President of the People's Democratic Party, he taunted our party by asking the color of the votes of the political parties that he had previously been a successor to, and our friend will answer.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0890	Where's the sarcasm in that question, Mr. Baluken? You're welcome...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0569par0891	He gave me the wrong information.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0570par0892	He gave me false information.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0893	He asked the question. You say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0569par0894	He gave false information to the General Assembly about the vote our party used.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0571par0895	Would you like me to read your words right away?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0896	Please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0571par0897	I would like to remind them of the decisions of the political parties at that time, which I think would help them to remember what decision they had made and whether they had supported that referendum.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0898	Yeah, there's no bullying here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0572par0899	Yeah, yeah. What do you mean, no?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0900	No, there's no teasing. If you want an explanation, I'll give you my word on your position for a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0572par0901	Mr. President, here...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0902	Please, no... look, I'm gonna take a break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0572par0903	You can't take a break. We're talking about something right now.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0904	Can I have a minute, please? There's no teasing here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0573par0905	You'll come back later, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0906	But I'd like to remember. He says.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0574par0907	No, he gave our vote color to both the public and the General Assembly wrongly.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0573par0908	Mr. President, if you take a break, you'll be back.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0909	How can I listen to either of you at the same time? Look, I'd like to remind you. He says, "I'd like to remember."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0573par0910	So you refused during that period. He means.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0567par0911	It's a fact.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0575par0912	I mean, does it hurt to remember them?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0576par0913	It's a lie.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0575par0914	It's not a lie at all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0576par0915	Misinformation, yes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0575par0916	Okay?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0576par0917	Here, he'll explain.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0575par0918	That's where he explains it, it's not teasing. He says, "Let him explain, not teasing."
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0576par0919	Why would he explain it there? He'll explain it from the stand.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0577par0920	Mr. President, there's obviously some bullying that puts our party under suspicion, so we'd like our friend to answer from the podium.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0578par0921	Here are the voting colors, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0579par0922	What's the report? May I have a look, Mr. Zozani?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0580par0923	Mr. President, take a break, take a look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0578par0924	Mr. President, look at the notes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0579par0925	Well, then, if he's got notes, I'll take a break, look at the report, and I'll give you my word on that, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0581par0926	What do you mean, Elitaş runs the coven?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0582par0927	Don't be so impressed.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0583par0928	Here you go, Mr. President, look.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit04spe0584par0929	Okay, I promise. Mr. Zozani, I promise you. I'll read the report and promise later. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0584par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 26th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now we come to the speech section on behalf of himself. On the first round, Elazığ MP Zülfü Demirbağ will speak in favour of him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0585par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0584par0008	Mr. Zozani, I'll give you my word after the speech. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0586par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Financial Year of 2015 Budget Bill. At the beginning of my speech, I salute your grand delegation and our nation of Necip. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to briefly express some of the major investments in 12 years at the beginning of my speech. The number of divided roads rose from 6,000 kilometers to 23,000 kilometers, from 25 to 53. The number of passengers increased from 34 million to 150 million. The Bolu Tunnel, which has not been completed for years and was thought to be a cold storage facility for potatoes, has been put into service. Ankara-Konya, Ankara-Eskişehir-İstanbul speed train lines have been launched. Marmaray, a project of the century, has been launched, the Eurasian Tunnel will be launched. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk a little bit about the White Palace as well as large investments and services. The price of the Presidential Palace is 1,3 quadrillion, room number 1,150. Especially if you look at the countries that criticize us at this point: the money for the Pentagon is $1.3 billion, and the money for the House of Parliament, which is one of the dozens of palaces in England, is 5 billion euros. The money spent on the German intelligence building -- not the government building, not the palace -- is 1.33 billion euros; it's three times ours. Looking at these figures, it will be understood what the amount spent on the Presidential Palace, which is the representative office of the Republic of Turkey, which has two thousand years of state tradition, the Seljuklu, Ottoman and modern architecture, and will host hundreds of other states such as the Pope, Putin and Cameron within ten days. In 1937, our 1st President, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, ordered that Edward be taken off one of the best yachts in the world, when he saw the light suit of Edward on the yacht of Ertugrul as he was traveling with King Edward seventy-seven years ago. After that, the Savarona yacht, which had previously been ordered to Germany by the United States, returned from customs due to high taxes, was purchased and brought to Turkey. In 1937, for 20 million dollars, the Savarona yacht was taken from each bedroom in the 50 square - square - square - square - foot suite, which is 16 metres longer than a football field - 136 meters [136 m] long, one super luxury, and Ataturk died a month and a half later. Why did Gazi Mustafa Kemal, a great statesman with a vast horizon, give this yacht to the Republic of Turkey at a time when national income was less than $100 per person? The statesmen of this country, which has a 2,000-year-old state tradition, took it so that it would not be humiliated or embarrassed by ordinary statesmen, and entrusted it to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0587par0017	What are you defending, looking for a reason for an illegal palace?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0586par0018	In view of today's opposition mentality and perspective, a fishing boat could well have been served that day instead of Sabarona.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0588par0019	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0589par0020	What's the $10,000 toilet seat for? A $10,000 toilet seat for what?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0586par0021	Opposingly, with this opposing mind. Let's look at the First Assembly, the First Assembly, the Third Assembly; the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the former courthouse buildings and the new courthouse palaces, and similar institutions, the representation of the former and new buildings will be seen what the Presidential Palace means to the growing, developing, developing, and developing Great Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0589par0023	What's a 10 grand toilet bowl, toilet?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0590par0024	Good for you, good for you!
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0586par0025	As I finish, I wish you and the nation of Necip, with the best of our budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0591par0027	Thank you. Congressmans, now, on behalf of the government...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0592par0029	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0593par0030	Mr. President, we wanted a word.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0591par0031	I forgot again. Excuse me, Mr. Zozani. I looked at the records. Here, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0594par0035	Thank you. Mr. President, you're starting time before we're out of line.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0591par0037	No, we didn't.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0594par0038	I'm careful, yes, the clock starts here before I even get there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0591par0039	Wait, let's take it back again. Two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0594par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, at the beginning of his speech, Mr. Adem Yeşildal thanks me for my assessment of the presidential election, and then translates his thanks to irony, saying that our party did not support the direct election of the presidency at that time. Do you know what my favorite part of this House is or what I like about it? Even if you cough, it's being recorded, so even if you cough in this House, it's being recorded, it's got a good archive. If he looked at the Assembly's records before making these statements, he would look at what kind of attitude he had, what attitude he had, and then he would come here and evaluate it. We, yes, believe in democracy directly, that the president should be elected by the people in the need to run the principle of democracy directly. We say, "Yes." We say, "Yes." Because that's what happened in the referendum. Don't confuse the 2007 and 2010 referendum, we're talking about two separate issues, 2010 is a separate phase. 2007 is a separate phase when the President is elected by the people and his parliamentary mandate is reduced from five to four years, spoken in a separate time period, and the 2010 referendum is discussed in a separate time period, so don't mix it up. So I'd like to say that you don't understand the irony. It's not appropriate for him to turn his thank you into irony after thanking him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0595par0048	Thank you, too. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 [[Continue]] 1) The Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) The Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Constitutional Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Constitutional Court Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS [[Continue]] 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 Congressmans, on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will now speak. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 80 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0099	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all, and I bid you good evening. It's the first round of our budget talks, and I wish you well, and I wish you well. Today the first round of talks will be over in a moment, so I've taken a turn to speak on behalf of the government. For once, it's two laps in one budget, and I'm not used to it. The plan was made as two tours of the Budget and Budget Commission; institutions that had no direct links to the prime minister were made in one round, and institutions that were in another round. Maybe it's better that way, but our Speakership, no doubt, has made a decision with the party groups' participation. With this Council of Counsellor's decision, today's first round of talks has been presented to all institutions in one place. Therefore, it is not possible for me to represent them directly, including the presidency, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor's Office and some other institutions, and I will not have to talk about them much if I can do it right. I'd like to point that out first. Besides, I took notes and followed them during the interviews, and I wasn't only here in the first round, I had another assignment, but I also got our friends talking from the transcripts. I thank all the speakers. They haven't criticised our institutions very much, and one of the reasons is that there may be talks on the entire budget that was made yesterday, and the presidents have spoken, and they have made serious criticism of important issues, and today's talks are a little bit more official. I looked at the AK PARTY group, 16 people, five minutes each, and the other groups gave me a little more time. If I've entered Parliament in 1995 or something, yes, December 24, 1995 -- I know that it takes about a month and a half -- the General Assembly talks, then we've narrowed them down to 13 days, and in the future, maybe the General Assembly will just be a ceremony, and all negotiations will be held, and it might benefit him. Of course, I don't intend to talk about all 80 minutes, but the negotiations have been going on since 11:00 in the morning. And the Beşiktaş-Tottenham match started at this time. I'm a good Beşiktaş, I'd like to watch this game in person tonight. First, Beşiktas has been doing well lately, and second, if he defeats Tottenham, he will have inflicted the same pain on Arsenal. So Beşiktaş...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0597par0102	Let's hope for success.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0103	Sure.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0598par0104	Have you looked at the bleachers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0105	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0598par0106	Did you check the bleachers? The bleachers are empty because of that PASSOLIG.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0107	I didn't get a chance to look, so I came straight here, so if you want to go out and get us some news from time to time.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0598par0108	We've come to listen to you in private.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0109	Separately, I'm not talking about it, but I wish Besiktaş would fight like a national team tonight.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0599par0110	We wish you success.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0111	I wish you all the best, I hope we get some good news, and if our meeting ends before the game is over, maybe we'll be able to watch them last. Like our President, I wish our Beşiktas well, and I hope he comes to a conclusion that will not embarrass us.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0600par0112	Mr. President, as a Galatasaray, I'd like to speak with you in a moment.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0113	My dear friends, on several institutions...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0601par0114	Mr. Secretary, please... We all wish you well, I am a Fenerbahçe, but we wish Beşiktaş well.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0116	Of course, I know Mr. Nevzat is very kind, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0601par0117	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0118	That's a good thing, so they ask me, whichever team we're playing with out there, whichever team we're playing with, I'm gonna look at as a national team, take off my jersey, I'm gonna be there for him. Our coven used to have a tradition. In the time of my Parliamentary presidency, a little later, when we went abroad, we would always act as a national team if there were foreigners in the international commissions, so there would be no division of power-migration, and one of us would make a speech of his own, but to confirm what one of us would say, again, I hope, I don't know. Dear friends, since some of our friends have criticisms or wishes, if you'll allow me to explain to you some of our institutions, then I'll let you know at the end of the story that someone is waiting for. I couldn't listen to Mr. Ozkes Hodja and Mustafa Erdem Bey. I read from the transcripts. They criticised him for having done an important task and for expressing his shortcomings. My friends know that the Plan and Budget Commission has us at 01 a.m. We had more questions, more answers, and a good evening - some of the things I was asked and answered there today - some are new. So if you'll excuse me, I'd like to contact them briefly. No doubt, whether we are critical of the President of Religious Affairs or not, we are almost equal to the Republic. Their mission is clear. Lately, I think it's been about four or five years, with a new agency law, he's got a new power. He's in charge of a lot of services. These include religious services, educational services, publishing services, foreign services, staff services, pilgrimage and umre services, strategy development services. Very briefly, as of September 2014, there are 140,854 staff, 1,401 contract positions. All of this, with this staff width and so on, is a budget grant of over five quadrillion. I've taken some notes regarding Mr. Ozkes and some of our friends' questions that I haven't answered before. Before me, Mr. Erdem claimed that the charity funds the Foundation of Turkey has collected in campaigns were kept in unemployable accounts and not used to suit its purpose. Turkey's Religious Foundation is a private legal figure founded with the Civil Law. The Foundations are subject to inspection and inspection of the General Directorate. We all know that very well. He collects his help in accordance with Article 13 of the Convention on the Collective and the Principles of Help. For this purpose, by regulations, it is deposited into bank accounts. In bank accounts, aid funds are spent along with their moisture for the campaign purposes. Çanakkale Bayramic district has a question about the participation of an imam clerk in ISIS. Unfortunately, it's real. The officer was dismissed as of June 25, 2014, after this was revealed. I don't know if there's a little bit of it, maybe there's some other place, but it's remarkable that such an imam character would go out to join an army of killers like this. I hope we can all work together to get ahead of this. The protocol table has been established at the mosque in Kayseri Talas district. The investigation has not yet been concluded on the charge. What has been done about the posters posted at the Skopjedar Cicekçi Mosque and Karacaahmet Cemetery by the district of Skopje? I've answered that question, but I'll say it again, based on its importance, Mr. Ozkes insisted that after December 17th, the laws of bribery and corruption were not read. With the day of the Plan Budget Commission, I paid for it with its history. Let me briefly repeat: In the last four years, a total of 534 Hutbe in the last four years -- 164 in 2011; 177 in 2012; 121 in the first six months of 2013; 72 in the last four years -- by our politics in matters such as public rights; justice, integrity, integrity, trust, bribery, corruption; and corruption. Again, I do not mention the 39 thousand in 2012, and the 29,000 in 2014 -- a total of 90,167 in three years by our ministers, including 20,890 in 2012, 39 in 2013, and 29,000 in 2014. The Istanbul Muftülik website also claims to have been read on Friday (December 20, 2013) as a bribe, but after an operation launched on December 17, 2013, the law on understanding the Qur'an was replaced by a replacement. That claim is not true.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0602par0130	That's right, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0131	As a matter of fact, if you look at the Istanbul muftu's website, the border on bribery and corruption will not be seen on December 20, 2013, but on Friday, December 13, 2013 -- four days before the operation. The day of December 20th was read on its own day, without any change, in which the Qur'an was read, understood, and lived. In the middle of winter, Mr. Erdem has criticised rotation procedures imposed by the regimen and the President of the Religious Affairs. Our regulations for this have been brought to me in matter. The rotations of mosque officials are not performed during the winter months, but during the June-age period, as stated in the relevant legislation. The chief, the manager, and the rotation and relocation of staff in the county mufti titles are also conducted from 1 June to 31 July. They also issued regulations published in the official newspaper. I wondered how many years it would take to take a rotation. In the same mosque, it is written in the regulation that mosque officials who have completed twenty-five years and who have completed eight years must be replaced in some way. Mustafa Erdem also used the following statements in his press statement on the agenda published on 25 March 2014 on the website of our friend, about his claim that he had not been answered and that he had used the statement for the Prime Minister. There are four paragraphs, such as that. I mean, we can't honestly say that you're indifferent to it. It's been given an exposé. Mr. Ozkes Hoxha: The Kutlu Birth Week logo used in 2013 resembles ISIS. We don't use a constant logo every year. The 2013 logo, our Prophet, has a photo of the seal known to belong to the Prophet. In 2014, we also have a logo on religion and sincerity. I didn't see it in any of my friends' questions, but there's a note of information about the electrical costs of the temples. It was decided that the annual costs of mosques, mosques, churches, synagogues, and synagogue's electric energy should be paid for the budget of Religious Affairs. The consumption and investment costs for border illumination for security purposes are covered by the budget of the Ministry of Interior and the provision for illumination of the meetings and the budget for the Ministry of Religious Affairs presidency, published in the Official Newspaper of 30/3/2013. The latest information is: for 2014, the illumination costs of the places of worship are 48 million and 361,000 Turkish liras used as of today (December 11th) when the additional funding was 70 million. As for my notes on the foundations, my dear friends, today the management of foundations in Turkey is a subject that is essentially a matter of important propositions at the point where it will grow, because it is an institution most of the time worthy of your appreciation, praised and concerned for all of us. As you know, our General Directorate of Foundations today is a measure of executive and tester of 52 thousand mazbut foundations, 271 multiple rights foundations, 4,863 new foundations, 166 parish foundations. There is freedom for those who want to set up a foundation. It's in the law. The purpose of the foundation is registered by the original court of law, registered to the centre, and then it starts working on its own. Sometimes routine inspections are sometimes audited over complaints. Although there have been some very serious reports of our foundations so far, I'd say that this is a very small point in 52 thousand and depending on that, that our foundations are working well, and they're working well. When we say "new foundation," I mean the foundation that's from the past -- which is now under the control of the General Directorate of Foundations -- not as well as the exact foundations run by their parents, their children -- but that's the foundation that you, us, our friends, have established or supported. We could call it about 5,000. I think the bigger the number, the better. Between our 2003-2014, it's always been appreciated that the project and repairs of 4,000 artifacts have been completed. For these -- our budget is a private budget -- you know -- there's been about three quadrillion expenses. That's 70,000 jobs, and we're trying to make them part of a plan in every city of our country, every town, where we consider cultural and historical assets as a foundation. At the same time, we didn't lock it inside Turkey's borders. In all the countries in ancient Ottoman geography that have historical and relative relations with us, we also do restorations. From Yemen to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to all Balkan countries, the last one was in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus -- Mr. Sky, who represented his party. This was the anniversary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On that day, we signed a protocol, even a contract with Mr. Prime Minister, that will come to Parliament -- about the restoration of the foundations by the General Directorate of Turkey's Foundations, about getting them up, we'll pay for them, we'll do their projects. At first, we will raise them, hopefully, as an institution of Turkey, whether they are Sultan or still the Sultan of Hazreti Omar mosque, or cultural and historical beings in the center of the city, which is part of us in Northern Cyprus. Dear friends, when Mr. Nazlıaka came to talk about the foundations, he spoke some words about TORGEV. I can safely say that we're comfortable with that. From a point of view, I'm guessing about 20 motions have come to me. I've answered all these motions. I've informed all my friends in your midst how many of us have received the balance sheet, the grants, and the real estate, if they have any real estate. So there's no unanswered question. It's considered in new foundations, TRUGEV. It was founded in 1996. Then there were changes in his administration. Today, we believe, it works for its purposes. We are not in a position to ask you where you're getting help, because with the changes we've made in our Law of Foundations, the foundations can also accept donations from abroad. This is also true of the 4,863 new foundations that I just told you about, and the same is true of the congregation foundation, and the same is true of the law and the right foundation. When someone abroad gave a certain amount of money, Turkey came to its agenda, and I was the first to explain its amount, as a minister in charge of the foundations. I'm in favor of transparency. Whatever its name is, it's beyond charging a foundation with prejudicial, prejudice, and if there's any law against it, there's a law against it, there's an audit, and then we can think about the direction of the court. When I say the direction of the court, I mean that there are some foundations in the primary court of law that we now demand that their executives be dismissed. This is also meant to refer to...................................................................................... After that, if the court agrees to this, what will be done is appointed trustees, and the foundation will be re-managed. Since I don't give out their names, I don't talk about them, I define them as the other one. Mr. Altan Tan mentioned an inclusion foundation in Diyarbakır about the foundations -- I don't think it's him -- but it's important -- he didn't give his name. It's the right thing to do. I mean, speaking here with the name of a foundation might lead to different perceptions in public. What he says is that there are also individual foundations, family trusts, which are a great majority of the foundations, even the Padişah foundation. That's what the experts know. I'll give you an example from Diyarbakır: 5 million square metres of family foundation has been developed. 3 million square metres, 3,000 acres, all from 20 per cent to 25 per cent family, to the managers and contractors in cooperation with the state. Maybe I wouldn't have to say anything if he hadn't told me to cooperate with the state, but I took it personally, so I'll answer. First of all, I want to tell you in a few sentences, whether a high estate of a foundation in Diyarbakir has been co-operated with the state or through local institutions, for example, whether it has become this way through them: it has taken hundreds of millions of dollars from the angle and transferred it out, and it needs to be blocked. Yes, let's block it. So what's the real situation? Yes, there is such a foundation in Diyarbakir. The foundation has been run by a certain administrator since 1987. Since we've processed it, I'll give it to Altan Bey if I have to, and I don't think it's right for him to talk here, to report here -- the foundation has 3,000 acres of land in the district of Diyarbakır. For 700 acres of this land, the foundation has been authorized to sell by the House of Foundations and by court order. Sales yielded 170 million revenues to the foundation and bought new real estate from various parts of the country. Again, for 1,400 acres, the Council of Foundations and the court have decided that they will consider their move in many ways. The cost of multiples is between 30 and 35 per cent. Construction is under way, and when it is completed, there will be about 2,000 apartments and 60,000 square metres of shops left to the foundation. It has been determined that there is no illegal procedure in the study of our General Directorate inspectors on charges of irregularity in both the land sales and the assessment of property in the area. This has also been reviewed by the Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and the prosecution has ruled that there is no surveillance. We can call his estate "Ooo. " He'll own so many apartments, we can say, wow, but that's the case. Now, in a way, I'm going to accept this speech by accepting a tip from Mr. Altan Tan. I'm going to reassign the inspector and ask him to review what's going on and what's going on with these allegations. In his speech, Mr. Nazlıaka stated that the foundations were occupied, that the invaders were then made tenants, that the subsidiaries were signed with the invaders without being tendered. It's not possible to give the intruders the title of tenant or sign a contract directly, it's not true, but let's not forget there was a law in 2011, 6111. With this law, a lease agreement was allowed to be signed, including the property of the treasure, if there are invaders, including the foundations. While others took advantage of the law, so did our General Directorate of the Foundation. It's a perfectly legal procedure. My dear friends, I have received notes on the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey from the speech of Mr. Mahmut Tanal. You know, by 2012, there was no Human Rights Agency, there was no Human Rights President. In 2012, we passed a law and established a human rights institution that was elected members. Of course, I can't say that it's completely free, free, autonomous; it's a Human Rights Institution in its existing samples, half official and half special. These are the Human Rights Council, elected by the President, elected by the bar, elected by the NGO, and have members elected by the Prime Minister. These members serve at a certain time, and I think this institution, founded in 2012, is also doing important activities. Of course, without consulting me, Mr. Tanal, our bureaucratic friend has been contacted, but as a minister of responsibility, I'd like to tell him a little bit about the work he's doing at the moment, the two-year institution has been assigned to him in accordance with the duties and powers given to him by the Antalya L-type Closed Correctional Institution. Following the Human Rights Association's application, the Antalya L Type Closed Execution Agency was visited on July 15, 2013 to review some allegations of human rights violations that have been reported to the press. Again, after applying for the Human Rights Association's Sanlıurfa branch, the board conducted investigations in Şanlıurfa Siverek district on September 1, 2013 to investigate the alleged mass graves of missing persons. As a result of the study and research, the report was published on the website of the institution. The World Human Rights Day event on December 10th... talks about workshops. The subject of the study: the subject of arrest and obligation, hate speech and freedom of speech, right to freedom of person and security. In Sincan Youth and Children's Prison, the resen was examined after the alleged abuse of children. In this case, Sincan Prison was visited on 22 January 2014, where the report was filed and published. The Metris type R Prison was visited on January 17, 2014, in order to determine the problems of patient prisoners and inmates in access to health care and so on. The penal execution institution, where treatment for patients and prisoners, was also visited on February 19, 2014. The woman's Human Rights Act was built on March 6, 2014. The visit to the Istanbul Kumkapı Repatriation Centre... was visited on May 2, 2014 by institution experts, academics and representatives of relevant NGOs to investigate refugee rights. The workshop on the concept of meeting and demonstration march and democratic society order was held on 22 May 2014. The report on the access of prisoners and prisoners to health care was filed on 12 June 2014. The consultations... the Human Rights Agency, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Joint Workers. A review of the Metris Prison and some of the relevant investigations, reports have been presented and published. Mr. Tanal has asked the International Co-ordination Committee of the Institutions of Human Rights -- known as the ICC -- why hasn't he applied for or found an accordion? It's a very good question. We're still preparing to apply for it. Because we have submitted to our Prime Minister the bill, which has been passed to the United Nations Convention Against Torture under the supplemental Elders Protocol --OPCAT -- in order to ensure that our institution's prevention mechanism is carried out effectively, and I will present it to Parliament on Monday, personally. Hopefully, with your support, we're predicting an 11-point amendment to the Human Rights Institution's law, re-recognising its functions, its powers, and its responsibilities. Thank you in advance for your support. My dear friends, there's nothing I can tell you about other institutions for the time being. My dear friend Nevzat Pakdil Bey spoke on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I also worked with Mr. Pakdil. I also worked with the late Ali Dinçer Bey. I remember him with mercy. I also worked with Yilmaz Azmet Bey. I also worked with Ahmet Küçük Bey. Our time was a beautiful time, we worked in harmony and harmony, and we did a lot for our coven. Now, Mr. Halaçoglu had a reaction to what he was talking about, and I talked to him later, and it's not the wrong thing, but we've already expressed our opinion on it. ▪ What was the point of saying that here? Guys, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a self-criticism, which I'm more entitled to than anyone else. You're a congressman, and we're a congressman. God has given us this glorious spot, not everyone. Sometimes he's chosen, and when he comes to take an oath, his car falls down, he loses his life, and we have friends like that. Sometimes he gets nominated, he doesn't get elected. Sometimes he can't even run. I mean, our nation appreciated you, brought us here, floating out of a place with so many candidates. After we've finished our duties here, you and I, we're all MPs, that's the way we are in the eyes of the nation. It's like this, even if it's a period, even if it's five terms like me. Even if he does a three-day ministry, a person's name is the Minister after he's gone, and if he's the head of parliament, then he's the president, so the nation appreciates us by that title or by that status, or so we're called. So we should be pleased, but there are burdens that this speech has imposed on us, there are obligations, and we have to fulfill them. Our relationship with your selection continues, and they may still be asking you for some things. Weddings happen, invitations happen, openings happen, groundbreakings happen, we may have to go here, we may have to go abroad, we may have to take advantage of social facilities. Now, as chairman of Mr. Pakdil's Association of Parliamentaries of Turkey, before that, Mr. Hasan Korkmazcan, there is one thing that others had not thought of and put into practice before him, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words, not on the Parliamentary budget, but as your friend, whose term is coming to an end. The only group of politicians who put a bullet in your foot are the politicians. That's so sad. Everyone has a bodyguard -- I don't mean as bodyguards -- but the MPs are vulnerable, and the congressman's biggest opponent is the MP again. It's a strange thing, we love each other, but we don't take care of each other. The politician must take care of the politician. When everyone's looking out for each other, protecting each other, protecting each other, we're in some things that will destroy or ignore or shrink each other. What do I mean? In 1995, I became a deputy, a gumball in everyone's mouth: the immunity of a member of the parliament, the home of a member of the parliament, the salary of the minister. We go to Anatolia, they say: "You have a car under you, you eat free, you stay in a private villa." We're paying when we eat, and we've got the Speaker every day. I mean, 8,000 people eat here on a day, but if you look at the newspapers, they've lost 400 tons of meat in a month. It's called, as if we've eaten them all. Don't write like that. During my time, there were 5,000 people on average. Sometimes 13,000 people enter this House, sometimes 8,000 people enter it, sometimes 5,000 people enter it; these are our citizens, all of us take them with us. God help the Southeast MPs, it's the Istanbul MPs who are the easiest, not too many voters who come to them, 20 people come to them. They eat, they put them to bed, they treat the patients, they pay for the road, they buy plane tickets. I know from the mansions, I had these on both sides, the lady of the house was about to commit suicide. 20 guests every night, 10 of them, no place to sleep. We've been through this. Our salary isn't that big, our quarters aren't that big. Our immunity, we talk about it a lot amongst ourselves, but there are exceptions. Now, in this case, for example, we left the residences in January 2003. So I looked at it, so it's a business that always hurts. 200 people work, about 2 trillion a year, and we've got expenses from our housing. So the AK PARTY group has also made a decision. So we made a decision at the Presidential Court -- Mr. Faithful knows it's from then on -- that we're going to get out of the halls. Well, we're out of the dorms, so where are these deputies going to go? For example, I became Speaker. You'll go to the official residence. They said. I said, I'm not going to the official residence. God bless you, my wife warned me. How can you go to an apartment where the MPs rent? He told me. I said I wouldn't, and I said I won't. We went into the co-op in 1996, and they said it was almost over in 2002, so I finished it, and I went in. But our MPs were devastated. I mean, if he had a house, he went home, and if he didn't have a house, he went to rent or stayed in the guesthouses. So I said, there's a company called TOKI, builds a military building, builds a national education building, builds a building for the Ministry of Health, and the TOKI can do it for us. He can sell it to us with his money. How beautiful. They said. I've announced it. I called it in, but I've been through a lot. These are the ones who came out of the dwelling at the time; look, now they're building a house for themselves. What if the house to be built is to be built in five years in installments and ten in installments? Don't do it, don't do it. But we're afraid of the press, and we're afraid of not loving; love is one thing, fear is another. One thing's true, but when the papers do, we get goose bumps, we go right to them. I'm not in the business, so write my name down. I'm making you live here, bro. I'm making you do it with money. Look, he did it, he did it for national education, he did it there, he did it here. There have been 355 applications, 351 have withdrawn its application. I am afraid." he said. Oh, yeah? That's when I said I'd have the officers do it. I've built 3,500 dwellings for the people of Parliament, and I don't know if they have any of our girls, but when you get there, I've built the best part of Ankara for our officers, for our employees. After that, the mind began to think. The president who came after me, of course, did not have the same reaction when he did not carry the name Bulent Arinc, and he said, "Shall I build you a building in Yenimahalle?" Make me do it." They said. Some of us bought dwellings in Yenimahalle. And he said, "Shall I have it done to the man who came after him?" Make me do it." They said. Now there are residences in Edek. Lawmakers. Why did you say no when you said yes to them? What was wrong, what was right? TOKI built homes for lawmakers, friends, and she made them beautiful, and Yenimahalle was a bit expensive, but on condition, they were cheap today. Now, I remember then, looking me in the eye, it's true what you did, but I'm sorry our presidents say don't get involved. So we're out of this housing business, we can't go in here. Then the MPs started complaining. We can't afford it, Mr. President. Let's raise our salary. You're right. Then we have to do something. I remember so many MPs that I have money for 300 million euros a month -- I have money for tea. I have money for 500 million teas since. How could there be so much cost? The people who work at the council are good people, but there's a rumor going around that I, Aykan Bey, Müslim Bey, sat there drinking tea and writing to all three of us. Oh, my God, is that supposed to happen? Or they'd go like this. Brother, that's not gonna happen. These men are honest men. They work on wages here. Don't do that. We did the math to prevent it. We did the book. In my time, the fixer will drink a thousand cups of tea a day, crack. He can't drink. How much tea does a man drink? He drinks five glasses, he drinks 10 glasses. How many kilos of teas do you take out tea, herbal tea, I've done all the math? In the end, we became profitable. I think it was except for coffee, except for these other beverages, just tea and stuff -- now I don't know if it's 30 or 40 -- we gave 20 lira in my day, we got rid of it. Friends, I'd like to say that now we're short on salary. When people come out and they see a journalist, they want to raise wages, but when the minimum salary is this much, will the MP's salary be that much? I refused to do it. He says so. Oh, come on. Who said that? Well, he didn't talk like that in front of me. In front of me, he said, "I'm paying $1,000 a month for a plane, Mr. President. I pay a thousand lira a month for gold, Mr. President. I pay 500 lira a month for tea, Mr. President. The money's gone. The man coming out is changing, brother. This screen is a bad thing. What are you talking about? Is that possible? Minimum wage is $300. My salary -- then -- is $2,000. That won't happen. He says. I've called most of them, I've spoken. I have to talk like this. I said, look, the truth of this is that if the legislature is a mission, we have to pay for it. In America, they pay $110,000 a year, $180,000 a year. He opens his office in the area, and he does this. And we need to make a proper arrangement, or if we're going to cost the salary... what does it mean to have a congressman's salary indexed to the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister? What does it mean to have another officer's pension indexed in your retirement? I'm a congressman, I'm a chosen person. My account should be separate, my account should be separate. You're telling the truth, Mayor, you do it, we'll shut up, we'll never talk outside. Look, you tell the president, you sign one of my proposals, I'm in. Even if Ali had told us, if there had been others, what we'd been through. The people who said yes with me have gone, and the presidents will not sign, no one will sign. Oh, if he comes to shut up, let's shut up, but let them do it. Our side did not agree with them to do so. They're going to exploit us again, he said. It's the truth that I live with. I left. That's what we've always told the other presidents. Then again, they called it a signature from all parties. I think the MHP has been very honest about this. He said, "I'll help you with the president, and I'll help him with the signature of the MP in charge." I wish we had Hamzacebi so we could ring your ears here. But other presidents certainly don't have a signature or a contribution in this matter. If they do, if you don't shut up, you don't have to. Thus, until a few years ago, there was no adjustment in wages or anything else. Now, thanks to Hasan Korkmazcan, this bill was also present at the time, and it was arranged a little bit more. While we're thinking about it... we've made an adjustment on the payroll, but we're still an undersecretary. We have to get out of being indexed to the undersecretary. Pay's low, it's a lot, it's different, but I have to have a status. I need to know what my rights are, what my social rights are. And here's our lead: we're doing everything for the European Union, for the acquish, bro, and we thought we'd do it. And this arrangement for the MPs. I don't care if there's one there or not, there's one that exists, and there's one that's gone. I went to Greece once, at the time of KEIPA. We're having dinner at the embassy, and Ahmet Haciosman is there, and the other one... it's 12:00 at night. If you'll excuse us, we're going to Parliament. I said, "What's in the House?" Sir, two or three laws have been discussed, their vote is 12 o'clock tonight. It's been put in 00. There's a procedure there, and there's a time and a day of the vote. I wish we had it. If only people could come more for the vote, at least they'd be there to contribute as much as we really need their thoughts. There may be different applications everywhere, but we, in the European Union's acquisitor, as elected people -- the mayor, the congressman, the Speaker, etc. -- have to think about what we need to do, and so on. Look, our friends organized grants and expenses, rights and payments, foreign ministers, pension, treatment, maternity leave, death benefits, social rights, staff employment, protocol order. If you want to take out five of them, we can replace them with one, but let's talk about it. It's the end of the semester. After January, no one stays here, no one thinks about that. I think we should put it on the first agenda of January if we're on vacation until the 6th or the 5th. Sir, you have a majority, you take it off. It's the old-fashioned way. In fact, I'm not saying that I want to put this in the way that we all know it's right, but let's discuss it, let's talk about it, and then let's bring it to Parliament, dear friends. If we don't do this, we're gonna be in a lot of trouble. I lived through the time of my Parliamentary presidency: we're going to Istanbul, we've got a judgehouse, we've got a police house, it's perfect; you've got Waterworks, it's perfect; you've got something, it's perfect. Where am I going to stay? So far, I've been in my 20-year parliamentary life in either the police house or the teacher's house in my own place. The day I stay in hotels is not more than ten days, I have a custom. There's Florya in Istanbul, a very old place, near the Ataturk Mansion, but it's beautiful. Let's expand it a little bit. There was a road collapse during the construction, and Bakırköy Municipality seized it, and it did not rise; it did not rise in spite of Yetenç; it did not rise in spite of Ali Topoz. I was going to build 30 more beautiful suites there, renovate the assets. I took a seven-acre place with them from the city hall. If you'd like to take a walk to the beach, the filling there is a place we got from that time. I couldn't get 30 places in there because we couldn't get past City Hall. We have a place in Beşiktas, or rather in Balmumcu. It's not enough, it's not enough, it's just breakfast, they're both clean, they're both decent, I'm happy with both of their services, but it's not enough. Then we need a place. Everyone gets a place here, here, before it's privatized, so I went to the Prime Minister, and I said, "You're going to give us space." Beşiktaş has a building in the corner of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and I can't pinpoint its location. And behind it was a place of Chaykur, where we took it, and we made it an increase of one trillion, and we made it a guesthouse. Friends, we don't have a guesthouse in Ankara. I don't know if the Parliamentary Union has a place up there. The only food you can eat in Istanbul is the Filizı Mansion. And in my time, we built a small thermal facility with 30 rooms in the thermal. They had sprouts, Mr. Cindoruk, whose foundation was laid out in the time of time, and it just stayed there. When I visited a Yalova, we said that our retired lawmakers, active lawmakers, come in, get spa treatment, and this is a place in the forest, where it'll be comfortable. Thanks to Cemil Cicek, he closed it a few months ago. He says he closed it with the idea of remodeling, so hopefully, that's what he's going to do, so whatever he's going to do, he's going to do. Guys, we need places like this. There are villas on the sea side of the 14th term, there are villas in Kuşadada of the 15th term, there are in Arthur of the 16th term, Antalya of the 17th term, there is nothing after the 20th term. In the 20th term, we came, and it was over, and the debt was over, and the building was stopped. Was it true what they did? Well, you can, but then they've all gone to summer homes with their treasure allocations. I see them all in the summer in the plane to Izmir. Where are you going? We see them all, Mr. Moses. When we come to our senses, it's not a big deal. What's the point? They talk for three days, and the fourth day's over, brother. Who's gonna talk? Are we doing something unfair? Are we in the wrong business? Those who come out of the dorms can't build new facilities, I agree, but I need accommodation. There must be something like this in Bursa. It must be in İzmir. We have MPs there. We're going there. I'd like to see my friends, I'd like to have a place of our own, I'd like to stay. So we know what our friends bring to us in places like this. Let's make an honor of this period, and I think we should make an arrangement for the MPs. For example, as former Speaker, perhaps I'll continue to use red on the passport, but our MPs will use the same passport as a third-degree officer. So, is that right, guys? We are about 2,800; 500 are here, and the rest are from earlier times. There's a funeral here every day. I mean, is there any point in putting this person in line, embarrassing him, ruining him? What's wrong with us? Sir, let's change the Passport Law. Let's change it. They sat down 10 times, couldn't change it at the Internal Affairs Commission. Why? Others are coming in. We think of judges, we make laws; we think of soldiers, we make laws; we think of academics, we make laws in three days. Well, why can't we take it out for the MPs, so why don't we get together? President of the Parliamentary Union, he's a friend. So seeing him as a member of the AK PARTY group represents all of us, came by choice. So, I'm asking our Speaker to pioneer this, and I think we should take it off the table in January, as long as you're all here to help us get to this point together. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Dear friends, I have expressed these as my sincere thoughts, that you may find wrong, that you may agree. I think all my deputies should be as sensitive about this as possible. This should stop being a topic to discuss in the coming hours. Now, dear friends, let me tell you something that has something to do with this. At a press conference a few days ago, Mr. Haluk Koç claimed that some MPs or ministers' relatives were appointed without a public search for KPSS or trial. There's a lot of names. It's not all true, I can't say it's a lie, but some of it's true. Yesterday I actually appreciated Mr. Kilicdaroglu's speech and followed with interest, and Mr. Bahçeli spoke briefly, but I followed him. Somewhere he turned to us, and he said: "Yes, look at an uncle Recep, and look at these, their children." Friends, it's not a good way to blame a ball. I think even if he's right about that -- I agree with some of the points -- but it's not a crime to blame on us. From the point of view: Now, among these ministers, I speak for myself, I have a daughter, she doesn't work, she couldn't teach because of her veil. I have a son-in-law, he was a doctor when he got married, I don't know about the KPSS, I don't know how he became a doctor. I have a son, I must confess, some of our fellow ministers have offered me a staff, and let's make your son this way. He said, "My son is in my mind, I will work in the private sector." He's been working in the private sector for six years now. Let's put that aside, after many years, there's a minister who has two children, who's not even a year old, who has no children, and who have children who have no ties to the state. So instead of blaming the whole thing, some people might say, "Some people might say," they might say, "They might say." They can't keep me out of 83 names. They have other goals in this. One: to build a hoard on my name. Second: this is to further strengthen your claims. Dr. Metin, for some reason, they told me, honestly, I don't know that name, I've never seen it in my life, I've never dreamt it. Then I said, look into it. They said he was working at the Capitol once, so now he's getting everything out of Google, and now my advisors have found it. He worked in the City of Mamak, worked in Family and Social Policy, worked in the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, where he worked, and when he was a civil servant for 16 years, he went to TİB. And what does that have to do with me? He was on temporary duty at the Clave for a while. You're all deputies, aren't one of your advisors at least a temp? Besides, he didn't work for me, he was brought to the House at the time -- is this restructuring, perhaps Nevzat Bey will know better -- experts from some institutions were brought in, and then he served as a temporary officer in the Parliament. I'm sorry, and I explained, and I don't know how much space my explanation was. But look, I'll tell you something: you can say anything about me. I also believe that most of you don't think like Kamer Young. It was a matter between us and him, and I think it's going to go on like this, but I'm a man of integrity. When I was going to run for Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Commander Sav of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Baykal, you're an honest man, they said, "Let's support you." I thanked them. I'm a member of the AK PARTY Group, and I'd like to be elected by their votes. 25 MPs voted for me from the CHP, and some of me didn't, and some of you did. I'm telling you, now they're coming at us, the children of the ministers, the lawmakers, they're going over here. One of them is with the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've looked at your group, and I've seen a few of my very new friends, but I've seen a few of their former sons and daughters here, as well as their brides and grooms here.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0603par0178	That's wrong too, Mr. Secretary, that's wrong too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0179	It's wrong, it's different, but when you tell me that, does he think he's not inside himself? He may, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is new. Then let me tell you this memory: I am the Speaker of the Assembly, and Berhan Simsek, like Kamer Young, gives me a press conference every day: he did this, he did this, he did this, he did this, he did this, he did this, he filled the House. Those are the charges I don't deserve most. One day he said, "I'll hold a press conference tomorrow, how many ANAP people are here, how many DYP people are there, how many AK PARTI people are there, how many people are there, how many virtues are there." First, I sent word in the morning, and if he does this, I am the Speaker of the House, and I have all the information. I went into Human Resources, and I said, "Don't make me tell you that the People's Republicans, the People's People's People, are three times as many as the others." There's nothing on him. I called Mr. Baykal. He's not here today, but you can ask him, our relationship with Mr. Baykal was very good, and I'd appreciate him too. I said, "Look, he can talk about all this, but he's a partisan among the people who were taken. If he said, I'll have to explain the names here." Don't make me do this. You're right, Mr. President, I'll take care of it. He said, and he didn't do it the next day. Friends, from what I know, believe me, every staff in this House was an exceptional staff when I arrived. The locksmith staff is the exception, the barber staff is the exception, the shoe-painting staff is the exception, the consultant staff is the exception. I didn't agree to this, so I left here by canceling 276. I didn't put a man in the place of the retired or elsewhere, I tried to prevent the waste here, but look, this year, from the past, there were CHP people, the Homeland Party, the Right Path Party, the Justice Party, even a little bit of the Welfare and Favourite Party -- the AK PARTIEST people had not been able to bring men in. Some put his wife in it, why? Because the House had great resources. When a man retired from parliament, the general manager elsewhere was 6,400, and the chief was 5,500. Everybody wants to come here, they don't want to leave. We had 600 cops working for the House for 19 years, but it's six years tops. Why? We'd give each of them 600 lira in compensation, and he'd take advantage of their health benefits. I don't think I'm the kind of secretary who comes in here on a temporary mission and wants to get out of here. I've never seen anyone come in here on a temporary mission and stop being a consultant. They wear out the doors at the end of the semester: Aman, put me on the staff. And they come from every party beyond your own party, people you can't break: Therefore, there are those who, in every case, have had their closeness to the Speaker of the House, his wife, his sister-in-law, his son, his son-in-law, and his son-in-law, I present it to his curiosity. Secondly, the nationalist movement party gave me the benefit of the doubt, about two years ago. About two years ago, there were some very serious charges, and I was angry: death, you want a ten-dollar fine for this kind of heavy accusation, I don't accept it because there's treason, I'm obstructing terrorism, I said there are Kurds, I mentioned my relationship with Kurds, etc. A sentence as small as this: in his day, TRT became a farm, and there were partial assignments. I can't accept that. They're showing me a name, my press agent. I got my press advisor from the SPK, and he's a government official for 16 years before the SEC. Then I put him in the TRT, so he could work on my relationship with TRT. Every minister does it, and he has to do it, and the press agent will be somewhere, so their relationship with him will be stronger. But I'm so sorry. Since the past years in the TRT, I've made a list of every politician's wife, sister-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-law. Those people have nothing to do with it. I can't blame those people for his mother's political influence. That's why I didn't give them their names from here, so I sent the list by hand to the members of the group. Guys, we need to be honest and transparent. There's a fact in Turkey today that almost every ministry... Thank God they're not Vice Prime Minister. I can't appoint a consultant. When you're a deputy prime minister, you're a person with no budget, nothing, just a name, and people think we're something. My dear friends, one of them has a budget of 70 quadrillion, the other has 60 quadrillion, I don't have money, I do as much as the PM does. But for what it's worth, every ministry has a consultant's office; there's a prime minister's office, there's a president's office, there's a parliament. The last time our Speaker passed a law, he tried to shut it down, and he did it well. When I arrived, I said, "My brother, I am not a miner, I don't need you." Pharmaceutical counselor, pharmacies, 12 pharmacies, then we had 12 pharmacists. Sir, I've come from here, I've come from here. They've finished the university, they've made counsel here the next day. This could be all of it. There are chiefs of staff in the municipalities and exceptional civil servants in several offices. They'll take it if the local authorities let them. Using these exceptional staffs is not a crime, not including municipalities, but the law permits and allows it. We can only look at the matter ethically, and you can blame it on whether it's true or ethical. Otherwise, they've got 80 people in here screaming like that, 1 million people out of work on the other side, that's not something to abuse. Let's be honest. When you have this opportunity, you can ask those who have used it for one purpose or another, you can examine the rights of appreciation, but you can't say it's against the law, the Constitution, the law. What you're going to say is, is it ethical? And a severe punishment is not a crime. And it's done in a bad way, and I suffer from it just like you do. This place is being used like a station, terminal. You do it on the floor, a month later, two months later, three months later, you put him in another institution. You're using it for a second person. You take it, you use it for a third person. This is wrong, friends, this is wrong. The people who did this, the people who wanted to do this... I've always respected your criticisms, but these are the things that were done during the AK PARTY, they're all thieves, they're all corrupt... we don't deserve that kind of accusation. When we do this, everyone must take their part in these criticisms. I know a lot of our friends, and I don't intend to expose them. My dear friends, I haven't heard from the game outside, but I hope we're not losing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0604par0185	It's a tie.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0186	Then they're waiting for us to score. My dear friends, let me ask you one more thing, and it is this: there was an altercation. Mr. Sky, some of our friends have participated in this, after long negotiations, long discussions, there have been misunderstandings, apologies, pardons, great weather, but at the same time, we lost time and I think our President has been wrongly accused and so on and so forth. Friends, of course we know this or we need to know that since 73, our Parliament has had a Civil Code, which we believe is under the Constitution. It's changed over and over again, and it's wanted to be changed, but the General Assembly negotiations or commissions in this parliament may also be involved in this, and it's the Civil Code that decides what way it's going to be. The provisions that exist in this Civil Law are to be carried out, and I must confess, they have not been applied in recent years. Just so there's no noise, just so we don't waste time, just so we don't waste time, so to speak, from the ancients say, we're being silenced, we're being given promises, and this is happening, but if there's something in this parliament that's called "substantial," we have to show our dignity with our actions, with our behaviors and with our attitudes. There's 65, we didn't bring it, it's been there since 73. Interrupting, dealing with the person, interfering with the working order is forbidden. Can we discuss this? So, what are they? That's obvious from the apps. We've all lived on these things. Article 66 of the President's right to interrupt. The words of the 67th article continue to speak, the clean language, the rude and hurtful words, and those who speak of them. So we have to be careful about things like this, without losing respect for each other, and considering the reputation of our House, we can talk about certain things without being private, without being personal, without damaging personal rights, without having to talk about them. Now, I had memorized that album until the time of my Parliamentary presidency, in the privacy of all lawmakers, how many children he had, where he was born, what faculty he had finished, or whatever. Not so much now, looking at the lawmakers I thought I'd seen for the first time, maybe they're looking at each other like that. I used to call them their names, their homes, his father's name. I had this curiosity. I'm looking at all these friends of mine: First, Miss Binnaz Earth, a person I respect, and now and then we see each other. Mr. Levent, a dear lawyer friend of ours, we were recently in Cyprus together, and my wife and I congratulated him, and he's going to be a good group of vice presidents, and I sincerely believe that. I respect Mr. Malik, we have no sitting, no eating, but he is a man I respect. Aykan Bey, my compatriot, our Bursa MP, academic at a young age, very kind, very kind, a friend of ours who listens to you speak. Müslim Bey and I talk more than Plan and Budget, and when I was our master, the President of the Press Council, I was very critical, but we never hurt each other in Parliament. We respect each other, we shout and shout, and when we go out, we say respect, sir. Well, let's do it on this stand. I mean, I don't know if it's the color of these seats or if it's the lust of this bench. But we're getting carried away, brother, and we're becoming unrecognizable. Mr. Mahmut Tanal, he's got a heart of gold to me, but I'm looking at what he's doing. I'm speaking from my heart. We've talked a few times, and he considers himself in charge of every matter. Then we have a braver friend than any of us, brother. He did what Ihsan Hoxha could not do, he held a press conference with the trances, and our friend defended their rights. I mean, it's possible to get everyone on the council stand or the press conference, but it takes courage, not every man's profits, Tanal, privates' profits, look, you even did that. Our governor was the Governor of Çanırı, my wife and I went, and he invited us. I mean, we know each other, and we love each other. Last Plan and Budget Commission, we also said something nice between Ihsan Hoxha and Musa Çam Bey. CHP has opened a mosque. I haven't heard it yet! It's open, go on?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0605par0197	It's open.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0198	I said, Master Ihsan, since you got the highest vote in the convention...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0606par0199	Mr. Secretary, you'd better open up the camisole.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0200	Tell the Speaker, maybe he'll open it. I said to Master Ihsan, you got the highest vote in the convention. There is another task: be an imam in the mosque, and make a congregation in the rear of Moses Pine. Look, you know what's in my heart, you can't make Musa Pine a congregation, but Musa Pine will make you sing the gendarme anthem. (Laughter) I'm sure of it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0607par0202	But he's got a bad voice.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0203	I swear to God... (Laughter) I told Kamer Young to leave for six months and he still doesn't understand what it really means.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0608par0204	Do you praise me or resent me?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0205	I'll praise you, God forbid, would that happen? You almost won the municipality in Üsküdar. My dear friends, what I want to come to is...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0609par0207	Minister, it's only natural in Turkey that there is a mosque in the CHP for the criticism you just said about this press or that there is a mosque in the CHP.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0208	Yeah, yeah, yeah. But that night -- forgive me -- I mean, you have to make jokes from time to time -- that means there was a need for a psychiatrist in CHP to open a mosque, that's what I said. This could have been opened before, and it could have been opened later. But thanks to you, Bachelor did what he couldn't with us. I'll tell you what, we should celebrate that, too. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) From the back, there's only one body left to open. I think you should ask the CHP to open the temple before Parliament. So that need could be more real there.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0610par0210	Why don't you start that one?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0611par0211	I mean, don't you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0212	Okay. I'm not saying anything about this place either. Okay, we have the authority to open this place...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0610par0213	No, no, not in Congress, but in headquarters.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0214	But there's the president. Well, thank you. Dear friends, in order for the negotiations here to be peaceful and mutually understanding, there's no need to be too hasty, no need to deal with the personality, no need to look after the rights of the individual. When a person's rights are lost, we all have to take care of him.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0612par0216	Mr. President, Beşiktaş scored a goal.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0217	For God's sake! Oh! (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) All right, thank you. I already had my hopes up on this team, and I hope it doesn't come from behind. My dear friends, before, you see, I looked at my notes, and I was sitting over there after I left the Speakership. One day, there was a speech on something. Then Mr. Akshener is Deputy Speaker of Parliament. Every time the young gentleman takes the stand, he speaks without saying. Not just for the President, not for the Prime Minister, but for us.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0613par0219	Mr. President, it would be much better if you didn't go any further into this beautiful conversation now, would you?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0596par0220	I'll say something nice again, thank you. I mean, I don't mean to offend anyone, I put myself first. I can be a person who acts on his own, and most of the time I am, with feelings... let's put all this aside. But this House needs to get rid of all the arguments it doesn't deserve. I'll just express my feelings, turn them off. See, then I said here that the MPs, Mr. President, would start talking about the MPs. It's an expression of kindness. You don't tell me, but I'm going to keep telling you, I don't want you to count mines from there. Mr. Akşener insisted that you say "Mr." He didn't. This is a separate structure. No, it doesn't. After that, I began not to call him. Now, friends, it's not right to shout or shout and make things difficult. Again, I said from this stand, don't raise your voice, raise your voice. Waterdrops in the ground are a blessing to the earth, and heavy rain is of no use. Keep your voice low, raise your voice. The saying is: There is wisdom and wisdom, and in the voice there is only shouting. If we want our voice to be effective with the word, we'll be able to make it perfectly clear what we're saying. We're not going to talk like you're dealing with hostile forces, not a rival party, without screaming, swelling up veins, eyes popping out. It's as simple as that. See, it's a saying from the Lord: Have you ever heard a judge shout? I speak in Turkish or in Mevlana: ▪ The futurist shouts, the judge doesn't shout. The one who has a word to say, the one whose opinion is valuable, doesn't scream. The one who shouts can't think, the one who doesn't think, the one who fights. Have you ever heard a judge shout? Precious ones don't scream. Tomato man, turmerist yells, but the jeweler doesn't scream. Old man yells, but antiquities don't scream. Let me turn around, 'cause there's a lot of yelling in here. [[Laughter]] Those who think do not shout. You can't think when you're screaming. Dear friends, please, in this manner, let's have our discussions, our discussions. This House deserves it. When we get out of here tomorrow, the reports will be our witnesses. The people who read these transcripts will have an opinion about all of us when they see these insults, these inappropriate words, when they see them tearing each other apart. Everything that's written in the transcripts, like a textbook, will be an acquittal of us or a charge mechanism. I think all my friends will be very careful with these sensibilities. I beg forgiveness for my own mistakes. And I can't think of anything to say about the name Zat. Good evening to you all.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0614par0238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, we have a match with Legia Warsaw this evening. Let's wish him well in Poland. [[Applause]] This time I wish Tripolin good luck; I hope we get good news from him as well. Now, on behalf of himself, I would like to call Mr. Malik Ecder Özdemir. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0615par0246	Mr. President, Congressmans, I don't want to stress this General Assembly too much after Mr. Bulent Arinc's words and speech of honey pouring out of his mouth. At the beginning of my speech, I began again as Mr. President, and pay my respects to Mr. President. In the minutes, Mr. President, we don't want your respect, but I'd like to start by bowing to Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0614par0248	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0615par0249	My dear friends, under this roof last week, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there was literally a scandal, a scandal. He was invited to parliament on the grounds of giving a lecture as an invitation to parliament, and under this roof he made insulting remarks to the republic's fundamental values and republic's revolutions under the roof of the Republic's most important institution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Although the Speaker has launched an administrative investigation into this matter, but we have a motion to file a criminal complaint against the Speaker with the co-signed signature of our group presidents, which we will follow until the end of our request. I don't want to say too much about the budget, we'll talk about it later. This budget does not actually bring much to the oppressed, the poor, the unemployed, the peasant we call the nation's master, but aims to build palaces by spending 1.5 quadrillion lira on those who claim to be servants of the nation. My dear friends, there is one other thing I would like to speak of, not of the escaped palace, but of another palace. We have historical national palaces in Istanbul, which are in parliament. We've been trying to bring corruption, unlawfulness, to the agenda of Congress in these national palaces for over a month. I don't know if any of these palaces are being inventoryd, if any of the historical artifacts are actually being taken care of, but there are 10 different kinds of businesses that depend on these palaces, called cafeterias. These cafeterias, previously run by Parliament, have unfortunately been pursued by the Parliamentary Secretary General in 2003, in a manner so-called against law, morality, ethics, many AKP businessmen and supporters -- literally speaking. I tell you from here that Star Teras Cafe in Star Park has been given to the nephew of AKP Vice-President Sulejman Soylu. Mehmet Soylu, the nephew of Dolmabahçe Watch Tower, still to the children of Kadir Topbaş; and to the son-in-law of the AKP businessman from Kasri. We've brought this up as members of the Republican People's Party's Presidential Court, we've asked for an investigation, and we've asked the Speaker to conduct an administrative procedure on this matter. Unfortunately, no investigation has been launched until today. Although internal audits have been opened, we, Mr. Riza Yalçınkaya, have filed a criminal complaint against the republic's attorney. If there are republican prosecutors in this country, they really need to go for the moral, illegal score. The bottom line is that according to Law 2886, places that belong to the treasury can't be rented to anyone without permission from the treasury are being taken as a payday by bureaucrats, under the name of the so-called "consinian business" and another strange aspect of the job is the commission under the name of "receivement." There are two bureaucrats in Istanbul, the chairman of the commission, Deputy Secretary General. These are the ones who received the proposals, the same commission, which says yes, it's appropriate. It's the same commission that confirms them. There's no such thing as understanding. I really want to say that we are not going to give up this immoral, ethical and illegal corruption. We may not have been able to present this corruption in five minutes to the attention of the General Assembly of our Parliament, but in the coming process, I would like to say that we will be able to investigate the account of those responsible for this matter, after the illegal palace, in the National Palaces, eventually. Mr. Secretary General is here, our Deputy Speaker is here, and we've brought it up on the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0616par0255	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0615par0256	I mean, very clearly, very clearly, against the law, we're Congress, we do what we want. I'm saying that no one has the right to pursue the existence of this nation to anyone. We know that this budget will bring no good to our country, no good to the unemployed, no good to the poor. Therefore, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying that we will vote against this budget.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0616par0259	Thank you, Mr Malik Ecder Özdemir. I forget all the things you've said to me, and I thank you again. Now we're going to start the QA process. We're 20 minutes out. We'll take ten minutes to ask questions, then we'll spend ten minutes with answers. We've got congressmen friends entering the system, so I'll make a promise in order. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0617par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions. One of them, as it is known, is dated June 16, 2012, and number 2012/15. Many issues have been granted the permission of the Prime Minister, especially the mineral licenses, according to the lute. How many procedures have been taken since then to obtain the Prime Minister's permission? To whom or how many applications have been allowed so far, how many are waiting? Is this sentence considered to be removed? Since he's former Prime Minister, I'm guessing the new Prime Minister has a right to save his life. Second: Is it true that the Religion Foundation claims that, for example, the money collected in mosques and the money collected from the Foundation money to the President of the Religious Affairs and some high-level executives received a large number of cars? If so, to whom, in what features, how many cars were bought?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0618par0267	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0619par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the reason why the presidential budget has been increased 100 per cent during a time when unemployment reached double digits in our country when the officer was given a 3% increase? Was the previous president incapable of representing our country? Two: How many municipalities did the Court supervise in 2013? How many of the controlled municipalities belong to the ruling party, and how many belong to opposition municipalities? Three: Is it true that the share that should be transferred from the Bank of Foundations in 2012 to the General Directorate of Foundations was transferred to TÜRGEV? If that's true, how much money has been transferred from the Bank of Foundations? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0620par0274	Thank you. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0621par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the government.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0620par0278	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0621par0279	There's a foundation in our country called TERGEV. There's been a lot going on in the press lately about this foundation. What's the financial status of this foundation? How much assets does he have? How much money has he received so far? I don't know about... My second question is: There is nothing against the law that is giving a budget speech on behalf of the AKP Group regarding the illegal palace at Ataturk Forest Farm on Tuesday. Recently, again, Ankara 5. Our Minister of Justice objected when it was alleged that the District Administration Court rejected the request to stop the execution. However, the bureaucrats gave false information, correct, 5. The Supreme Court has decided to stop the execution. Which one of these is true?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0622par0282	Thank you. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0623par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. We have consultants working with us at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we have third party friends. Mr. President, I'm afraid they can't benefit from severance pay. It's a great injustice to not be given severance pay to the counselor and the third staff working with us. This must be given. Again, there are people working with 4/C. That's what we've been talking about at meetings in the previous Plan and Budget Commission. Although they were promised to be casts, they still could not be replaced. Again, there are various trade groups in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. He's got a carpenter, he's got a blacksmith, he's got a plumber, he's got an electrician, he's got a welder. They're supposed to be on the technical staff, but unfortunately, waiters or chefs don't hire them. There's a staff of approximately 90 to 95 people. Of course, the waiter and the cook are also a staff, but we think that it's unfair to them to have those positions committed in other professional groups. Again, our staff here has various service costs. They don't get enough of the service. I'd like to know what these studies are. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0624par0290	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0625par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's a very common rumor that Mr. Mahmut Tanal has just said, but since I see it as important, I'd like to ask you again and ask you for an answer. A very serious rumor is said to be that more than 100 journalists and journalists, including the central media newspapers, will be arrested this morning, starting with the newspapers you call parallel structures, across the country, and that this operation will grow in size, if necessary, at the cost of delaying the elections. How do you feel about that? Is that claim true? There is a saying in Asia Minor that is worse than the event. If people have doubts, concerns, and fears about this, I really think it's a sign of where law and democracy are in Turkey. I'd like your answer, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0626par0295	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0627par0297	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Arinc two questions. Mr. Arinc, can we first find out the sum of the money the Prime Minister used in the first 11 months of this year from a covered grant? Can our friends report it? If we learn all of 2013, we may have the opportunity to compare. Another question is: On a question asked to him today, Mr. Prime Minister stated that the issue of amnesty and autonomy is not on the table, it is not discussed. However, a few days ago, some fellow officials from the other side explained to the press: "References are on the table in the process of resolving, they are discussed, and we will share the issues with the public for a day or two. How do you assess these two statements? On the one hand, the Prime Minister's statement, which he called "nope," is what the other group calls the autonomy process. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0628par0302	Thank you. Mr. Aksinger... no. Mr. Oktay Ozturk... no. Mr. Oz... no. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0629par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the current number of written questions submitted by lawmakers in the 24th term? How many of these have been answered in the duration, how many have been answered after the deadline, and how many have not been answered? What's the ratio of the question proposals answered during its period to the total question motions? What are the number of questions in the 24th term that were not processed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? How many times has the Prime Minister's attention been taken as expressed in the Interior Charter for questions not answered by the President during the 24th term? What is the need for the president's budget for 2015 to increase 100 per cent in funding? Again, what are the reasons for the 70 per cent increase in presidential personnel costs? In your opinion, is Recep Tayyip Erdoğan President, Prime Minister, Chairman of the AKP, can you separate this with certain lines? Again, in your view, is the President neutral, feeling connected with the Constitution? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0630par0316	Thank you. Dear Sugar... no. Dear Little...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0631par0319	Mr. Secretary, although there is a Prime Minister's Generality on the principle of equality in personnel procurement, there are unfortunately problems in the public's employment. The proportion of women in public institutions, such as the Head of Religious Affairs, is reduced to less than 10 per cent. How much of the staff employed at the institutions where we discussed their budgets today are women? What is the high level of female staff in these institutions? What are the studies that are being made to increase this place? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0630par0321	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0632par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in the institutions where we discussed budget today, in accordance with Article 59 of State Officers' Law No. 657, how many personnel were taken without a test and how many were appointed to other staff members of the institutions where we discussed the budget today? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0633par0326	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0634par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you have anything to say on Monday about a lynching attempt on a former AKP MP, Feizişaran? Is this lynching a threat to those who are likely to rise up next? Do you approve of lynching attempts outside the law, and will you object to this at the highest level? I want to know if everyone's going to do their own thing from now on. Even within the court, he was beaten, and he struck his head against the walls with a sarcastic tone. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary for an opinion on this matter.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0633par0329	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0635par0331	Mr. President, there are questions that don't belong to me. If you'd like, Mr. Vice President, perhaps Mr. President Secretary General, to make a few statements. I'll prepare for what's mine and answer them.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0633par0332	Here you are, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0333	Regarding Mr. Pine's question, the law on 4/C has been passed. The tests will include 20/4 percent of the students. It's not legally possible to put him on any other kind of staff. The improvement by the Presidential Court, however, greatly compensated the salary difference between staff members and staff staff members of 4/C. The financial rights of staff members are determined by Law 657, and the financial rights of 4/C" staff are determined by the decision of the Council of Ministers in the public and by the Presidential Court of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In parallel with increases in public personnel from 1/1/2014, the price difference between staff staff and staff from 4/C (C) has been reduced as a result of an increase in the presidential Court's decision. For example, the difference between staffed personnel and staff members of 4/C is around $350 as of 1/1/2014. The difference was around $670 before 1/1/2014. The other question is about personnel who want to move from the assistant service class to the general administrative service class. There are 312 staff members in our auxiliary service class. The number of staff in the public class is 110,860. The issue of the transfer of staff in the auxiliary service class to the general administrative services class has been raised at a meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers, dated 20/11/2014, but it is not on the table, considering that it is not right that the staff in our institution be kept separate from the staff serving in the public. In addition, they have been assigned to staff members of the staff general administrative services class in the auxiliary services class, which have been successful in the promotional exam this year. Regarding the question of Mr. Yenisırri, any statistical information on written and verbal question motions is available on the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You can also answer in writing. About the questions he asked during the speech of Mr. Özdemir: the directive for the operation of social facilities in the national palaces is not by the signature of the Secretary General, but by the signature of the Speaker of Parliament. I don't want you to know...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0637par0338	He's worse, he's worse.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0339	I mean, it's a separate matter of information.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0637par0340	That's worse.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0341	At the same time, the speaker at the conference on understanding the Minister for Turkey, held at the Grand National Assembly on 5 December 2014, used inappropriate statements that were inadmissible in any way acceptable. In regards to the matter...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0637par0342	Why is he being invited?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0343	Sir, no one on the stand can predict or predict what they're going to say.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0637par0344	Then why are you calling me? No other men? The guy's got a record.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0345	Listen, please. The investigation and investigation have been launched and two administrators have been suspended, and the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has filed a criminal complaint regarding statements at the conference.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0637par0347	What about the corruption in Istanbul?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0348	Yeah, I'm getting to that. I'm getting to that. When we spoke that day, Mr. Özdemir, we all agreed to investigate. The matter has been discussed on the Presidential Court and has been assigned to 3 Court inspectors for external audits, 2 supervisors for internal audits and 2 judges for investigation. Based on the results of the investigation and investigation, it will be done accordingly. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has received permissions from the Ministry of Finance as a result of the work launched by the General Secretary's Office to lease the existing cafeterias under State Contract Law 2886...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0638par0351	When, Mr. President? They applied after this corruption. Don't! Don't let the General Assembly fool you.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0352	According to the president's and the Presidential Court, these places will be rented or run by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0638par0353	It was made after our complaint.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0354	Mr. Özdemir, that's where the matter was discussed in the Presidential Court. A unanimous decision was made, along with his opposition, with his power over the deployment of lawmakers. We'll wait for the result.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0638par0355	So, why wasn't the administrative procedure on the lunatic done about it, Mr. President, so is this theft less of a crime than the other one?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0636par0356	The question Mr. Öner asked during his speech: Mr. President's actions -- let's not eat -- are related to the presidential residence. I wish you'd been asked or done a brief investigation before making such statements, Mr. Öner. Our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Cemil Cicek, lives in his own home, not in his presidential residence, has already stated on various occasions that he will not move into his presidential residence. Again, media members also received a parking ban on parking bans. The statement is not true, but is assigned to a larger parking lot than the current parking lot. The President's statement regarding the invalidity of the President's oath has been answered by the Parliamentary Presidency, which has not been determined to repeat the oath of the President, and there is no action to be carried out.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0639par0360	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0640par0361	No, wait a minute, please... Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0639par0363	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. In this directive, in this rule of law...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0640par0365	But I'll make the promise, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0641par0366	Sir, you asked a question, we answered it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0639par0367	I feel sorry for our Parliamentary Speaker, if he's been used to this illegality.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0640par0368	Mr. Özdemir, please, I'll make the promise, you asked me, I said please. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0642par0370	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Light had two questions: one of them, permits, permission of the Prime Minister. The document on this issue is: 7.094 files have been filed from June 15, 2012, from which the Prime Minister's body has entered into effect, 91 per cent have been answered positive and 5.5 per cent negatively, while 3.5 per cent continue to be evaluated. This sentence may be lifted, but it's continuing its mission for the time being. The second question is: How many cars were taken to the President of the Religious Affairs and to the higher levels, with the money collected at the mosque of the Religious Foundation? Mr. Erdogan, in the presidential budget, Mr. Secretary General has no say in the matter of our internal code. I'm sorry, I may have just been wrong. I mean, when these issues were discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, it was probably answered. I don't think it would be appropriate for me to say a word on the presidential budget. How many municipalities has the Council overseen? Our president can speak, but this has to be based on data, so if you'll allow him to answer in writing. I'll make sure I get to a few things quickly. From the foundation to the foundations, did he leave the money to TERGEEV? There's absolutely no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0643par0376	I didn't ask that question.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0642par0377	Mr. Erdogan asked, sir. There was a question about a budget for Mr. Erdoğan, and the second question was, "If there was money left to the Foundation General Directorate in 2012, did he leave it to TÜRGEV?" There's absolutely no way, we can deny such a thing, and there's no way that could happen. Mr. Belen wrote and wrote about TORGEV, how much money did he receive? I've answered 20 motions of substance, and if I repeat it here, I can't fit it in a minute. I'll send them to you, and maybe your question will disappear. It was Mr. Pine's Parliamentary staff. Mr. Tanal asked me that first, and Mr. Ecder repeated it, and I wish I could answer it while I'm standing. The point is, my friends brought it to me. You know, there's a name on Twitter that's become a phenomenon, and sometimes it's written with a name and a place to name things that are going to happen in its writings, so there's no mention of it here, either. It's called Fuat Avni. He's probably thrown up to 50. On Friday (December 12th), Istanbul, Ankara and Malatya-based operations will be carried out at the beginning of these cities, such as these, journalists, etc., etc., and so on. I mean, if this information is made with a name, it should be considered serious. We were able to get our Minister of Justice on the phone because he wasn't here. I mean, there's no interest, there's no basis to this kind of information, and that's what we believe, but, of course, there's no way of knowing if an operation like that can be done tomorrow, three days later, five days later, how much it's covered, what it's for.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0644par0382	Does that mean it's going to happen, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0642par0383	No, we can't accept everything written on Twitter as real. Second of all, this person has written a lot of tweets, many of them are insults, many of them are hatreds, many of them are slanders, and we don't believe them, but given the names here and the names of the officers assigned to the operation... I mean, I'm the only one who's serious about it, so it's got to be focused on it. There's nothing more to it than saying. I'm not a member of the Police Department, one; I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a judge, two. I can't imagine what the Minister of Justice would say. But I got the talks about the tweets, and I found them serious, and I found them a little serious. What more can I say? Hopefully there won't be any actual outs or outs or outstripping the judicial process. I'd like to say that, too.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0645par0385	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0646par0386	There were appointments, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0647par0387	Mr. President, let him continue.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0648par0388	Mr. President, sir, there were some things I was critical of. Mr. President, to graduate from the same high school as my deputy...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0647par0389	Let's give the Minister time to respond.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0649par0390	He can give it to you in writing, but that's it.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0650par0391	May I know in what form of the Civil Code you have requested?
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0651par0392	Sir, the questions were not answered. Critics were not answered, a number of views on the issue that was not criticised were expressed.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0652par0393	Let's answer in writing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0650par0394	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. There's no way I'm giving you a say in this.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0651par0395	Yes, sir. I, for the record...
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0653par0396	He didn't want an explanation. Give Mr. Secretary time and Mr. Secretary will explain.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0650par0397	He said he'd answer in writing, Mr. Secretary. Members of lawmakers, I will now, in turn, have you read separately and vote on the transfer of budgets in the first round. I submit to your votes that the presidential budget for central management of 2015 will be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Presidentship Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 397,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 397,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the president's central management account of 2013 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Presidential Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 186,310.000.00 Budget Expenses 181.466.334.33 Canceled Fund 4,843,665,67 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 763.216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 763.216,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the final account of central management in 2013: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 722,741,520,42 Budget Expenses 651.897.008.77 Cancelled Fund 67.060.856.70 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 3,783,654.95 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the People's Investigator's Office take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.60) PRODUCTION OF CAMU EXPERIENCE 1) Public Control Agency Central Management Budget 2015 03 Public Order and Security Services 15.368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 15,368,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 15,168,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 15,368,000 The Public Control Agency has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Public Control Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 17.575,000.00 Budget Expenses 14.129.184,47 Canceled allowance 3.445.815.53 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): The overall total is 17,889,232.94 Ret and Returns 693.59 Net Collection 17.888.539.35 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Central Administration account of 2013 has been adopted as part of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Court's presidency shall be taken into the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 22.302.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 159,750,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 4,300,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 186,372.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Court was adopted in part of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's central administrative account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 164,587,200,00 Budget Expenses 141,002.930,93 Canceled Fund 23.584.269.07 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Court of Justice was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of the Constitutional Court shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 1) President of the Constitutional Court 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 9.688,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 33.814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0654par0504	Mr. President, when I say those who agree, we also accept the budget of the Constitutional Court, and look at us.
tbmm-2014-12-11sit05spe0650par0505	Okay. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. General TOPLAM 43.502,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Constitutional Court has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. President of the Constitutional Court for 2013, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration shall be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 36,372,408,44 Budget Expenses 25.268.180,46 Canceled Fund 11.104,227,98 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Constitutional Court's presidency of 2013 has been adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 will be passed by those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 31.525,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 131,442,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 162.967,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court shall take part in the final account of the central administration in 2013: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Supreme Court Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 144.686,000.00 Budget Expenses 129,777,735,42 Canceled Fund 14.908.264.58 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 will be moved to its sections: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 18.722,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 84,951.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 30,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 103,703,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The court approved parts of the central management budget in 2015. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prosecutor's Office's Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 89,653,280.00 Budget Expenses 82,518,012.22 Canceled Fund 7,135,267,78 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The court was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's office will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Prime Ministership Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 845.597,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 2.159.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.034,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 53,628,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 701,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 22,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 929,119.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's 2015 central management budget has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central management account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Prime Minister's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 1,206,235,598,49 Budget Expenses 1,177,353,253,88 Canceled Fund 28.882.344,61 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's central administration account of 2013 was adopted. I submit to your votes that the National Intelligence Agency's Investigative Service shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.75) THE MILITARY PROPOSITION OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) Undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency 2015 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,108,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 1,108,220,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 958,728,518,64 Budget Expenses 874.112.460.49 Cancelled Fund 84,616,058,15 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 27,682.869.87 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. The Secretary General of the National Security Board, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.76) GENIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION OF THE MILK 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 22.575,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 22.575,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board in 2013, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board General Secretary for Central Management Final Account for 2013 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total allowance 20.166.876.00 Budget Expenses 18,221,269,18 Canceled Fund 1.945.606.82 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. I submit to your votes that the President of the Religious Affairs shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 07.86) THE PRESIDENT OF DISCOVERY 1) The President of the Religious Works' budget for Central Management in 2015 01 General Public Service 39,419,145 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 191,525 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 9.593,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 519.117 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 5.692.332.513 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 1,327,700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 5,743.383,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the National Executive Account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Head of Religious Affairs for the 2013 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.960.893.631.00 Budget Expenses 4,971,484,728,65 Compensation Expenses 49,461,325,44 Cancelled Grant 38,870,227,79 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Religious Affairs was adopted in 2013 as part of the central administration's final account. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Foundation General Directorate of 2015 will take part in the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.18) THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS 1) General Directorate of Foundations 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 26.935,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.910,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 559.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 355,836,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 60,573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 452.814,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 499,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 49.272,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 88,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 636.622,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management budget of 2015 were adopted by the General Directorate of Foundations. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2013 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Foundation General Directorate: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 509,967,333,96 Budget Expenses 440.933.470.28 Canceled Fund 68,913,419,50 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 120,444,18 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 501,023,000,00 Collection 554.398.305.88 Ret and Returns 18.337.340,71 Net Collection 536.060.965,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of the Foundations was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey will be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.61) THE BUILDING OF ENGLISH PEOPLE'S RIGHTS 1) Human Rights Institution of Turkey Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 4.633,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 200,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 4.833,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 15,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 4.833,000 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Human Rights Institution of Turkey has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights shall take part in the final account of central management in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Human Rights Agency for Central Management Investigative Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 750,000.00 Budget Expenses 401,606,39 Canceled Fund 348.393.61 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Net Collection 765,900,73 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Turkish Human Rights Institution was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2013. Members of parliament, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the first round have been approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Friday (December 12th 2014) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. I bid you good night.
