tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, we celebrated Teacher's Day yesterday (November 24th). We all know that our relationship with our teachers is not a relationship that we completely remove from our lives after we get our report card, our diploma. Even though they are not with us, they always live within us as a reality reflected in our preferences, actions, decisions, styles, pleasures. I had a teacher, or a teacher, who told me that... we've used sentences in every aspect of our lives and we're using them. There is no other profession that can leave such deep traces in our lives. And I, along with the members of the Court, remember with mercy and gratitude all our teachers who have departed from us, especially the Headmistress Ataturk. I kiss the hands of all our teachers with respect. On this occasion, I also salute my beloved sister, Professor Tülin Polat, who has contributed a great deal to my upbringing, who still has worked hard for me, and who is now the teacher of many German teachers. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Members of parliament, this is also the day we are present on November 25th, when the United Nations considers it the International Day of Fighting Violence Against Women. As a woman, I'd like to point out that no matter where violence is applied, no matter who it's applied to, no matter what excuse it's made, it's never acceptable under the rule of law in the form of democratic life. Violence against women is a great shame, a great shame. Again, as members of the Court and members of the Court, on this meaningful day, I wish for the end of violence against women who are the pillars of our social life, a world where equality, not power, is the answer to violence. Congressmans, due to yesterday's Teacher's Day and today's International Fight Against Violence Against Women, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to 12 members of parliament, and I'm going to ask them to enter the system. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Nesrin Ulema, the İzmir MP who asked for a comment on Teacher's Day. Here you are, Mr. Ulema.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed deputies on November 24th for Teacher's Day. I salute you all. As it is known, our teachers perform a sacred duty to build the world of the future, together with the future of Turkey, by training man in the most ideal way. With a well-grown young and dynamic population, Turkey has achieved great successes from education to health, from justice to safety, and is moving rapidly on its way up to the level of substantive civilization every day. Of course, in this nation's success, the greatest labor we've come this far belongs to our very dear teachers who have served all over our homeland. For twelve years, as the AK PARTY authorities, praise man so that the state may rise. We are putting our teachers first and appreciate their efforts because we value all kinds of investments made to man by his philosophy. Education has been our top priority in every period since we came to power in 2002. Since 2005, we have kept our share of education in each budget set in first place. Between 2003-2014, we had over 450 thousand teachers appointed. In January 2015, the Prime Minister shared the news of his appointment of 15,000 new teachers with the public yesterday. Not only are we making the highest possible number of appointments, but we've also made a lot of arrangements to improve the standards of our teachers' lives, improve their rights, and keep their morale up. The national education budget, increased by 726 per cent compared to 2002, reached $62 billion. We've done 210,000 new classes, not enough, we're increasing this number even more. As we enter the 21st century, our teachers continue their training activities in a class of 70 to 80, we now have 30 students in our classrooms. We're handing out tablets to make it easier for students to get information. In 11 years, we gave about $3 billion in education to the mother of 17 million of our students. I'd like to share with you a few digits about our Ýzmir province. As of today, our number of teachers, 25,000 in the 2002 school year, increased to 38,000 in İzmir. Over the past 12 years, Smyrna was funded and invested in a total of $1 billion,600 million in education. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I believe that the future of this country will be much brighter because of our teachers, who have never lost their love, never lost their idealism, never lost their ability to make progress in the world. The way we look at the teacher, I'll be a slave for 40 years. It's an epiphany of understanding. Therefore, in our culture and civilization, teachers, teachers are as valuable as our parents, as saints and saints as they are. However, while our teachers performed this sacred assignment, they were also subjected to great challenges, prohibitions, and various pressures from the past to the present. Teachers who, prior to the AK PARTI rulings, have banned teachers from covering their heads even on the way to school, offended candidates of teachers at university doors, opened their heads in cabins, urged them not to do what they believe in, are free to teach today without any restrictions or barriers. On this occasion, I welcome all of our teachers who have come to eternity once again and celebrate the Day of Teachers on November 24th. My respects.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0003par0028	Thank you, Mr. Ulema. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Fatma Nur Serter, who wants to speak on the same subject. Here you go, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0004par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I celebrate Teacher's Day of our teachers' Day, whose number has been near 350,000, who have been dedicated throughout the country, who have embraced their students with love and compassion, and who have waited years to be appointed at the door of our teachers and the Ministry of National Education. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, if we are the real representatives of the nation, it's a day when we have to remember that the teacher is human and that his work must be paid for success and motivation. Unfortunately, the AKP era has become history as a time when teachers have lost their dignity, their reputations have been severely damaged by society, and they have been reduced to the lowest-paid group of public employees, facing serious poverty, deprivation issues. Teachers in Turkey today receive four times less than teachers of OECD countries. Today, 79 per cent of the teachers in Turkey are in debt to banks, 40 per cent live on the help of their family, one of the three teachers has to work as an additional job that has nothing to do with their profession. Purchasing powers are constantly falling, and teachers waiting to be appointed are getting old. In a country with these conditions, valued lawmakers, I ask: What good are November 24ths? On November 24th, do those who celebrate Teacher's Day as if it were a teacher's holiday feel no shame in the face of this painting? Today, we would love to give the teacher candidates the good news of 40,000 new appointments, and unfortunately, the number is up to 15,000. Again, today we would also like to give to our poor teachers who have suffered a serious salary increase in conscience because their voices trembled and their eyes burst, but because their honor was damaged, we would be ashamed to tell them all about it, and to share it with the public, like the teacher Hizýr, who couldn't carry out a tiny request of his child, but unfortunately, that didn't happen either. However, I would like to address our teachers now and then to our teachers: Do you know that our beloved teachers candidates could be appointed 71,000 new assignments against the newly acquired luxury aircraft and the yearly expenses of the escaped palace, and they could be paid a year's salary? Again, I would like to address our teachers who have been trained in broken classrooms and roofed buildings in all parts of Anatolia: Do you know that despite these expenses, each one could be built by 700 shining school buildings or 7.406 classes, but the government has used its preference for luxury and luxury. But don't ever back away from imagining a Turkey, where the teacher has found its true value, which is governed by justice. Executives who work for education in such a Turkey will not be removed overnight; political staffing in such a Turkey will not ignite the fuse of the wrongs in education; in such a Turkey, the use of paid teachers will end, and attacks on secular education will no longer end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish our teachers hope and strength to resist.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Serker. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, who claimed to be a teacher on 24 November 1928 by Ataturk, in the remotest corners of Anatolia, feeling the title of Chief Teacher of State, from the 100th year of birth, from 1981 to the day of Teachers, we began celebrating this day as Teachers' Day. On every other side of the world, we celebrate the day of our teachers, who think that they are teachers, who feel that they are the teachers, that they are the teachers, that they are all of whom I saluted, and in the most remote parts of Anatolia, that they feel that they have lost their dignity, that they have lost their dignity, that they have seen as outcasts on November 24th, but on every other side of the society, that they are not. Dear lawmakers, teachers don't expect praise from us on November 24th, they don't want praise from us. For the rest of our lives, we have trained you like a candle, we have melted ourselves, we have consumed ourselves, we have taught you Turkish history, we have taught you civilization, we have taught you humanity, we have taught you science, we have taught you injustice, we have taught you not to speak of injustice, we have taught you not to speak of injustice, we have taught you the equivalent of two days, we have taught you the law, we have taught you to love the country, we have taught you to love its people, we have taught you the flag, we have taught you about development, we have taught you the economy, we have taught you agriculture, we have taught you agriculture. What did you do now? What have you done for your country, not for us? They ask Parliament, government, state. You can be sure that these people, who we leave to live below the poverty line today, who are having a hard time living, who are looking for scholarships to get their kids to study at college, are involved in big problems, both in their economic problems and in their rights. Teachers and educational directors, who have not had a education policy for 12 years, who have been forced to follow every minister's yogurt food, today a parallel structure in the Ministry, which is under the order of a trade union that has taken over the Ministry, have dismissed 8,000 executives, not just to defend the teacher's rights, but to become a political staff. One fears God and has a conscience. 8,000 education managers in one day at a time. People who have given years and years of hard work, who believe in conscience, right, law, they seek justice, justice, and nowhere to be found. Has anyone ever expressed the point where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will find a solution to these injustices? Does this government's ruling party MP have any interest in this? We're asking the Ministry of National Education: Why did you buy these? Failure in duty? He hasn't received a commendation in years? What did you do to get them? It's just an injustice to political staffing. We'll follow the rights of those precious teachers, those precious executives. The National Movement Party will make the best use of them, hopefully in its time for power, but this situation they're in today has to be resolved. Many professions have severance pay. Teachers are in great trouble, people who carry school problems home. I have prepared a law proposal for them on severance, and today I present it to the Speaker of Parliament. I want the House to consider this business with a state-of-the-art look and give these people this support. I'd like to give teachers a salary bonus on the 24th of November Teacher's Day. By handing out carnations, not with good speeches, I salute the High Assembly, not with the bank loans, credit card debts that my esteemed MP is talking about... to the extent that these people who receive the lowest salary according to the Europe you've compared will live on as human beings.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. Now, I'm going to give a minute to the friends who have entered the system within the scope of the issues I've stated. But first, I'd like to start with the members of the group. I'll make a promise to Mr. Sky. It's the first time we've been on watch, so I'm thinking we could do some good work together. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the week we're in, no matter how much we explain our loyalty to our teachers, is a week we'll never be able to repay them our rights, their rights to us. The price situation our teachers are involved in, living conditions, is a point where we all have to come up with common solutions. Especially unappointed, unassigned teachers' screams echoing from our rooms every day, echoing from the fields. When he finished college, he couldn't get a job, he couldn't teach, he couldn't get his student back, we're dealing with an army of unassigned teachers. They're going through very difficult conditions, each trying to maintain their lives separately in a respectable way. But in our House, unfortunately, we suffer from the frustration of not being able to provide them with the price they deserve, the social life they deserve. I hope and wish that our teachers, who raised us and trusted our future generations, will live a life where they will feel secure in much better conditions, in much better environments. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute all our teachers, including Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who raised us and, of course, taught his teachers, with respect and respect, it is our duty to enlighten them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, too. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party, celebrate the day of our teachers' Day, who have raised all our children and instilled information in them. We believe that the problems of our hands-kissing teachers must be resolved through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Which is why we're going to submit a research motion tomorrow. If our other party friends participate, there may be a parliamentary investigation. On the other hand, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, president of the Republican People's Party, we also offer his condolences for the death of his mother-in-law. We offer the same condolences to the Republican People's Party community.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0011par0070	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Yes, we also offer our condolences to the two families for the loss of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's mother-in-law and for the loss of Mr. Vural's wife. God rest his soul. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to my fellow lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. New, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0012par0078	Mr. President, the Teacher's Day of November 24th was celebrated throughout the dorm. I also congratulate all our teachers and my wife, who is a teacher, on Teacher's Day. I will be a slave to him who taught me a letter. I also want to point out that we are following the path of Ali the Lord. Our teachers' reputation has improved during the AK PARTY. Turkey no longer has and will not have convincing rooms. There is no teacher who has been discharged because of the headscarf, and there will be no more. Education was first-degree during the AK PARTY administrations. As of 2002, teachers' appointments increased by 100 percent. Samsun was given 3.302 new lessons. The education expenses for Samsun are 678 million and 116 thousand TL. Turkey continues to have all the lessons it needs. And according to the budget, our teaching assignments continue on one side. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0011par0080	Thank you. Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0013par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. I too celebrate Teacher's Day on November 24th. In particular, in order for our future generations to look more securely at the future, to address their problems more easily, to make their lives easier, and to improve the social and economic situation of our teachers, to meet their cultural and modern needs, to maintain their rights and dignity in society, the EC PARTI governments have been put into intensive effort and effort during the period of their administrations. In particular, after our Prime Minister's statements yesterday, we have again observed that our teachers' expectations on this matter have been partially met. 15,000 new teachers will be appointed. Again, November 25th was announced by the United Nations as the Day of Fighting Violence Against Women, and such a day has been set for various NGOs, local governments, politicians to draw attention to this issue, especially until December 10th, World Human Rights Day. I especially...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0014par0087	Thank you. Mr. Drift, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0015par0090	Mr. President, thank you, too. Once again, I celebrate Teacher's Day on November 24th and kiss the hands of all the teachers who raised us. And our teachers taught us love, brotherhood, tolerance, and those teachers, our hand-kissing teachers, said, "Don't abuse the woman." We were at the Justice Summit, organised by the Women's and Democracy Association in Istanbul yesterday (November 25th). ▪ Be men first. We say to all who practice violence. Stop the violence against the child, the woman, whoever you're applying, and approach it as a human being. In education, in health, in political life, in public order, in management, let the woman's opportunities be even, but first, let's establish mutual understanding, love as human beings. Any violence against the woman needs zero tolerance...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0014par0093	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0016par0096	Mr. President, thank you. First, I congratulate you on the 24th Day of Teachers of all my teachers, the Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I expect that 15,000 new teachers today are understaffed, that this will be determined to be at least 40,000, and that our teachers' salaries will be increased according to the conditions of the day. A fair distribution is expected according to majors. I also condemn the violence against the woman. Besides, I have a warning to the Ministry of Health. The ALS disease is equipped with diaphram and heart-responsive batteries. However, it is not paid by the state; the patients are victims. I call upon the government and the Ministry of Health to be sensitive. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0017par0101	Mr. Buldan, first I made a promise to the members of the group, but now that you're here...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0018par0102	I was outside.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0017par0103	...to ask permission of friends, I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0018par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to offer my condolences to the entire CHP community on behalf of HDP, especially Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu and his wife, for the death of Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroglu's mother-in-law. It's also November 25th, Women's Fighting Violence Day. We, the People's Democratic Party, say that in order for any violence against women to stop now, the political will and the government must take responsibility for it, and the mechanisms needed to be carried out in order to end any violence against women. There will be a commission here today to investigate the murder of women and all kinds of violence against women. I'm saying that we care about this, but it shouldn't be limited to this, and that to end any violence against the woman, very different mechanisms must be activated, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0019par0110	Thank you, too. Mr. Canalioğlu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0020par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. I too, as a teacher, celebrate the days of our beloved teachers, wish them happiness in their lives. Good words are spoken when celebrating Teacher's Day, but unfortunately there are various discriminations in some places. For example, while our teachers watch their televisions, some channels are sadly turned off and therefore their freedom to watch television has been taken away. We're hoping and waiting for this to be fixed immediately. Again, today is International Fighting and Solidarity Against Violence Against Women on November 25th. In Turkey, 2014, unfortunately, women are killed, children killed, workers killed. Women are under as much pressure and violence as they've ever experienced. On this occasion, women want to be heard by taking care of their labor, their bodies, their identities. They want to raise their voices to make peace, peace, and a human life grow, and they say: "Let women live. " And we support our women, we wish them health and happiness. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0021par0118	Thank you. Mr. Hosier, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0022par0121	There have been maintenance on the railway between Tekirdağ-Edirne-Istanbul for nearly two years. Since the start of this time, the flight has only been held three days a week for one-way trip. Due to renovations on the Thrace Line again, no transport has been available since 2013. Even though I've made three motions about the situation in question, I still haven't received an answer. In this case, Tekirdağ, Edirne, and Cırklareli are a heavy financial burden to all Thracian citizens, especially students who use the most cheap route of transportation. Only one bus company serves at exorbitant prices for citizens who want to go from Çerkeköy to İstanbul. My Thracian countrymen expect alternatives to the removal of transportation. Today, of course, I have watched the International War on Violence Against Women, and I have watched with great wonder and concern and sadness the President's words about the fact that women and men cannot be equal on the day when we will point out violence to the woman who is one of the most embarrassing human rights violations, and the basis of this violence lies in discrimination.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0023par0126	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0024par0129	Mr. President, on this day that I have been promised to create awareness of women's murders, unfortunately, we have the President's statement that he's used to it, and I condemn it. I want to ask him, do not you and Bilal and Sümey, who you have sent to him to understand the problems of our teachers, who have to be workers in the mine, to cover the corruption and unlawfulities of power, to change the agenda, and to reflect the inner world? Is that a futrate? From here, we send greetings to all the women who say, "It's not ffitt, it's all the women who fight this battle." Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0025par0132	Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0026par0134	Mr. President, thank you. Teachers continue to have very important problems such as organizing, appointment, promotion, transfer, demotion of rights, demeanour of teachers, regression in education, loss of salaries and additional courses, problems in the norm staff and area changes, the separation of families in the appointment of apology groups, the absence of a number of staff members for teachers, contract teachers' hard work conditions for work and future security, constant training and changes of the examination system. 50 per cent of teachers can't pay credit card debt, 2.5 per cent are in debt to a loan shark, 27 per cent have to do additional work. For an intelligent and modern Turkey, we will continue our struggle to improve the rights of our teachers, resolve their problems, and avoid political pressure. Happy Teacher's Day.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0027par0138	Thank you. Mr. Boiler...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0028par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, first of all, on behalf of November 24th, I congratulate you on the Teacher's Day of all our teachers. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies today is the International War on Violence Against Women November 25th. The United Nations agreed to this day in 1999, but since then, the world still has an agenda, unfortunately, like violence against women. Violence is weakness, violence is misery, and violence is a violation of human rights. It's neither human nor conscientious. Therefore, it's never acceptable. So far, during our governments in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there have been a number of legal regulations on this issue, many healing laws, preventive provisions, but I think what's really important is the transformation of social mentality. I hereby salute the House with respect.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0029par0144	Thank you. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0030par0147	Mr. President, yesterday the teachers were once again comforted by the gaudy words of your power, but the teachers shouted their own demands on the streets again. It was also a day of fighting violence against women, against murders. I'd like it if both our Minister for Family Affairs and our Minister for National Education were here today. We used to pass on what we saw on the street, the demands of the teachers. The director of the National Education Directorate in İzmir (Izmir) removed 480 directors at once and replaced the ones they had been relieved of and appointed new teachers -- who had just been appointed to that school, teachers whose performance could not be measured. But the same National Education Director Gultepe is far too far from his post to know that he is not a teacher in an elementary school because he is interested in other things. I've already filed a question motion, and I still haven't received an answer from our Minister of National Education, so I was wondering...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0029par0150	Thank you. Mr. Warker...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0031par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I congratulate all teachers on the 24th of November Teacher's Day. Again, today is November 25th, an important date set by the United Nations General Assembly. Violence against women in our country and around the world has been a wound that has been bleeding since the early ages. The recent persecution by ISIS against women in Syria and Iraq resulted in hundreds of thousands of women being brutally murdered, raped and sold as slaves. I say that all nations must come together to support the fight against the woman, or the world will not be a safe planet for women, and I hereby salute the House.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0032par0157	Thank you. The last speaker, Mr. Coshkun.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0033par0159	Why the last one, sir?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0032par0160	I've explained before that I'm going to promise 12 people.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0034par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Like our other friends, we celebrated November 24th on Teacher's Day yesterday in our provinces. Today, I celebrate the day of our teachers, who serve all over our country, under the roof of this great House. I also honor and honor our teachers who brought us to this day. There is no doubt that our teachers, whom we entrust our most valuable assets, are very important to us. Every profession is important and sacred, but the teaching profession is the grower of all professions, and the greatest people who make all kinds of sacrifices. So, I say that our teachers are in better shape today than they were yesterday, but in order to improve their condition, I hope that in the coming days, we will have the necessary work done, and I salute all our teachers.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0035par0165	Thank you. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, and I will have them read separately and present them to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek was accepted as an official visit to Macedonia from 23 November 2014 to 25 November 2014 to 18/11/2014, with a parliamentary delegation to Ilir Meta, to Albania to accept the invitations of Macedonian Parliament Speaker Trajko Veljanoski and Albanian Parliament Speaker Ilir Meta. The names reported by political party groups to form our delegation are submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe was adopted by the Council of Europe on 20-21 November 2014 in Rome, Italy's capital city of Rome for the meeting of Presidents of Development, Research and Innovation Commissions; accession from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was adopted by the General Assembly of 18/11/2014 and the 15th. It is submitted to the information of the General Assembly of Ibrahim Halil Mascıoğlu, head of the Commission for Information and Technology, as reported by the political party's group on the 2nd Article of the Law concerning the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Afif Demirkıran's visit to Strasbourg on 24-27 November 2014 to meet with members of the European Parliament on the European Union's Progress Report on Turkey has been met with the ruling dated 21/11/2014 by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court of Parliament. The visit is submitted to the General Assembly's information, according to Article 10 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are motions to resign from the commissions, I'm having them read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from the Justice Commission that I'm a member of. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do. 25/11/2014 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from the Environmental Commission I'm a member of. I'd like to submit the necessary procedure. 25/10/2014 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning on the basis of the need I've seen to be a member of the Health, Family Work and Social Affairs Commission. I'd like to pay tribute to your information. 25.11.2014 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from my membership in the European Union's Integration Commission. With all due respect, it's the right thing to do. 25.11.2014 It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, there are three motions to open a parliamentary investigation: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to examine the impact of mining activities on historical and cultural structures, forest, agricultural production, water and drinking water sources, we have the need to open parliamentary research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 10/10/2012 [[Antalya]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Malatya]] 11) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] Following changes to the mining legislation during the AKP period, a significant increase in the number of mining and business licenses has been made, almost a quarter of Turkey's area has been opened to mining activities. This increase across Turkey has also had a serious impact on Antalya and the Mediterranean region. In the distribution of mining licenses, the disregard for historical structures, natural structures, forests and other economic activities may reveal that much more is lost than the value of mining activities. Sagalassos is the largest and most solid ancient city in the world. It has an invaluable value for Turkey's future. The Antigons Fountain and other parts of Turkey, which are still functioning, are the best preserved and best preserved ancient settlements in Turkey. Opening a marble furnace under such an important historical centre and very close to it is like murder. No country in the world is allowed to do that. At the top of Burdur's Karamanlı district, the marble quarry is licensed. Even without dynamite, buildings and roads in Karaman are covered in dust because of the dust from the marble quarry. It is known that marble is allowed in areas near the ancient settlements west of the entrance of Bucak district of Burdur. In addition to mining activities, historical cities and artifacts are seen to be looted in these areas, especially near historic areas, with business licenses taken out of sight. In various parts of Antalya, 3,267 marbles, stones, sand, or mines are licensed to destroy the forest, destroy the village roads, spread dust in the air, burden the environment and vegetation. Our forests, which we've been trying to protect, have been destroyed by thousands of acres of mines and quarry licenses, by giving our donkey-loading peasant a year to two years in prison. It is a fact that the waters of village settlements have been contaminated by January licenses, drinking water resources have been cut off, so the villagers have taken walks, as in the villages of Serik districts of Antalya. The farmers' products are also damaged by these activities. For these reasons, it is necessary to determine how many hectares of forest areas have been cut off because of the damage the mines, stones, sand furnaces have done to the forests; how many minerals and quarry business licenses have been issued near historical and cultural sites -- within 10 kilometers -- and the impact of mining activities on historical structures; the impact of mining activities on subterranean water and drinking water; the detection of these activities on the climate of the region and Turkey, and the measures that will be evaluated with the historical and natural structures and other economic activities. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We provide and propose the need of Kars' honey to mark geographically, and to open up all measures, including the protection of the Caucasus bee race, in order to determine the progress of Kars, one of the major cities in the province, in order for the development of beekeeping and the development of beekeeping and the development of beekeeping, under Articles 104 and 105. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Kars is potentially one of the foremost cities in beekeeping. Its vegetation is suitable for beekeeping, its flower species and abundance provide an environment suitable for the production of quality honey. However, Kars has the lowest rates in total number of hives and honey production in Turkey. According to 1999 data, the province, which has 1.13 per cent of the total hives in the country and 1.25 per cent of total honey production, has not made much progress in beekeeping today. There are no major beekeeping companies in the county. Beekeeping is done in the form of a small family business. The honey, produced like this in all counties and many central villages, is mostly marketed in small delis, which sell products such as oil, sluts, cheese, and have extremely limited capacity, or through small shops, where only local products are sold. 60 per cent of the honey produced by domestic beekeepers in the province is produced by their beekeepers; 40 per cent by Digor, Arpachay, Selim, Sarıkamiş, Susuz, Akyaka and central villagers. There are about 90,100,000 colonies throughout the county today. Turkey has about 5 million colonies. Around 80,000 tons of honey are being produced across the country. Only about 1,200 tons of this belong to Kars. There are no exports because local producers run this as a small family business. The local manufacturer's honey comes out of Kars as limited amounts of people who know their own people and who own a market outside the province. The province also does not have any facilities for the production of neteks, processing of honey, and packing under appropriate conditions. Before that, a land was assigned to the organised industrial area to meet this need. However, this land has not been found suitable for food production, so it has been postponed to this day. The beekeepers, whose problems we've been listening to, have focused on the importance of providing food-producing land. In addition, many of the producers in the province may say that they lack technological resources. There are not many manufacturers who have the materials needed for hygienic products. The entire domestic manufacturer must have technological opportunities, such as honey filtering, wrapping. One of the biggest problems with beekeeping in the province is that the Caucasus race of Kars has not been protected. During beekeeping season, they go with beekeepers from the Army, Samsun, Giresun and other provinces to produce honey. The local manufacturer claims they were victims of domestic beekeepers. Local beekeepers, who describe outside beekeepers as hybridizing the Caucasus bee race, suggest that these beekeepers are also producing inferior honey. Local manufacturers have explained that they sell honey cheaply because they produce improperly, so they can't sell their own products at the price they set. The members of the Kars Beekeepers Association have issued a warning that the Caucasus bee race will be completely over if the beekeepers from the outside are not prevented. It is clear that if the current potential in the province is supported, beekeeping will become an important source of income for the province's economy and will become a major sector. Long - term or unrequited support must be given for the support of beekeeping. At the same time, the protection of the Caucasus bee race in the province, the geographical marking of the Kars honey must be done soon. It will be an important source of revenue for the people of Kars to develop beekeeping and to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures to be taken by identifying the problems in this area. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Six of the 842 hydropower plants planned to be built in our country are scheduled to be built in Varto district of Mus Province. We propose the opening of Parliamental research under the 98th, Internal Law and 105th Articles of the Constitution for the prevention and removal of negative impacts on agriculture and animalry activities in the region, particularly the region's ecology, as well as the negative effects of our hydropower plants in Varto district, as well as the negative effects of our citizens living in the region. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The announcement of the Republic has also been asked to sacrifice many regions, which have been left behind in both social and economic terms under government policy today, to the newly created ground spaces of hydropower plants. In a socioeconomic sense, the people of the region have been crushed under the prosperity of modern - day communities, as a result of extrahuman practices, such as banning crossroads in the 90s, evacing villages and forced migration of citizens. The right of the people of the region, whose livelihood is mainly agriculture and livestock, has been seized by state-owned governments for decades, people's rights of life have been taken from them, the region has been purged of people. In the 90s, the experience of the State of Emergency and the ban on extremism has left deep wounds on the entire economy of a macro-level country, while the micro-level community of the region has taken away their livelihoods. There have been major migrations from eastern provinces to western provinces, with the economic benefits of the region being cut off, resulting in radical and difficult changes in the socioeconomic structures of both the region and the western provinces. No doubt our village and its boroughs, affected by this change, are trying to survive with limited resources. Our people, who are still struggling for existence in our cities and districts of agriculture and livestock at certain rates, are, in a socioeconomic sense, practically dying as a result of wrong policies. In this sense, many citizens have been forced to leave the lands where they lived today and migrate to other geographys, as they did yesterday. The recently implemented hydropower plant projects are, as they were yesterday, aimed at dehumanising the region. Instead of restructuring the region for current economic values and encouraging the region's people to do these economic activities, the last few pieces of land were faced with a structure that took from them by the hands of the state, creating new Rantfields and forcing people to leave the area. Thus, the planned HES will greatly affect the region's residents by increasing the migrations in the region. Many rivers and rivers with lifewater on restricted farmlands will change their beds, and the region's ecological balance will have difficult wounds to repair. There are 842 hydropower plants in our country that have been auctioned to build a power plant through corporate individuals and institutions, along with Power Market Law 4628. Six of these projects are planned to be made in Varto district of Mus Province. The rivers and rivers planned to be built in Varto district are Mengel Tea, Goshkar Creek, Murat River, President Tea and Capital Tea. The Goshkar (Kochkar) Creek, particularly in our district, is vital to the people of the region, especially in terms of meeting the need for drinking water, watering farmland, and the use of livestock, but also in Goshkar Hill, an important sacred centre in the belief of Alevi for the people of the region. The hydropower plants to be built in this region will have a negative impact on economic activities as well as a cultural disregard for the beliefs of the locals. The Goshkar Hill, which will be negatively affected by the HES, has an important place in the faith of our Alevi citizens living in the region. In this sense, we would like to order the opening of Parliamental research in order to prevent and repair the negative impacts on agriculture and animalry activities in the region, as well as the negative effects of our citizens living in the region's environmental and agricultural activities, as well as the negative effects on the region's agriculture and animalism activities, as well as on the regional ecology of the hydropower plants in Varto district of Mush. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, there's a motion for a parliamentary investigation. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 107 of the Constitution's 100th, ÜBMM Court of Justice, we demand and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation into National Education Minister Nabi Avcı under the following grounds. Aydın Ayan Ayadın Ercan Cengiz Mehmet Ali Sesam Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Sakine Öz Sena Kaleli Hüseyin Aygün Levent Gök Nurettin Demir Ayşe Nedret Akova Ali Sarıbaş Haluk Ahmet Silver Malik Ecder Özdemir 0sman Faruk Logogoğlu Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Erdal Aksunger Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu İlhan Demirözü Mustafa Balbay Ali Serindağ Veli Ağbaba Celal Dinçer Ahmet Toptaş Musa Pine Ali Haydar Öper Emer Önlı İdris Yıldız Aytun Çıray Kemal Millendereli Gürkut Acar Gökhan Good morning Orhan Delegate Tolga Chandar Gülsın Bilgehan Hülya Güven Oğuz Oyan Aylin Nazliaka Arif Bulut Haydar Akar Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Aytüğ Atı Dawn Pavey Mahmoud Tanal Haluk Eyidoğan Ali İhsan Kokturk Mehmet Haberal Namik Havutça Mehmet Şeker Melda Onur Tanju Özcan Binnaz Earth Mustafa Moroğlu Turhan Tayan Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Birgül Ayman Güler Metin Baydar A. GENIAL HUKSAL ACTIVITY In the Genesis chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, "The absolute rule of the people's will is the use of certain powers and duties, and there is a limited civil occupation and cooperation of the Turkish nation, and there is no free democracy and the rule that is shown in this Constitution, and the principle of law is the basis of the rule of law, which cannot be excluded from the established law, which does not mean the ranking of superiority among state bodies, but is the use of certain state powers and duties, and is a limited civil occupation and co-operation, and the rule is only in the Constitution and laws." In accordance with the established decisions of the Constitutional Court, the state of law, the state of law, the state of law, the state of rights based on the law, the right to protect and strengthen these rights and freedoms, it is the state that maintains a fair legal order in all areas and maintains it by developing it, avoiding unconstitutional stances, considers itself bound by the rule of law, open to justice. In the final joke of Article 138 of the Constitution, the administration and the executive body must comply with the court's decisions; these bodies and the administration cannot change the court's decisions by any means, and cannot delay the fulfillment of them. Again, the administration is obliged, without delay, to establish or act according to decisions on the basis and halt of administrative courts, administrative courts, and tax courts, in the article (1) of Article 28/7 of the Adjudication Act No. 2577. It is called (...). On the other hand, Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, titled abuse of the mission, (1), is sentenced to a prison sentence of up to three years from one year, which has caused the people's injury or public harm by acting contrary to their duties, except in the cases described as a crime. The 100th article of the Constitution has organised a parliamentary investigation into the Prime Minister or ministers, a key control mechanism of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; and the 107-113 Articles of the Grand Assembly of Turkey, with the parliamentary investigation of Parliament. Under Article 107 of the TBM Charter, the requirements for the opening of a parliamentary investigation are: a) About the prime minister or the minister who was in office or who was discharged, B) The proposal contains the signature of at least 1 tenth of the total number of members of the TBM, C) Emphasizing that the criminal act was committed in the line of duty and in the line of duty, D) Actions have been determined by justification and by writing the clause to indicate which laws and regulations are against it. In this framework, it has been deemed necessary to organise this motion on National Education Minister Nabi Avcı, since it is part of the crime of abuse, the failure of judicial decisions by acting openly against the Constitution and laws. B. MOUNTAIN PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION OF THE MEDIAL EDUCATION OF THE UNIVERSE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE UNIVERSE Last year, the National Ministry of Education passed a level-determination exam for the 8th grade (SBS) on 08/06/2013 and the results of the examination were announced on 12/07/2013. Ankara 18. On 10/01/2014, the Supreme Court ruled that the results of the level-determination examination should be halted. Later, Ankara 18. Executive Court 2013/1539 E. 2014/505 K. He has decided to cancel the SBS results with the number 31/03/2014 decision. However, the Ministry of National Education has ignored these decisions, disregarding administrative judicial decisions. In this framework, parliamentary investigation of the National Education Minister Nabi Avcı's actions, which he committed during his duties and because of his duties, is required to be launched in accordance with Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code. C. THE END On the grounds stated above, the actions of the National Education Minister Nabi Avcı, on the basis of his duties and duties, are in accordance with the misdemeanor of Article 2537 of Turkish Penal Code 257, and for the investigation of such actions in question, we propose and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 107 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. In Article 100 of the Constitution, the Parliament shall discuss this request within a month at the latest and decide it by secret vote. The recommendation of the Council of Advice on the meeting of the parliamentary inquiry motion will then be submitted to the General Assembly's vote. Members of parliament, members of parliament, members of lawmakers who are not members of the political party's group are also eligible for membership in the Commission for the Equality of Women and Men's Opportunities Commissions on Public Economic Oppositions. It is Monday (December 1st 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I will make read and vote for: 20.11.2014 Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation, headed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, is presented to Umman and the General Assembly of the Law between 6 December 2014 and 8 December 2014, on a official visit to Jordan from 28/3/1990 to the International Assembly of Turkey, to respond to the meetings of Atef Tarawneh, head of the Council of Representatives of Jordan. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The counsel board has a suggestion. I'll read it and process it and put it to your votes: 25.11.2014 At a meeting of the advisory council on Tuesday 25,11,2014 (Today), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party National Party of Action Democratic Party of Rights In Tuesday's (25/11/2014) merger of the General Assembly, women's killings were proposed to be carried out in the same day's joint session of parliamentary research proposals on the agenda, as well as on the reading of parliamentary research proposals on the common list, in order to determine the issues of women's violence and women's shelters exposed to violence, and the measures that need to be taken by which women are subjected to violence. On behalf of HDP MP Mehmet Şandir and 19 MPs (10/226) Hatay MP Mehmet Ali Ediboglu and 38 MPs (10/320) HDP Group Deputy Chair Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan. (10/321) HDP MP Iğdir MP Iğdir Pervin Buldan (10/321) MP Pervin Buldan. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My original bill 2/1800, your civil code 37. In accordance with the clause, I'd like to ask that the commission be taken directly into consideration for its absence within 45 days. As the bidder, Balıkesir MP will speak in Namik Havut. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0036par0509	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart on the Teacher's Day of all our teachers here today, especially the Head Teacher Ataturk. Once again, I would like to address the problems of our beloved teachers who listen to us here in every geography of Asia Minor from this stand. My dear friends, look, the problem with teachers today is economic problems. Mr. Prime Minister, yesterday the teacher gives the news to the friends that 15,000 new teachers will be appointed. True good news for teachers can be regarded as giving them a salary above the poverty line; otherwise, telling them that there will be 15,000 additional appointments in Turkey and saying that as good news is really insulting teachers today, mocking their intelligence. Look, the Justice and Development Party has been in power for 12 years. Just a moment ago, a dear congressman friend of ours says the teachers' condition has been improved. Look, I'm telling you... the lawyers talk to the teachers for reasons they don't. In 2002, a teacher friend received 24 small pieces of gold on a salary, 14 today. I mean, teachers' income is down 41%. You now say that in our twelve years of power, we have cured the situation of teachers. I'm speaking to teachers at Balıkesir Teacher's House listening to us, friends at Ankara Teacher's House: Has your situation really improved in the ruling of the Justice and Development Party? Look, even a broken watch tells the truth twice a day. You've been in power for 12 years. The number of non-assigned teachers in 2002 was 70,000, and the Prime Minister -- the current President -- was saying: "Would that happen? Is there a problem with unregistered teachers? When we come to power, we will appoint teachers immediately. Are you running National Education or are you letting it go? I'm telling you, I'm not being a eunuch. Look, in 2002, the unassigned teacher went up to 70 thousand, 2007 to 200,000, today there are 350,000 unassigned teachers, and there are teachers waiting to be appointed. Today's technology calculates what hour it will rain on Ankara, how many drops it will rain. How many math teachers do you need in Turkey, what will be the population of Ankara, how much will the population of Balıkesir have grown, how many classroom teachers Turkey needs, can't you calculate that? We promise from here, there won't be a teacher left in the Republic People's Party's Government who can't be appointed within a year, and I'm telling you from here, I promise. All our teachers in CHP power will be paid above the poverty line. From here, I speak to the ministers of the government: "You have a teacher in your family now, and teachers have raised you, so let the teachers pay their dues.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0037par0516	Will you shut down the faculty? Will you shut down teaching schools? Is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0036par0517	Look, the painting from 2002 went on exactly the same way, the teachers' salaries melted. Our friend just told me you ruined international law overnight. You've destroyed the status of all the directors, the teachers, with a law. What did you do to them? There's a union called EDUCATION-BIRD-SEN. It's your supporting union. This is the teacher Alevi. This teacher is the leftist. You have appointed all these friends in our hands and interview exams. The current education is a member of nearly 90% of the executives working at the executive level. Yeah, isn't there another union in this country? Why are you interfering with our teacher friends' union choices? The teachers expect you to give the right to a collective contract with strikes, as in the OECD countries, as in the countries of the European Union. Otherwise, he expects you to discriminate, discriminate between teachers, not appoint your own supporters as managers, but to give teachers collective contractual rights with strikes in the European Union standards, and not to ask for charity. So compare our teachers to European countries, not Syria, not Iran. Our direction is in the modern direction of civilization, the norms of the European Union, the high democratic standards. The poverty you've imposed on the teachers, the slavery order, the baton and the gas. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0038par0520	Thank you, Mr. Havut. On behalf of an MP, Mr. Ugur Bayraktuttan will speak for Artvin MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0039par0524	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I, at the beginning of my words, congratulate the great teacher, the head teacher, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and the Teacher's Day of all teachers. Hopefully, in the coming days, I'd like to greet a group of teachers who have never been reminded of any problems, just the 24th of November, at the beginning of my words. Now, dear lawmakers, I would like to present a fact beyond the teachers remembered only on November 24th, who were called the porters, and the reality as well. He just described it beautifully in Namik Havut. Look, there's the fact that there's a teacher in Turkey, about 19,000 in Turkey, and 330,000 waiting for an appointment, and also 15,000 more announced yesterday. I think we should question it in our own inner conscience, in a sense, to see if we can solve the problems of the teachers. Other than that, there's a serious problem with teachers. In a statement made by the Minister of National Education here the other day, I said to him from here, you made a statement to him, Mr. Secretary, to see if we look naive from there. There's a very serious problem here, especially with these first appointed managers, about reassignment, interview exams, Turkey. There's trouble in my district, and there's trouble in Artvin. Dear friends, the barber knows which school is appointed to the school of Artvin, those teachers, those directors, they learn from the barber, I know very well who is assigned where. You'll say, "Could it be?" It's happening, I'm afraid. I told the minister, "Mr. Minister, look, let's just say clearly in a certain union organization -- teachers who are members of EDUCMENT-BIR-SEN are appointed. No, he said there's a logic to it. He said, in his speech here on November 4, 2014: "Now, really, when we look at the union distributions of appointed executives, we see that members of EDUCMENT-BIR-SEN are a large majority. But we don't see that when you compare it to the appointments, when we do a comparison app, my dear friends. When we look at the global figures in Turkey today, there are around 250,000 members of the EDUCATION-BIR-SEN. We have a teacher friend who's a member of around 200,000 TÜRK Education-SEN, a friend who's a member of around 115K, a teacher who's a member of around 43,000 Education-Works, and a friend who's a member of the ECTIF education-SEN. Now, when you look at this painting, the Minister of National Education says that the math problem is zero. If the Minister of National Education was taking a math test, he'd fail, so those teachers would definitely fail him. So this equation isn't necessarily true in a sense because we know how the test is done, and we know who's making people ask questions. My dear friends, God rest their souls, there was a saying by Ahmet Taner Barracks: "Because the Ministry of National Education has become the ministry of national treason in this country, the principles of secular education in Turkey and the modern republic have been ignored at once." Therefore, in the coming table, we know how the appointments are being made, we know where the staffing is being taken, and in a sense, we consider well where they are being taken. I asked the Minister a question in January 2014, about a year ago, there was a serious problem with teachers' salaries and improvements, and I asked him a question, "How are you going to fix this serious painting?" My dear friends, look, today, when you compare teacher salaries in a sense to European countries, you see that there is a serious chasm. There's a teacher group that gets paid between $1,000 and $900, but in the European countries, where we're always modeling, where we're modeling modernization, in the countries of the European Union, there's $2,000, $3,000; there's a higher number. In Austria... it's up to $4,000. You, my dear friends, can't put the painting in front of Turkey as a pink painting on November 24th, by describing a teacher's audience that you have brought across the poverty line, side by side with the hunger line. Look, I asked the Minister of National Education 11 months ago. The Minister doesn't take the questions seriously. I said: Mr. Secretary, look, there's a painting like this. How are you going to fix these pay gaps between teachers and other countries? It's been a year, and there's no answer. We have a saying that the peace comes from the agreement. The defendants have the right to remain silent, but the ministers can't exercise their right to silence, my dear friends, the ministers have to answer that. Now, there are serious problems with your indicators and there are serious problems with your assignments, as I just stated. Isn't it optimistic, my fellow lawmakers, to expect teachers to teach children these concepts if you don't get justice, rights and rights in your Ministry? Therefore, there is a serious problem at the point of arrival. I wouldn't believe a thousand years I'd be giving a speech to the National Education Basic Law about the restoration of our oath. We'll withdraw the teaching of the children. I'd laugh if they'd told me three years ago that we'd put it back in the parliament of Ataturk. What you've done to Turkey, shame on you, I'm not saying anything else. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0040par0534	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The decision is that we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the "choice" part of the agenda. Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu has been nominated for 1 membership in the National Movement Party Group, which is empty in the Public Economic Initiative Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We move to the agenda's "Preparations for General Interview and Assembly Research." In accordance with the decision taken, we are starting talks on 32 parliamentary research motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine measures that should be taken by investigating the violence against the woman under the proposal of the Council of Counselling Council, which has just been read and accepted. Government? Here. Now, a motion from lawmakers of each political party group will be read to your knowledge, as they have not been submitted to information from parliamentary research proposals that will be discussed together. However, all jointly discussed research motions will be published in the full text journal. [[*]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly By investigating the reasons for the continued increase in violence, pressure and continued killings of women in Turkey, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under the grounds provided by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution on the basis of the 98th and Interior Charter. 29/04/2014 [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 3) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 4) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzurum]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Lug]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] [[Kütahya]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] According to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it is the duty of the state to allow everyone living within the country's borders to live in a healthy environment. In addition to the biological and physical environment, the health of the social environment is the most fundamental constitutional right of the individual. One of the biggest obstacles to the creation and sustaining of a healthy social environment is individual and social violence. The roles based on social gender reflect power relations and legitimize man's rule over woman. The male dominant language and culture environment has been the basis for the use and reconstruction of discrimination based on gender in both private and social areas. The fact that the state has not developed effective policies against gender discrimination, ignoring, ignoring violence that exists both in private and in public places, is a constant act of violence against women. This violence, an indication of the unequal power relations between men and women, deprives women of their economic needs and social rights as one of the social mechanisms of forcing women into a position of forced dependency. Don't the laws in our country have enough provisions to fight violence against women? Why is violence increasing rather than diminishing? The rise in recent years has reached the number of thousands. On the first hundred days of 2014 in Turkey, 61 women were killed by violence. Fortunately, Turkey was the first country to sign and ratify the Council of Europe Convention on preventing violence and domestic violence against women and fighting them. By going to the root of the problem, it will be easier for women to explore why in a subconscious way they consider men superior, even if not consciously, to come up with solution proposals. The reasons for male-based, wrong viewpoints can be examined in three topics: family factor, educational system, social patterns. Although the male Sovereign Society has been tried to be ignored, in fact, men as much as women are victims of this distorted system. For this reason, overcoming the perspective of a male dominant society will raise the standards of men as well as women. By informing on violence, bringing measures, there has only been a public awareness; it has been spread through the media. Work has been done in many ways, but there is no positive improvement because there's something missing to solve the problem. Law number 6284 is in effect to fight violence. However, the infrastructure to support the implementation of the law in accordance with its purpose has not yet been established. Anti-violence monitoring centres were not established nationwide, nor were the regulations adopted. Violence against a woman who is a social problem can only be ended by implementing a stable state policy. Absence and pressure are important in the emergence of violence. With low income levels, stress and limited resources increase the risk of violence. Violence, unemployment, or prestige are more dramatic among those who work in low jobs. The boned cultural properties that exist in all society are difficult to change, but not impossible, since they are strengthened by subculture of professions in combat of violence. Both women and women themselves and judges must be urged to deliver educational and conscious messages, and the fight against this violence with intensive course and media support should be done more effectively. The civilized society will rise on the shoulders of men and women and will move into the future. When approached by this consciousness, the location of both sexes, especially women, and their activities, equipment, and needs, will become more important and more valuable in society. The nations who grasp and embrace this truth and fully fulfill it will not only build their own future but also have a say in the futures of other nations. There is much more to be said, much more to be done about violence in our country, which lives deeply in the traces of individual and social violence. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The violence our women face is one of our country's most painful and permanent problems. Each year, hundreds of our women are victims of blind violence and lose their lives. Tens of thousands of incidents of violence have occurred among our women who have been killed, as well as the official authorities. In order to prevent this violence, laws were passed, international contracts were signed, but social mentality and the mistakes in practice failed to improve the fight against violence, increasing the violence that our women were subjected to. In order to end violence against our women and women's murders, a decisive battle strategy and a determined will must be displayed to break the social mentality patterns. Therefore, in order to determine the problems and measures necessary for the murder of women living in our country, we propose the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 19/11/2014 [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Zonguldak]] 11) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] 12) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 19) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 20) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 21) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] Our country has signed the "Agreement of the Council of Europe to Avoid Violence and Domestic Violence Against Women" (The Treaty of Istanbul) and the "International Convention of Dissension Against Women" (UN) and "The Law for Protection of Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women." Under such agreements, the entity states are obliged to "protect women from all violence, prevent domestic violence, prosecute and eliminate them." However, due to the failures of Article 6284 in fulfilling the obligations of international contracts and implementing Law 6284, however, our women were not provided with sufficient security umbrellas and our women's violence were not prevented from being killed. Women and women who have been victims of the murders and victims of violence are often victims of domestic violence. Because of domestic violence, individual and social disorders can arise, causing a violent spiral to be born, resulting in the fact that future generations are prone to violence and become a social threat. In this regard, the fight against the violence that our women are subjected to needs to be sustained without compromise. However, some public officials are viewed as a family matter, where they are not determined enough to fight. On the other hand, some public officials are reluctant to deal with traditional, social mentality patterns, one of the most important factors in violence. However, the other country's practices have shown that the most important challenge to prevent violence against women is the struggle against social mentality patterns. In fact, international contracts with our signatures make signatories mandatory to fight gender roles and gender patterns. The twisted social perception that women are second-rate and not equal to men is the most fundamental deterrent of the violence that our women are subjected to. It is not possible to prevent violence against women without being challenged by this distorted perception. It is the public's duty to take the main precaution and implement laws on this matter. However, the concept of gender equality by public authorities is not highlighted enough and is not sufficiently active in fighting violence. For reasons stated above, we believe it would be appropriate to investigate violence against women and the murder of women and to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures taken by our Supreme Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The punishment mechanism, which leads to the systematic continuation of violence against women, is a key role in continuing violence against women, as well as in failing to meet the demand for justice of the victims. Eril mentality thus reproduces itself through a legal system that can continue. Therefore, in order to determine legal reforms in accordance with the principles set by the Istanbul Convention in order to address the phenomenon of non-criminal violence against women through cases in Turkey, in order to prevent punishment, we make it necessary for the opening of parliamentary investigations under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Interior Charter. [[İstanbul]] [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] 4) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 8) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) Abdullah Levent Tüzel [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Şırnak]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey could be found to be far behind in its violent fight against a woman on the occasion of the fight against Violence Against Women on November 25th. In the Istanbul Convention, where Turkey is a signator, the most recent definition of sexual violence described in the Declaration of Nonviolent Violence on Women of the United Nations has been discussed in a way that describes the responsibilities and duties of the state. The most terrifying aspect of sexual violence and assault, of course, is the murder of women. Although some laws have been reformed, women are killed and subjected to sexual violence. The problem is based on the fundamentality of the man's mentality, which has led to this systematic massacre, although the law has changed. So unless there is a struggle to transform a mindset against total manliness, the legal changes are unfortunately inadequate. When we look at international legal texts, court decisions, convictions, they offer important tools to combat sexual violence. In addition to the EU Convention on Human Rights, the Opuz and Thanksgiving Aydın EİHM decisions that recognise sexual violence and condemn Turkey are the most prominent of these texts. Similarly, the law on prevention of violence is enforced in the internal law, including the 102th Article, Article 103, and Article 104, which includes the regulation of sexual assault in the TCK. Despite all these regulations and punishment mechanisms, however, the most important factor in the continuation of the problem is in punishment. In international law and the Istanbul Convention, it is written in detail how to investigate violence and sexual assault against women, how to conduct the investigation and then repair mechanisms. In Turkey, the lack of punishment begins with the prosecution's investigation. The prosecution's indictments have ruled that she should apply after a period of time, for reasons with which there is no clear evidence, where there is no personal comment. However, the original position of a woman who has been exposed to sexual violence is not considered in any way in the Turkish legal system. Experts also monitor non-criminal practices against women, the perp-focused investigative system of investigation and speech also points to the existence of many obstacles such as taking the testimony of women who have been abused and traumatized men who are not experts, benefiting from counseling, not receiving reports of physical and mental health, and recommending reconciliation to the parties. In the courtrooms, this approach is another problem that leads to incursion in the victim's privacy, constantly confronting the perpetrator, and the decision to be acquitted based on traditional patterns leads to punishment. In the punishment section, there are problems such as the release of an acquittal, the absence of a punishment proportional to action, the execution of a very small part of the prison sentence. The lack of a special execution regime and assurance of sexual assault in judicial processes is the biggest problem. In a nutshell, the absence of protection of the victim and his relatives, the length of trial, the absence of respect for the victim's statements, the absence of psychological findings as evidence, the execution of forms of punishment, the lack of punishment in cases of violence against women. Thus, the punishment mechanism plays an important role in continuing violence against women while causing the victims' demand for justice not being met. Eril mentality reproduces itself through a legal system so that it can continue. Therefore, we propose that a research commission be set up to determine legal reforms that must be done according to the perspective of gender equality, according to the principles set by the Istanbul Convention, in order to address the phenomenon of violence against women through cases in Turkey, in order to prevent punishment. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to assess the practices of services to prevent violence against women, to determine their shortcomings, to determine solution proposals and priorities in accordance with the findings, we respectfully submit the Constitution's 98th Article of the Constitution, under Article 104 and 105. 1) Gökcen Özdoğan Enç [[Antalya]] 2) Mine Leuk White [[Diyarbakır]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 5) Sevde Bayazut flees [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Van]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 8) Abu Bekir Secreter [[Nevşehir]] [[Yozgat]] [[Church]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Elizipt]] [[Erzincan]] [[Rize]] 16) Tofik Ziyaeddin Akbulut [[Tekirdağ]] 17) Ahmet Haldun Erturk [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Çanrı]] [[Bingöl]] [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] [[Nevşehir]] [[Osmaniye]] [[Burdur]] [[Bartin]] Violence against women by the United Nations (UN) Declaration of Avoidance of Violence Against Women is described as "a sexual, sexual, psychological pain, or painful act based on sex abuse against women, or by threatening them with such acts, forced or arbitrary freedom." Violence is a serious human rights violation that is a major obstacle to people's use of their basic rights and freedoms, no matter where they are in the world. In particular, violence that can demonstrate itself physically, psychologically, sexually, and economically towards women is one of Turkey's most recent problems, as is the common problem of all developed and developing countries. In our country, many concrete policies and regulations have been implemented by the fact that women are the main source of social dynamics leading society forward. In the 2005 New Turkish Penal Code, many of the crimes she was victims of were taken out of the scope of crimes against the community and charged with crimes against individuals, which were aggravated. In addition, it has been decreed that the perpetrators of the ritual killings will be sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment, which is the harshest sentence in the law. The Parliamentary Research Commission, established in 2005 to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the causes of violence against women and children and the murders of decency. In parallel with this, the Prime Minister's General Assembly of 2006/17 has taken effect on "Courts to prevent the Murders of Nature and Honour with Violence Against Children and Women." The first country signed in Istanbul on 24 November 2011, with a first and binding capacity for women's violence was Turkey, which approved the Council of Europe's Convention on Anti-Responsibility and Responsibility to Women's Violence. Again, on March 8, 2012, "The Law Against Family Protection and Violence Against Women" was adopted at TBMM. In this scope, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has established violent prevention and monitoring centers, which operate on the basis of 24/7, providing support and services to prevent violence and effective implementation of preventive and preventive measures. In 2012, the National Action Plan for Fighting Violence Against Women (2012-2015) took effect. The National Action Plan for Fighting Violence Against Women (2012-2015) has been drafted by all concerned institutions and organizations, including the "Protective Violence Against Women" and the measures in the "Progressing Violence and Domestic Violence Against Women" and the Council of Europe Convention on Fighting These." Although many legal arrangements have been made and measures have been taken, the phenomenon of violence remains a bleeding wound of society and the need to be investigated for reasons why it has still failed to reach the desired level at the point of violence against women and the reduction of women's murders. In this context, we respectfully submit to the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Article 98, Article 104, Article 105, Article 105 and Article 105 of the Turkish National Assembly, to assess the practices of services against women, to determine their shortcomings, to determine solution proposals and priorities in accordance with the findings. It has been presented to your knowledge. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups and the first signator in the motions, or to another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. I now read the names of the members of the following members: Minister of Family and Social Policy Ayşenur Islam on behalf of the government; on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, on behalf of Sedef Küçük, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group Sebahat Tunnel, on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group Ali Öz, Mihrimah Belma Line on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; on behalf of the proposals, Binnaz Ork, Pervin Buldan, Rutal Demirel, Gökcen Özdoğan Enç will speak. Now on behalf of the government, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Ayşenur will speak for Islam. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0041par0825	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our government for the motion to investigate the violence against the woman. I salute you all. Before I begin my words on the matter, I wish the teacher's day to all the teachers in our country, my greetings and my love to them all. Mr. President, strengthening women in a society is one of the most effective ways to reduce poverty in all societies and cultures, strengthen social capital and raise the family's welfare to high levels. As a country, we have been doing a lot of work, especially in the last 12 years, to ensure the active participation of our women in social life by following policies that have brought people into the center. From a holistic point of view, we've made a lot of arrangements that are needed to address women, family, society, economic order, social structure, and encourage our women to take more public space, and we continue to do so. Violence against women is part of social violence, part of domestic violence, and unfortunately there is a problem in Turkey, all over the world. It's a problem that all the countries of the world and we have to deal with so much right now. Two months ago, we went to Rome to attend a meeting on the world scale of the Istanbul Convention. Studies on the issue have been evaluated there, and according to the relevant authorities, violence against women has been directed from three women to one in the countries of the European Union, according to recent research. I want to say that there is domestic violence, domestic violence all over the world, east, west, south, and north, and, of course, violence against the woman who is a part of it, unfortunately, and we are forced to fight it fiercely. The eradication of violence is possible, but of course, with a holistic approach to the collective and decisive struggle of all segments of society. In the work conducted in this framework, it is very important that interdisciplinary approach and many institutions and institutions are involved in the process with policy-making, implementation and monitoring dimensions. I'd say we've continued our work in four phases as part of the fight against violence against the woman. First of all, it's legislation, which we're all doing here. Second, don't increase education and awareness. Another is to ensure co-operation and co-ordination between institutions, and finally, to strengthen institutional mechanisms for the protection, support of women victims of violence. The work under these titles, of course, has to be carried out in a wide range, with the comprehensive co-operation and co-ordination of all parties and their joint position. That's what we're trying to accomplish. The regulations made over the past 12 years have tried to strengthen the principle of equality of women's and men's opportunities, especially the Constitution. In the first place, the Constitution, then the Civil Law, then the Labour Law, and the Turkish Penal Code, has been tried to establish a structure in Turkey that monitors the principle of equality of men and women and tolerates zero tolerance for violence against women. During the European Council of Europe's term presidency, the Convention on the Council of Europe for the Protection of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women, also referred to as the Istanbul Convention for signing in İstanbul, and the Council of Europe's Convention on Fighting These, signed by you valued MPs in 2011, and entered into force. This agreement, considered a crucial step in the fight against violence against the woman, has not yet been implemented on the scale of the world -- you know, its date is 2014, so in this year -- starting in 2011, our government has adopted this Convention, and has tried to apply the articles of this Charter. The best example of this is the Protection of the Family and the Protection of Violence Against Women in 2012. Again, this law was adopted by all of us in Parliament -- if I remember correctly -- and it came into effect. As a country, of course, we are all aware that the fight against violence against women requires a comprehensive, co-directional and holistic approach, and we act with that consciousness. In this framework, we implement an action plan that covers 2012-2015 years of fighting violence against women. It is also important to improve the fight against violence against women, to increase awareness and sensitivity of the subject as much as legal regulations and institutional mechanisms, and to provide social awareness. Another issue in fighting violence is taking protective measures against the victims, as you all know. We have women's guesthouses in our country to protect and support women who are victims of violence. As of today, there are 95 of our Ministry, 33 of local governments, three women's guesthouses belonging to NGOs, and a total of 131 women's guesthouses have about 3,400 capacity. We're constantly reinforcing ourselves on this, constantly strengthening ourselves. This capacity right now is a capacity to respond to the needs of our country, but let's say that we need anything in any province, any way, from the moment we figure out this need, we have the capacity to open new women's guesthouses within a day or two. Violence prevention and monitoring centres established under the Law on Protection of Family 6284 and Avoiding Violence Against Women are currently serving in 14 provinces. WE are doing new work to make sure that the WHOM are able to carry out their services more effectively, and we are conducting a project about this -- if there is time, hopefully -- if there is time. IN THIS pilot app, we are doing some work in order to make SUNIMINS, which are currently open in 14 provinces, more effective, more comprehensive, more capable. And as soon as we're in all our cities, sometimes one, sometimes more than one, we go on with our services. We have training programs to prevent violence against women. Part of our training programs are related to the family education program, and we're doing it to our people in all our centers. On the other hand, we do protocols to prevent violence against women -- education with public institutions and organizations. To that end, we have training protocols signed with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the President of the Religious Affairs. According to August 2014 figures, we have passed 71,000 police, 65,000 medical staff, 21,000 religious officials through these trainings. With the participation of 336 family court judges and the republic's prosecutors, we also conducted various seminars. We started this year's training programs in September. Our numbers are way above that right now. Once the training is complete, we'll share with you again what numbers we've reached at the end of this year. In 2008, we began to update the study of violence, domestic violence against women in Turkey, which was considered as part of the official statistical programme, and we are studying the 2014 version. Our work has reached the final stage. In December, hopefully, we'll share with you the results of this study. On the other hand, I'd like to share with you the study of impact analysis on the application of Law 6284. Many of you have heard the reasons for the research proposals but are they working well? They were one of the questions. So we've seen this question here a long time before we discussed it here today, actually, and we're working on an impact analysis of these laws. ▪ Are we able to apply the laws that we have passed well, apply them correctly, have we been having practical problems, or have we left the law open, do we have points to go forward, to stay behind? Should new studies be done? We will, hopefully, complete the matter by the end of this year. We have a major and comprehensive work called the Family Anti-violence Project, which has been conducted by our ministry. This study is a project for development, education and cooperation in developing the institutional capacity of all concerned parties operating in terms of domestic violence. There's a lot of work that we're doing, as well as the summations I've made upstairs. We have studies with the NGOs, studies on awareness, training, prevention studies, creating consciousness, transformation of mentality. We're doing most of these with various public institutions, with NGOs, and we'd like to announce to you that we're going to continue all the work on this matter with determination. Other than that, we have a lot of different programs and studies that are not directly related to the prevention of violence, but at the point of preventing violence, I'd like to mention to them very briefly. In recent years, we have had very positive developments in the indicators of women's health and especially reproductive health in our country. The prevention of mother deaths and prenatal care in this context are among our primary goals. We are one of the world's model countries, among the top 10 countries, due to the trend in mother deaths from 1990 to 2008. We provide conditional health care and maternity benefits to our mothers in order to ensure that this policy is sustainable. On the other hand, we're making conditional cash transfers so that our mothers can get their children to study well, so that their 0-6-year-old children can do health checks. There's one thing we've been focusing on in these conditional cash transfers -- it's definitely for women, and the rate of help for girls is always higher, higher than the amount of help for boys. In the field of education, there are campaigns that we run, especially for girls' schooling. Thanks to this campaign and support, the gap of education between girls and boys has closed the gap of education that has lasted so many years, it's about to close. Our goal is 100 percent of the girls' education, and we're doing everything we can to help. As a country, we care deeply about her employment, her participation in the workforce, and we think it's a part of the fight against violence, domestic violence, indirectly against women. In recent years, we have made a set of adjustments to harmonisation of family and business in the area of pregnancy, birth and milk permits in favour of mother and child. It's very important for us to strengthen women's socioeconomic positions, to adapt business and family life, to employ women. For example, they don't collect taxes from homes and commercial products anymore. The debt of birth by Law 6552 has been raised from two to three. Women working in home services were allowed to be covered in social security. In 2010, we changed the Heavy and Dangerous Law and prepared a new regulation that many businesses are now available for women. Thus, we have eliminated restrictions on the employment of women and young people. We've granted the pregnant and giving birth officers exemptions for seizures, tours, night shifts. We've put a monthly contract on women whose wife passed away in an official marriage with no social security, and more than 280,000 of our women are taking advantage of it today. That's the kind of support we have for women whose son goes into the army. When women who work lose part of their workforce, only 10 percent of their workforce is lost, they can now receive a monthly period of constant incapacity. In the event of the death of working women, their wives and children can benefit from their salaries. If they are married, the girls who receive a monthly death sentence can receive the two-year salary of this death month in advance. There's serious support for her employment. We have very serious support for our women who want to have a job. We did all this to strengthen the woman in our country, and we keep doing it. To strengthen her means to strengthen society. To strengthen her means to strengthen the family. Maybe our friends will talk here in a little while. We're getting some criticism from you that we're putting the family first, that she's in the background a little bit. Since I won't be able to speak again, I'd like to answer these criticisms in advance. Trying to strengthen the family doesn't mean putting a woman in the background. To strengthen a woman as an individual is a separate program, a separate program to strengthen the community by keeping the family strong. They're not opposites, they're opposites, they're not policies, one doesn't eliminate the other. We're a government trying to implement both policies in a strong way. As long as women are strong, there will be strong and good families in this society. Yes, we care about the family and the strong family structure, but we never neglect her. There's only one saying that we neglected her, it's a fact, unfortunately, it's not. My dear friends, all my fellow lawmakers, friends we work with under the same roof, and I have a proposition for you: our world views may be different, we may be looking at the world from different windows; what matters is what we look at from different windows, which is what we look at. I propose that we work together on women's matters, especially social violence, domestic violence, and violence against women. Let's stop beating each other up. You said it, I said it... let's give it up.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0042par0849	You started it first.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0041par0850	Let's work together, join forces, form a synergy, and start with our country, hopefully, to set an example for other countries, and try to remove it. You'll do your reviews when you get here, but while you're doing these reviews, I'd like to ask you to say a few sentences to the solution. For the solution, I extend my hand to you as Minister of Family and Social Policy of the Republic of Turkey, and do not turn my hand back empty-handed; I beg you. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) You and all our NGOs. We had an incident yesterday, and, you know, it's in the papers today. When I was giving a speech, a friend of mine interrupted me in a very rude way, which is a rude thing to do.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0043par0853	That was very rude of you, too.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0041par0854	Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm gonna say, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0043par0856	Please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0041par0857	Mr. President, may I have a moment?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0044par0858	Let's give our MPs a minute, if that's okay.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0045par0859	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0046par0860	That'll be fine, that'll be fine.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0044par0861	But it's only for the Minister, all right? Deal. Let's give him one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0047par0864	The way I was treated was extremely rude, but if you've noticed, I've warned my friend who had interfered with this rudeness from the stand, so please, be kind. Yeah, I found out later that my promise wasn't taken very well, and that our friend was treated with no courtesy.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0048par0866	Unfortunately... unfortunately...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0047par0867	They're both wrong. I want us to fix all these mistakes, treat each other with kindness, act in good faith, and focus on solving the problem. Now, I would like to address those friends here: the door of our ministry is open to all our NGOs, all of our solutions. That's where I promised I'd listen to them. I'll invite them as soon as I can, and I'll talk to them, and so will you. As long as we try to build something, as long as we try to build something. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit01spe0049par0872	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume our discussion of motions to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating violence against the woman. The government is here. In order to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Mr. Sedef Küçük. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0050par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party in favour of a parliamentary inquiry motion issued by all political parties regarding violence against the woman. I salute all our dear teachers and your grand delegation, whose days we celebrated yesterday. Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, in our country, the concepts of women and violence, women and murder are now very often at hand. For example, in the past October, 29 women were brutally cut off from life by their wives, lovers, fathers, or relatives. Every year hundreds of women face the fate of 29 women in villages, towns, cities. And some of these women get killed when they're demanding forensic protection. I mean, women resort to the judicial authorities saying they're being violent, concerned about their lives, and yet they're being murdered. All of these murders and the number of unsolved violent incidents indicate that something clear and obvious is not going well. We've signed international contracts to prevent this blind violence, we've made laws, we've made regulations, but we haven't made any progress. Because the problems with the application have not been overcome. Because it wasn't inoculated. As a matter of fact, in the EU 2014 Progress Report, the implementation of the implementation of the law, the opening of some provisions and the number of staff interested in domestic violence have sparked criticism of its competence and education. For example, there is a decree from our Parliament that the family we share with a very rare understanding of is to establish the protection and prevention of violence against women and to establish the establishment of anti-violence centers in the Law. However, the necessary arrangements have not been implemented. Again, there has been no regulation on operating such centres, no staff assignments completed, no training for appointed personnel, even though the EU Report is necessary in relation to the prevention centers. It's all accurate. Well, then why is it like this? Because the distorted social perception of women being second class is not confronting and not being fought. There are explanations that will feed this distorted perception, as it has not been dealt with. I mean, it's a total recklessness. This insensitivity about violence is also in the judiciary. I'd like to give you an example of what I think is still in your memories. I'm sure you still remember that a woman was brutally beaten by the police at the police station in İzmir. Do you know what happened in Izmir, when the police were tried for beating that woman so badly? The prosecutor demanded a year and a month in prison for two violent police officers. For the woman who was beaten, the same prosecutor demanded eight years and nine months for insulting the police. This is justice in our country! We've always demanded that violent punishments be brought to a deterrent level. In this instance, there is indeed a deterrent punishment, but this punishment was given to the woman for insulting the police, not the cops who brutally beat her. So that's what the cops who represent public power are gonna get if they beat a woman to death and put her in the hospital for a year. If this punishment is a deterrent to you, then I want you to know that we're beating water in the air here today, and it's a dream that we're making progress on this, and I'm sure that if these images hadn't been reflected in the press again, this case wouldn't have even been open, and it would have been covered up like in hundreds of cases. Dear lawmakers, no matter what geography women are in, they're only being abused because they're women, so they're being killed for it, and they're being so cheap. See, according to their research on women and 20,000 women who were victims of violence of Compassion Der, the reasons for not closing the curtain enough, not brewing the tea well enough, the phone always ringing busy, opening Facebook or Twitter profiles, or getting fat may be an excuse for violence against women. In fact, even the fact that the football team he hired was defeated that day could be put forward as an excuse. Of course they're excuses. The facts beneath these excuses are far more cruel. A mindset based on the idea that a woman cannot be equal to men and that a woman submits to a man causes women to live in the fear of pigeons in this country. A total struggle with this mentality is essential. You don't have the luxury of hiding behind any motive. For neither religious nor social nor any other reason, a mindset that ignores or excludes a woman cannot be justified by anyone. The International Convention on Avoiding All Sort of Segregation Against Women, prohibits direct and indirect, intentional and involuntary discrimination against women; it demands real equality, not just legal and formal equality. If we have a signature under this contract, it's the debt of all of us to make an effort to fulfill this signature, but most of all, it's the debt of those who run this country. It is not for you to postpone it, nor to cover it with other reasons. You do not have the luxury of allowing progress in the field of law to be squandered in the hands of enforcers. Let's take this parliamentary research commission we've come to terms with for the establishment. What took you so long? Dozens of proposals were made during the 24th Legislature, and the issue was raised by the opposition in each woman's murder. Not only did we tell you, NGOs knocked on your door, but at least they asked for a commission to increase social sensitivity. Finally, such a commission was approved eight months before the end of the term. If only it had been so much earlier, if only it had been before the death of Tugba, who was killed at the age of 17 last week when she was just three months pregnant. However, let's not be misunderstood, we consider the fact that such a commission has been established late as a very valuable step as the Republican People's Party. I wish all of the ruling party's deputies would listen to it as a full staff on such an important day as this. And we thank all the parties that contribute to it. We thank all female NGOs who forced Congress to take action on this matter. I've said it over and over again from the stand that the issue of women's murders and preventing violence against women is a matter of policy over us. We, the Republican People's Party, support and continue to support every arrangement to prevent these blind violence that our women are subjected to and, unfortunately, the daily routine of women's murders, and we will continue to cooperate with everyone and continue to do so. It's about us being deterrents of punishment. Let's fight the social mentality of the sex. We're always there for everyone who says, "Let's do it." We're supporters of any initiative that will increase women's employment rate. Women and men can't be equal, men and women are contrary. We will continue our struggle until men and women have equal rights because we believe that there is equality in man's extremism. (HPP) In this country, we say no beatings, no persecution in the outside of being a woman; we want no death in the physique of this country; in rights and opportunities, in law and in practice, we want equality in every aspect of life; in this country, we want women to be seen as first class because we believe that a country will not be a civilized country unless men are equal. Dear lawmakers, in a country where women have such problems, there are two options for administrators: they will either manage the situation or they will solve the problem. Leaving problems in drag, ignoring them like there's no problem, that's burying heads in the sand. Unfortunately, when you bury your head in the sand or when you don't let people talk about violence against women, when you scold them, when you throw them out, the problems don't go away. For example, women in this country have a very serious employment problem. When the criteria for OECD countries, EU countries, Eurasia countries, whatever group of countries are taken, Turkey is always at the end. As you know, women's participation in the labour force is only 31 per cent, while women's employment population is 26 per cent. Even ten years later, it is estimated that only 38 per cent will be available. The European Union average, despite all the crises, is now 70 percent. There are positive steps, but we're so far behind, we can't keep up. We can't solve problems without our women in the labor force, nor can we save our country from the trap of middle income. It's not just the labor, it's the education, it's the country. According to the Global Gender Cliff 2014 Report, our country has only been ranked one of 142 countries in the women's education ranking. With this training performance, it's a dream to expect any progress. All of this is proportional to the fact that our women are subjected to violence. Because economic addiction and lack of education push women more into gender patterns. A woman can be more independent than she is in working life. As women's education levels rise, they may have the chance to step aside from the identity imposed on them. It's a very important power. A woman who is educated and financially strengthened is growing aware of all the inequalities that exist in society, especially in her own discrimination, and is able to resist any injustice, not just against her own injustice. That's what scares some the most. That's why women are asked to sit in their homes, take care of the child, to make an acceptable wife, because the independent woman is a freeing society. Those who do not tolerate the free society have no patience for women who act out of their roles. That's why a mayor has the nerve to say, "I won't employ women in the municipality, according to our customs and customs." That's why someone has come out and broken the family union in Turkey. Therefore, is it not enough for one of the women who complains about unemployment? That's why someone can't even talk about equality in any field, let alone gender equality. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I mentioned in the beginning, there is a major mental problem that needs to be overcome. It is essential that the law, the custom, the tradition, should be fought by a strong will, not by such evasive words or by ignoring it. Because this second-rate mentality and this twisted perception of women are a key factor in the violence that our women are exposed to. It can be said that violence for a woman is in every society that is left behind with its easternness, its richness, its poorness, its development. It is said that it has historical, sociological, anthropological reasons. It is not a problem that can be solved from today to tomorrow. These arguments, however justified, cannot be an excuse not to fight the violence of women. Of course, violence is multi-dimensional, of course, a total struggle is required, but there's nothing tying your hand. If quadrillions can be spent on illegal palaces, they can also be invested in the struggle, and if municipalities can find financial power to change sidewalks every six months, then they have financial power to open shelters. The problem is not financial, but mental; the problem is that you can't approach the issue with women; the problem is that you can't say "woman" or "woman" or "woman" or "woman." Dear lawmakers, we need to see how the struggle for women's rights that began to rise in the 80s changed some communities. We need to see how much these societies break gender patterns, how thin they thin the glass ceilings, how much women strengthen their place in society. How women's share in the labor force grew around here, how education equality was achieved, how much progress there is in women's political representation, here, we need to imitate them. And as we create a healthier, more egalitarian society where women do not benefit from all of these developments, we need to show everyone that the entire society has won as long as the will is established, otherwise it's very easy to justify, but the work of this Assembly and the government is not just to produce a motive, it's to produce solutions. I hope that this step here today and the will of the House, put in the middle, touches life and takes us one step further to find a solution. Mr. President, it is impossible for us to achieve equality in a Turkey where our women are excluded from social and economic life and ignored. We can't make progress in equality without breaking the understanding that women are only a good housewife, a good wife, and a good mother as long as they're acceptable. In order for this understanding to be broken, women have to be involved in business; they have to be part of social life; they have to contribute to the world of science; but in order for them to happen, they have to be opened; in politics, their representations and weights must be increased; and in order to do so, gender quotas must be set. Dear lawmakers, if we don't create a society of equal rights, equal rights with men and women, we're not going to get anywhere; we can't get justice, we can't get peace, we can't get full human rights, we can't get democracy, we can't get development. The real problem for this country is not just women's violence or women's murders; it's actually an election situation, a choice between the Middle Ages and the modern world, and we have to be a part of this election, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0051par0024	Thank you. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0052par0028	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group. I salute you all. We've spoken on this stand many times about preventing violence against women, and we've passed many laws. We also took out the Istanbul Convention that both the Minister and our congressman friend told us about, but there is still violence against her, and we couldn't prevent it. There's a reason for that, so there's still so much law being passed, and if there's a reason for that, there's a reason for that, we have to evaluate it. Dear friends, the main reason for this is that you don't mentally believe in equality between men and women, and you don't judge society by that, you have to redo traditional roles every day. Just now, Mr. Secretary has mentioned the most education here, I don't know how many people have been trained, but my recommendation to the Minister is to give this training to the Minister, then to the Prime Minister, and then to the ministers and MPs, especially to the President, and then to the President, Brent Arinc. The language produced, this policy produced, sexist politics, and this approach that produces these sexist roles every day are a subject that underlines why violence against women has not been prevented and why it has increased. Again, dear friends, we traditionally faced a policy that we women should always be silenced, that we women should never, in fact, interfere with the man's work with the dough of our hands, that we should be pushed out of social life, and that we should always be silenced. Sometimes women do it against each other, unfortunately. Just a moment ago, Mr. Secretary stated on this stand that yesterday's incident was not good, that he did not approve of it, but he did not apologize. So, in fact, that woman friend of ours may have raised her hand to speak her words, but we know how this kindness was perceived by the security forces, even though it was asked to be gently removed. Hence, the ground has been laid upon their rudeness. In that sense, in fact, these traditional approaches in society are being carried out in Parliament in some way, as well as here. I've said a sentence in a previous speech, and I'll say it again: our home is Anatolia, the House is full of fathers. So, according to the male dominant system, it's being manipulated, manipulated, driven according to the mentality. So, unfortunately, we can't be prevented from violence against the woman. But, my dear friends, we women don't want to talk about women's violence and women's persecution. There's something else going on here, and there are women who resist it, and there are women who fight against it. Thousands of women are on the street today. We'd like to greet women from here, especially in Pirsus, or Suruç, all over Turkey. Since they do not accept this male dominant mentality, another life is possible. They are on the streets because they advocate peace against war, a liberal life against male dominant mentality. Dear friends, in this sense, I salute from here once again all the women who resist, fight, lead, and say, there is hope. Hope is about women not accepting that mentality, resisting and struggling. Dear friends, we've talked a lot about the Istanbul Convention on this bench. Yes, we signed the Istanbul Convention here. The Council of Europe Convention on Women Violence and Avoiding Domestic Violence and Fighting These Things, that's what it's really called. This contract actually has very important definitions. These definitions are: ▪ Knowing that the fulfillment of legal and actual equality between men and women is a key factor in preventing violence against women; Knowing that violence against women is an embodiment of the power relationship between men and women, which leads to discrimination against women and prevents women from making full progress, and is historically non-equalizing between men and women; Knowing that violence against women is one of the basic social mechanisms that force women into secondary positions compared to violence based on gender-based violence, and this violence is one of the main social mechanisms that force women into secondary positions compared to men; Given the concern that women and girls are often exposed to many levels of violence, which seriously violate human rights, such as domestic violence, sexual harassment, rape, forced marriage, so-called murder in the name of fucking namus, women's circumcision, and create a major barrier to equality of women and women, There is a continuation of human rights violations that affect civilians during the armed conflict, especially women in the form of systematic rape and sexual crimes, as well as the potential for social gender-based violence that climbs both during and after the conflict. In fact, this contract makes it very clear exactly what we need to do. Dear friends, there are two aspects of violence against women, and I want to talk about it here. One of them is violence from the male dominant system, which our friends actually talked about. The second is the violence of women because of war. We felt that the violence of women because of the war was so close, so close to our borders. In the attack of ISIS gangs against oppressed women, we have seen how terrible the war actually was, how women were considered a trophy in wars, and as a war policy for women, sexual harassment, rape was very hot. So, in this Parliament, 1.5 million people came from the city of Syria, which, in fact, was very proud of the women of Ezidi or Turkey. We are helping them. Behind such rhetorics, we need to draw attention to the victims of women and children in particular, the situation in the camps. Again, the problems with women who live in villages that escape from the war because of the Kobani resistance, the ISIS brutality... I mean, war is not just about sexual assault, it's also about forced migration, it's about poverty, it's about being open to all sorts of things of violence. So we women, in fact, have to wage a strong fight against war policies. We, as a women's delegation, had friends of Melda Onur of the CHP before the ISIS attacks began in September -- 26 women went to south Kurdistan, where we visited camps to draw attention to the problems that women experienced. Again, we went to the Canton from Rojava. Actually, we presented a very important report. The women there had demands, expectations of Turkey -- if there really is solidarity -- that they would understand themselves correctly, that the war would end, and that they would return to their own country. I, once again, actually, think it's important to have a study of women, children, who, once again, have been replaced by a women's commission from this parliament, to the opposition from their power, to the women's commission from all women's women's. Dear friends, another subject is violence against the woman we've always talked about so much. For years, the feminists said the area was political. For years, we have been imposed on: "He is his wife; he beats and loves, but there is no discussion among the family. " In fact, we learned that the private area is political because of the struggle of women, because of the struggle of the feminist women that the president dislikes. Now, to prioritize this family concept, the Minister said, "Why do you call us family?," he said. That's right, if you make the family sacred, if you put the traditional family in front of us as a model, you can't actually stop the violence against the woman. We propose once again that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should change, that the Ministry of Social Policy should only be the Ministry of Social Policy, and that Ms. Ayşenur should only do the Ministry of Social Policy. What is the status of women in social policies, let it be discussed that women take equal advantage of these matters, but a women's ministry will deal with women's problems, prevent violence against women, and only work for women. And -- and he said that all those legislation reviews -- there's got to be a law here that's going to take all the laws of equality into consideration. In that regard, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy must establish a ministry called the Ministry of Social Policy, the Women's Ministry. Dear friends, there have been some very important decisions made here, for example, about preventing violence against women, and we have our signature. We have 14 motions as a Democratic Society Party -- our party has been shut down -- during the Peace and Democracy Party period, and now as the People's Democratic Party -- it's important that we have 14 proposals, separately, unspoken, spoken today. However, we find it especially important to express women's demands here. Dear friends, the declaration of the results of the 17th Women's Shelters and Solidarity Centres has been announced in Diyarbakır. Mr. Secretary can access that, and our other congressman friends can. It took place on October 25-26-27, with six women's organisations and nearly 200 delegates. Why can't violence against women be prevented? There are serious answers to the question. They have demands: One of them is that women don't need the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, they need the women's ministry to make policy for them. I mean, their demand is actually the same as what we just said. It's important that the women's ministry is established and that all ministries take into account laws from the women's ministry and produce policies that will satisfy the inequality. Second: Women who are exposed to violence, who are trying to avoid violence, should have access to access to psychological, social, and legal support outside the bunker. Now, Mr. Secretary has expressed, I have 14 B.C.I.S. In fact, now in places that are over 100,000 by law, municipalities have to open shelters, they don't open them. There is a problem with this: The municipality does not cover the budget when you give its obligation to the municipality. So, in fact, shelters must be opened with a budget that the public must meet or afford by the municipality; shelters must be opened wherever women can reach. It's still not done. Mr. Secretary just said, "It's enough, there's nothing wrong with it." On the contrary, there's a lot of problems. Second: Dear friends, the women who are taken into these SUNIMs or shelters are quickly reached by their wives, lovers, or violent ones. So, when information should not be shared by other units, for example, they can't be prevented because of e-government application or practices at Social Security. Women have been killed by 25 women, and more women could have been killed by now. This must be taken into account. Again, the workers of the CSI, dear friends, women, have no perspective; they do not believe in equality between women and men, so they are not people who understand women's problems well enough. That's what's causing a lot of trouble for women there. Again, there is information that men serve in the SUN. Actually, it's a very bad situation. In fact, it is easier to reach women; through men, women are very easy to reach. Again, dear friends, there is a very important clause in the Istanbul Convention in case there is no mediation, but the mediation system was brought in during the AKP administration. With the religious protocol and the divorce ombudsmanship, the practice of public supervision, they negotiated by the state's hand. I mean, it's very interesting. Now, that's your wife, and she'll beat you and she'll love you. So, what, you have children, go home. It's been initiated through protocol signed by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, with the Ministry of Religious Affairs. So, we would like this protocol to be terminated immediately, and in fact, this intermediary issue to be eliminated. That's why there's a reduced sentence, a compromise, a woman giving up punishment. Again, one of the obligations of the Istanbul Convention is to create policies to prevent, protect, prosecute, and create support mechanisms for women in the fight against men's violence, as an obligation to the state. It's not enough that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy alone is working on this. Mr. Secretary just said: "I'm reaching out to you." Mr. Secretary, of course, we hold the hand that extends, but so far, especially since you're Minister, let alone working with NGOs, you haven't met women here in Parliament. Let's get together and work together. Women's politics, of course, is a political policy, so let's work together. For example, a meeting with these women... what is your policy, what is your point of view, how should we associate it? You didn't, and there were times when you wouldn't even take our calls, let alone that, and there were times when we couldn't reach out to celebrate. So you don't have a very accessible, very accessible Ministry. Let the women come and tell them their troubles... and when they raise their hand to tell them, they're already pulled out of the thing in no time. Again, dear friends, of course the women's shelters are defined in the regulation, not in the women's shelters, but in the guesthouse; in fact, there's a way of hosting them. So, again, there are so many problems with the women who are there economically sustaining themselves, with their children around them, that I'm going to pass on this conclusion to the Minister because there's very important information here, there's data that needs to be taken into consideration. Dear friends, we, the People's Democratic Party, are women who are based on the struggle for women's freedom, who know how important it is for women to be involved in decisions and implementation mechanisms in this particular issue. So we applied the co-chair system, not just in general governments, but not in political parties, but also in local governments. Mr. Secretary just said: "We have a lot of efforts to get women involved in the public office, to get jobs. One of these efforts is to cancel our co-chair in the local administrations. The decision to stop the regulations has been made through the governors. Now, I ask you, how do you defend women's right to equal representation, whether it's their employment in local governments or women's decision-making mechanisms in local governments? The governorships have objected and the local courts have decided that our co-chairs in the municipalities are now being halted. Secondly, dear friends, this quota is at the mercy of parties. Yes, we use 50 percent equal representation, we have co-chair, but in AKP power, for example, there are no quotas, they set the quota themselves. It's a profile of a woman the man wants. I mean, what's it gonna be? The lady will be a woman, she'll talk like a lady, she'll dress like a lady. So, in fact, the reflection of this family policy is reflected on her, and on her... she'll work harder than men, she'll be more talented than men, or she'll be eliminated in that category. Now, once again, we're highlighting this issue. The practice of quotas is supposed to be constitutionally guaranteed, so it's not only at the mercy of parties, it's supposed to be a method that all parties have to implement. Then, see how the violence against the woman will be reduced. Now, dear friends, there's something else that's been imposed on us. We don't agree with the AKP government, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. True, they believe that men and women are not equal, but I think they've accidentally signed the Istanbul Convention, they haven't read it because it's a contract based on equality of women and men, and according to this, all laws must be regulated. That's how they express it in that sense, as their social traits, to our whole lives. Where they talk about violence against women, or on Women's Day, men and women cannot be equal, they say to us, "Don't impose this on us." We say from this platform, "Man and woman are equal; do not impose your thoughts on us." As women, we will fight it everywhere and we will continue to fight it. In particular, their approach to feminists, such as these, do not know business. Their approach is not true. Now, my dear friends, the feminists also have an answer to the President, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to read part of it: We feminists don't understand phytrates. We don't accept the roles of womanhood imposed on us by the male rule system. We don't think we should give birth because we can give birth. We know that family is not the only existence in life, and we see that life is possible by building different kinds of solidarity. We never lose faith in a world where men and women will be equal. We fight for equality, justice and freedom. Our true demand for justice, not male justice, comes from equality. It is evident that the word established on the basis that women are not equal to men, and the policies carried out hinder women's freedom. Therefore, we will be more involved in women's solidarity and organisation against President Erdoğan and AKP's policies that deepen women's inequality. The Istanbul Feminist Collective says. Now, my dear friends, there's a constant way of saying things over us women. As a feminist socialist woman, I've always expressed it on this stand; we women don't have to do what we're forced to do. Because we're talking about a 5,000-year-old male dominant system, a radical system, a mentality that actually weakens women and men today, which actually maintains these inequality policies. So what we call the construction of democratic modernity against capitalist modernity, what we call Kurdish women, is actually building an egalitarian life. We women don't accept what's imposed on us, what's given to us. We know that at the beginning of society, men and women were equal. When power, when judgment, when plus value came out, the inequality came out, and the first inequality was the inequality between men and women. The first inequality, in fact, is when a man takes a woman's labor. That's where the power build-up started, that's where the hierarchy started. And from that day forward, they're trying to claim that this is our destiny. We say this is not our destiny. And I'm making a special call to the female friends here. Come, together... they need to know that this is not our destiny, that men and women can be equal, that women can do all sorts of things men do, but men can't do everything women do, for example, can't give birth. Since they can't give birth, life is actually around women, around women's centers. We don't accept attitudes that seem to be lacking in women all the time. One more sentence: we don't have to classify women. He said: "We want to be first class. We don't want to be first or second class, we don't want to be classless. If it's possible, we don't have class, friends, let's be equal. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he's first, he'll be second, he'll be third, he'll be fourth. I don't accept such a thing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0053par0071	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0054par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the investigation motion on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to determine the reasons for the continued increase in violence, pressure on women and the ongoing killings of women in Turkey. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, the idea of our state, our nation, our independence, our democracy, the survival of our national culture will be possible by the hands of the precious teachers, free, free, and wise. The future of a nation whose teacher is unhappy is hopeless, vague, and risky. Our teachers are devoted, sincere. From yesterday to today, no threat has prevented the light of education and teaching shining from any class. Our teachers were persecuted, tortured, broke, victimized, attacked by terrorists, but they didn't compromise their dignity. On this occasion, I'd like to begin by celebrating the 24th day of November of all our teachers, especially Chief Teacher Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Dear friends, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it is the duty of the state to allow everyone living within the country's borders to live in a healthy environment. One of the biggest obstacles to the creation and sustaining of a healthy social environment is individual and social violence. We see in our country that crime and criminals have increased in recent years. This should be considered a sign that poverty, injustice, corruption is increasing, morality is weakening. The view our country is coming from today is clear as day can't be discussed in terms of political and economic security, inner peace. Societal morality, unfortunately, is rapidly wearing off. A crisis dominated by moral collapse, violence, doubt in our great cities has risen in the reign of the Justice and Development Party for the last 12 years. Domestic violence is the most ignored human right. In recent years, we have witnessed our women being slaughtered everywhere at an increasing rate. According to the Global Gender Offensive Report, which the World Economic Forum evaluated 135 countries yearly, Turkey was ranked 124th in a three-digit fall compared to last year. According to unofficial figures, 214 women were killed in 2013 by men around or unknown. The picture of 2014 shows that the situation was more severe than last year. According to this, only in the first seven months of 2014, 150 women died from male violence. The death of some 25 of these women while under state protection is evidence of the importance of human life. As the President said, the concept of justice is important. We must act justly within the family, but we will bring justice. What confession is there to say that the only way to solve the problems that women face is to do nothing, even though they are in charge? Or are they crocodile tears? The subject of equality between men and women is not intended to be understood or is being diverted from its purpose. Every intelligent Turkish woman understands equality, not physiological equality, but equality in rights. Of course, it is possible to participate in all that is said about her sanctity. However, the answer to the question of how to prevent women's murders is the fact that only 29 women were killed in October. So what good does it do to set up the classic information that we know? The faithful do not commit violence, says Mr. President. So, are all women who commit murder without faith? If you persist in implementing practices, rhetoric and policies that deepen women's gender-based roles in society, which bind them deeper and deeper to all the institutions of society, then you invite them every day. One of the three women in our country sees physical violence. The proportion of women who have experienced physical violence at least once in their lifetime is 39% across Turkey. 78% of divorced and separated women suffer physical violence. Women who say that they experience physical violence are getting smaller as the level of education increases. Among women who do not know how to read and write, the proportion of those who say that they have been exposed to physical violence at least once is 12% among women who have been highly educated at 43 percent. The cause for women's violence comes with an inequality of income distribution and unemployment across the country. As long as the injustice of income distribution continues, our women will be the most affected group. If we look at the data of women joining the labor force, we'll see that we're way, way behind in the European countries. According to the general state of women in the asylum, violence appears to be not ageless, women aged 15 or 60 are suffering from violence. Turkey still has about one-30th of the number of shelters. We see the lack of sufficient shelters for women who are victims of violence as clear evidence that the system is setting the stage for a lack of real protection, continuing violence against women, spreading, and becoming normal. Despite the laws and contracts that have entered into force, the failure to prevent the killings is due to the lack of practice and the failure of authorities to do their part. As long as we have women in shelters who are brutally murdered, ambushed, brutally slaughtered, targeted with their baby in their belly, waiting for a cure, being insulted and accused in their homes, none of us will ever have any comfort or comfort. We all see and hear from the public news that the government is preaching advanced democracy, promoting positive discrimination, and on the other hand, the number of women who are victims of rape, harassment and murder is rapidly multiplying. Although the Council of Europe's Istanbul Convention, which stipulates that the state should take every precaution based on the urgency and the risk of death on women who have been subjected to violence, neither this contract nor the improvements brought to the protection of the family and prevention of violence against women have been in the way of violence. It's not over with the law, it's only on paper. Two years have passed, and the application code has not been removed. In order to prevent violence and domestic violence against women, only laws and contracts must not be satisfied. As part of the national action plan, determination, continuity and responsibility are also necessary. The law enforcement force must respond to any violence against the victims in an emergency and in a place like this. The operation of the report mechanism must be accelerated. The victim must be protected and given psychological support and temporary support by the state. Those who are involved in violence against women must also be punished. The production of the necessary publications in the media must be provided at an increasing rate. Schools should include classes on women's human rights and equality of men and women. The legal, administrative, and criminal measures necessary for forced marriages, early marriages to be considered a crime must be taken. We, the National Movement Party, have already proposed a class called "social gender" starting in the 4th grade. That's what we offered our children to recognize themselves and maintain the tradition of moving together in a society. In our 2011 Election Bill, we stated that improving the level of education of women will strengthen our women's social position, in providing them with more roles in the development process, in business and in decision-making mechanisms. Regardless of their age, we have stated that women who are divorced or widowed should be taken into their care by those whose parents are obliged to care for if they do not have their own insurance or monthly or income. We stated that legal aid should be provided during the search for legal rights for women who have been abused, violence, harassment, and abuse, and that the quality of their children's lives should be improved and their future guaranteed. Dear friends, as we all know, violence has two dimensions. We're talking about the violence and the murder of women as we speak, but there's also the other side of the locket, the male side of the force. Unfortunately, at the point of what we have missed, what we need to do about men, if we look at it from a one-sided perspective, the fact that we can't get results should be seen and known by everyone. If we don't see the emotional violence of the man behind these problems today, we have no chance of getting ahead of the problem. We also need to teach anger management to men. The last one we pulled out of the house, the man or the man who was kicked out of the house with the powers we gave the law enforcement force, then he sees his partner for the cause, and then he acts out with the desire to take revenge on him. Unfortunately, the point that comes as a result of wrongful policies is a policy that causes women to be subjected to more murders, not to kindness. Since men are responsible for violence against women, men should not be excluded from violence prevention studies. A serious examination of the mental health of violent people must be conducted and treated according to the diagnosis. On the other hand, family therapy must be enforced and the male must be involved. In our country, there are family therapists and counselors, but many families are not available to assess this socioeconomic situation. A family counselling project should be implemented in order to solve family problems and improve and develop this vital institution, and consult on a number of families that he may care for at each health clinic. With families responsible for this counselling, you must visit their homes every week if necessary, and make sure that the problems are resolved before they grow. It's the job of sociologists to investigate disease in society and create policy with solution proposals. The European countries and the United States provide important functions and tasks for sociologists in the diagnosis and treatment of all problems in society. In order to understand yourself, then others, and then get to know the community, sociology classes in high school must be mandatory and functional. In primary school, secondary school, and high school guidance services, teachers with a degree in guidance and psychological counselling should be able to serve as well as graduates of sociology. For this, sociologists can be active in the guidance process, including the school sociologist's staff. In this way, students can be guided, co - guided, and co - guided in harmony with their social environments. Violent and pathological individuals can be treated by prior detection. School sociologists can take out family monographs of students, provide social advice with family and social circles, organise co-operation and relations with school-family, conduct public relations activities at the school. In the context of risk society, sociologists are needed to understand and resolve people and society against social and cultural risks. Sociologists are needed to anticipate social risks and dangers and to take precautions before problems occur. In order to solve individual, psychological, and social problems, solidarity and cooperation are essential to the Turkish community. Family values, such as the spirit of unity, will reduce the problems caused by social anomania to support each other and resolve problems. In all the districts of cities, especially in the lower social areas, the state must open family counselling centres. They should be assigned experts such as sociologists, social workers, psychologists, lawyers, child development specialists. People with problems in the neighborhood will be able to prevent or reduce acts of violence and crime if they receive help from experts in these centers. Family counselling centers, women's guesthouses, social services experts and psychologists at violent prevention and monitoring centres must serve as well as sociologists. Family counselling centers, women's guesthouses, and youth centers must also be served by sociologists. The appointment of sociologists who received a family counselling certificate is also important for the benefit of newly raised family counselors, according to the Family Advice Act. As you all know, there are many young people in our country who have graduated from psychology, psychologists, and sociology. So if we really think of violence as a social problem, and we want to solve it before the violence starts, we need to work out the way that we can by providing support for everyone in the family, in the whole family, before there's even a problem. Or it's pretty clear that we can't solve it just by raising criminal charges or looking at the causes of women's murders, and there won't be any consequences. I salute all our women, who are a representative of love, peace, and tolerance in the community, and salute your high council, who are given the good news that heaven is at their feet.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0055par0105	Thank you, Mr. Oz. İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Kın will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0056par0109	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of the commission to investigate the violence and murder of women. I hereby salute your delegation. Violence against a woman is an act that is likely to result or result in physical, sexual, or psychological damage or suffering. Any pressure on women, public or private, is violence. In 2005, violence against women has been assessed in the Parliamentary Commission on Assembly of the National Assembly of Turkey, for the purpose of investigating measures to be taken against Women and Children and for the purpose of investigating the Murders of Dignity and Violence in Women and Children has also been considered as follows: The Second Amendment Commission on Human Rights of the 24th Year has been prepared to harm women, to hurt them, to hurt them, to inflict on them physical, sexual, mental damage, or to result in them, to impose pressure on them in public or in private life, and to restrict their freedoms. According to a study conducted by the Council of Europe in the early 2000s, violence and murder of women have been on the agenda of the last ten-year, both in Turkey and in the world. One of the four women and one of the six men worldwide have suffered domestic violence at some point in their lives. It's possible to tell a woman that there's been an increase in violence and public awareness, but it's not possible to base this increase on statistical data because we don't have reliable data from the past. For example, growing health workers' sensitivity and reporting mechanisms for violence against women are both visible and legal. Sometimes the number of women's murders has increased by 1,400 years in the past seven years. As political rhetorics, such as this, would be an insult to statistics, I think it would bring a serious swing over the past decade of women's awareness. At first sight, in an environment where such talk and measures have been taken yesterday, Turkey has also considered the need to rethink the issue if there is no reduction in violence against women. In particular, after 2006, we all signed serious work in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. All our fellow congressmen were sensitive about it. Established commissions have done serious work, and these studies have been supported by legal regulations. Some headlines include: the National Action Plan Against Violence Against Women, the Watch Committee for Violence on Women, the Committee for Violence on Women, the ALO 183 call line for violence and the tip lines for women and children -- this line, according to necessity, provides guidance and advice for women's guest numbers and projects to fight against domestic violence -- as you know. In 2002, when we had 11 women's guesthouses, we had 283, and today we have 130 guest houses, and we have the capacity to serve 3,348 people. Despite all these legal regulations, despite steps towards changing the state's view of the family, police measures have been greatly increased, studies show that nearly 9 per cent of protected women have been killed despite measures. According to studies, 13% of the women who were murdered were killed because they refused to make peace with their husband, or because they refused to make peace with him. We can talk about the lack of police measures here, but for the person who convinced himself to kill, who saw destruction as a solution, the police and judicial measures will always be inadequate. Because it's been known that most of the people who committed the murder of women and their families ended their own lives or attempted to commit suicide after the murder. It would be optimistic to expect police, legal, legal measures to stop this psychology. This psychology needs to be targeted and uncovered the action plans for the destruction of the infrastructure of aggression. We must remember that women's murders are not a cause, they are a consequence. It is imperative that the psychology that leads to these painful consequences be revealed and replaced, the way the state sees violence and murder in the eyes of the family, the employer, the son, the wife, the relatives, all the layers of society that form it. Turkey is a society that moves from traditional to modern, from village to city, and has migrated a lot. What does that mean? It's the decline of traditional structures, decay, disintegration. The weaker social support networks, the more atomic people, families. Insecurity, there are no self-control mechanisms left on the family to observe. On top of this dissolution, the potential for violence is also increasing. On the contrary, we also see that in the traditional structure, patriarchal family, there are murders of honor and tradition, and there are attempts to cover it up quietly. With legal regulations, it has been particularly effective for these patriarchal family structures to be tried, along with the minor fert who committed or took the murder personally, to be punished even more severely from time to time. Today, violence against women common in the world and Turkey has begun to be accepted in the context of a public health issue, as there is a human rights problem. The characteristics of violent personality are as follows: Physical aggression, To adopt violence as a way of controlling it, Taking physical aggression as a model, Being abused as a child, Excessive alcohol abuse, drug abuse. Domestic violence and murders against women are unfortunately in front of us as a public health problem in Turkey. Prior to that awareness, women's murders, as you know, were often treated as an honest or ritual murder on page 3 of the newspapers, and statistics were considered a criminal case. We are faced with a constitutional task, such as protecting family unity, protecting human life and preventing death. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my dear friends, we, as lawmakers, are the first-degree residents of this mission. As deadly as violence against women, there are physical, physical costs, human injuries, psychological injuries, traumas, insulation, social communication, inhibition, and injury. These things take a long time, and for many years, people are overwhelmed by it. It's becoming difficult for us, as individuals, to exist together as a society, as well. Domestic violence comes back like a boomerang, and the kids, unfortunately, have the potential to pass on this problem as the next generation role model, as the potential carrier of this violence that they or their mothers see. Again, unfortunately, the victims of violence are usually, as we always say, women and children. From the police station where the woman who was beaten is your husband, who beats and loves him. Turkey is no longer where he was handed over to the husband who was violent with him. We can't even imagine it, we can't tolerate it. In addition to the changing world, some individuals in the family, along with change, and resistance, have been effective in increasing domestic violence. After a while, violence among the family, especially among the spouses, is beginning to become common, and being perceived as normal and producing solutions, has a negative effect on their work. Especially in patriarchal structures, this problem does not appear to be a domestic matter. We know that important decisions have been made in our previous commissions to prevent violence against women, and social studies have been made in accordance with these decisions. Turkey was the first signator of the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe signed on 11 May 2011 as a result of talks in our country. The European Union's Istanbul Convention came into effect on 1 August 2014. I believe it would be in accordance with the Turkish Parliament's working spirit that the commission, which was envisioned to set up, will work in a way that will evaluate these obligations, to monitor them, without ignoring the international contracts that we are also obliged to comply with. We must consider August 1st as a new beginning and take the necessary measures to protect our women with the basis of this international agreement. According to the family ministry's data, nearly 7,000 civil servants from our poets have been trained to prevent domestic violence, including 71,000 police officers, 65,000 health care, 21,000 religious officials. The judges and prosecutors of our family courts attended these seminars. Despite all these efforts, the violence against women, despite the formation of awareness, is still on our agenda as a subject that is unfortunately common in the world and in Turkey, which threatens the woman's human rights. On the other hand, despite many arrangements to cope with the problem, this social problem remains. The government's view is not enough to prevent violence against women and violence from changing, equating, and sanctioning at least the legal level of male view. I believe that the culture of urbanization, the phenomenon of religion, the patterns, the virtues, the migration from village to town, the changing of socioeconomic relationships, even the existence of terror events, television shows, children's computer games, the existence of our tortured human beings may be stonewalling the roads of violence and murder. Violent environments such as wrong state practices, oppression and violence of terrorist organizations, unsolved killings have fueled a traumatic and common approach to violence. Given that the cycle of violence is feeding, growing, spreading, it's a disease of belief. You understand the relationship between your spouse, your parents, your family, the people who are being abused from around you, that they are weak. The person who sees himself as insecure and vulnerable will have no confidence or harmony in the community, the state, the social environment, where he lives. Places, places, situations are what all our fellow lawmakers can predict. In our commission work, women's murders are not the only ones who should be concerned with action based on the outcome; on the contrary, measures aimed at the source of the problem should be a priority. Therefore, it would be appropriate for our national education curriculum, the Ministry of Religious Affairs, the public education centers, all of our NGOs, our health institutions to consider joint efforts. We're dealing with a problem that's been proven to be very difficult to solve with just legal regulations. I think we should come up with action plans in order to develop a perspective on the socio-psychological impacts of social changes on the family, the individual, the woman, and the man. The perspective that reduces the woman to any object that can be possessed, controlled, saved. The marriage certificate is not a deed; it is a contract of the decisions of men and women to share a life together; it is never a certificate of possession of a woman. The commission, in fact, will reveal a road map that will change the perceptions of society and shed light on male-female relationships. Yeah, we're gonna fight prejudice. Einstein said it was harder to change prejudice than to break the atom. We'll be in constant pursuit of the women's murders that have become a bleeding wound. We know that the stone is not the force of the water that pierces the stone, but the continuity of the drops. We'll work together. Each of us has a responsibility to keep a man alive, a woman alive. Every woman is a starfish. Instead of holding the starfish from sea to sea, I repeat my opinion that we should bring them to life at sea. Dear MPs, women are half the world. In our wonderful dictionary, the meaning of the word "namus" is the law. As our high civilization informs us that women are virtuous, in fact, they say, contrary to what they think they are, that women are the law. Without it, there is chaos, order is broken, there is sway, there is falling upside down. Violence against women is a condition that causes psychological and physical injuries in women, causes them to suffer, breaks their honor, prevents discrimination against women, prevents their fundamental rights and freedom. We are prepared to give our full support as the Justice and Development Party Group to prevent, prevent, prevent, and end the murders of women for whatever reason. I wish you success in your studies now, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0057par0142	Thank you, Mr. Row. The talks for the bands are over. Now we move on to the speech of the motion holders. The first speaker of the motion is İstanbul MP Binnaz Erk. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0058par0148	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, let me begin by saying that in this period of power, there has been a very serious amendment to legislation regarding violence against women. The Penal Code changed in 2004, and sexual harassment and sexual rape were aggravated in the Penal Code, and it was also predicted that there would be no discount in murders committed with honor. We all signed the Istanbul Convention here in 2011. In fact, Turkey was the first country to sign. The following was the protection of the family and the law of violence against women in 2012. Now, despite that, the painting is terrifying. Violence against the woman is not diminishing, it's increasing. I'll give you the figures of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy: 7,000 women have taken refuge in the state in the first seven months of 2014. Between 2012 and 14, over 22,000 women were granted temporary protection. By the end of July 2014, nearly 11,000 women and children remain in state-owned shelters, and between 2011-2014, that means that within three years, the Alo 183 line -- which is a line used by women who are subjected to violence -- is 94,400 -- is an enormous number. The Women's Rights Centre of the Istanbul Bar also says that in the last seven years, women's murders have increased by 1,400 percent. In 2003, for example, I'm just saying 83, which is actually a high number in 83, but only relatively -- she was killed. 255 women in the first ten months of 2014. In October alone, 29 women of 2014 were killed and there are 2,000 divorce applications a year in Istanbul -- the numbers given by the baron again -- 85% of which are caused by domestic violence. Now, these figures, of course, are not included in those who were made to look like suicides, women who were forced to commit suicide, women who were killed in an accident. For example, I went to Batman on the basis of a study I did in 2008. At the time, Batman was famous for female suicides, and I thought I'd look into it while I was here, and no one was talking, so it was a taboo matter. I could only learn it from the former head of a women's organization, and he said: "This woman has an incest problem behind her suicides. I mean, as a result of sexual intercourse in the family, these girls and women are locked up somewhere, and there's a bowl of water in front of them, and they're forced to put a rope and commit suicide. So the painting in Turkey is really scary. Now, why are these things, the murders? The reasons for not wanting to get divorced, for example, or not wanting to make up with his wife, or because of her chastity, are to reject her offer of chastity, under the guise of modesty, or to be joined together, even to such surrealistic dimensions a few years ago, when a man was lying in bed, dreaming of her having sex with another man, and his wife woke up next to him and killed her. Another man, I liked a young girl. And I followed him, and he gave me no face, and turned his back, and walked, and slew me. He spoke long and long to the grocery store. There is a man who killed his wife, so he really reached a surrealistic dimension. I mean, there's a massacre of women, there's a massacre of women. There really is a massacre of women in this country. Now, why, despite all these laws, are there serious problems with implementation? First of all, the police, the gendarmes, even though Belma is my friend, it doesn't happen anymore. Even though he says it doesn't happen anymore...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0059par0154	I didn't say no.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0058par0155	...they're making peace with her husband. They're applying women for violence. Come on, it's your husband. It's peace. In fact, in one case, a woman like that was reconciled, and then she killed her, and the family sued the interior ministry, and the interior ministry was sentenced to compensation in this case. Now, the second problem is the position of the courts. This has been passed on to the EU Commission reports. In the 2014 report, for example, the report says that he had consent to sexual abuse. You may even remember that he had a N. D. I just forgot the initials, a young girl. 26 men, teachers, officers, and so on, raped this girl. As a report, there was a warrant in court. They said it was like a 13-year-old child's consent. It's called unfair provocation, it's called "older than old," it's called "smaller than small." You know, even with a tie and a discount for good behavior. The same report says... there's a shortage of investigations, actually. Now, again, in this report, and another issue that we all know about, which women's organizations are constantly bringing up: shelters. In the area where 50,000 people used to live, municipalities were obliged to open a shelter; they did not, and no one was following it. Now, let's just say we're okay with that. The municipalities where 100,000 people live have to open a shelter. And that's not being done, and it's not being followed, it's the municipalities that don't open the shelter. The other issue, the fourth issue, is no protection. Although Mr. Secretary claims it was given, it's not enough. There are women who have been killed under guard. I know Mr. Secretary made a statement, and it may not have happened during his time, but a lot of women were killed while they were in protective custody, or the guards were killed very briefly, as soon as that time was over. The fifth issue is policies and rhetoric that strengthen social gender roles. Now, look, again, Mr. Secretary said: "Friends will bring it up." Because he heard me, and I brought it up on the commission before. The Law on Violence and Family Protection against the woman... now I've said it to Fatma Hawkain, the Minister of that time, and I said, "Look, you can't solve this problem unless you see her as an individual, as a citizen with rights, because the origin of the problem is family. So it's the family that kills these women, not the men he doesn't know on the street. So you have to look at her as an individual. And then there's the words. I mean, it was an extremely unfortunate statement yesterday, Mr. President's statement: "Fitrate..." which means it's going to be a futrate. The workers are dying, the workers are dying. For some reason, they're always in the outhouse of Turkish workers! I think he means that women have different sides of men and women, so they're not equal. After that, men and women have physical inequality. E, the child who goes to the nest, looks at his parents and sees that they are not equal. Therefore, stressing that actually reinforces sexist approaches toward women in society. In the same way, we've heard many stories like this. See, if they don't laugh, if they're pregnant, they don't go out into the street, they get men up to four women, they're in the outside of the men's body, and so on and so forth. Now, women's organizations have been struggling with this for years. They've collected a million signatures, and it's not enough. We're going to stop the Women's Murders. The platform is constantly participating in protests and walks. The last resort was an extraordinary session in the House. Finally, Congress, our deaf ears have heard and we're having a meeting like this, and a commission will be set up. There's really a lot to do on this commission. My proposal -- I've proposed it before, I've said it in the commission -- is to declare 2015 the year of the fight against women's murders. But it's not just a struggle to fight murder. We need to look at the female problem collectively, we need a holistic approach because it's all connected. The judiciary, the police, the health departments need to be trained, so the budget needs to be cut. Public spotlights on state, radio and television, you know, government-backed projects, etcetera. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First of all, the first and middle school curriculum...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0060par0165	Thank you, Mr. Earth.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0058par0166	I need half a minute.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0060par0167	Go ahead, tell me before you turn on the microphone, because I don't want to be unfair to other friends, so please wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0058par0168	I mean, it was like five seconds, actually. ...studying lessons, that's very important, lessons that can actually prevent discrimination and discrimination against women.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0060par0170	Dear Earth, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0058par0171	The protection measures need to be increased, and those who decide on these murders and those who help should be punished in a much more serious way.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0060par0173	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of the motion holder, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0061par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, today is International Fighting and Solidarity Day for Women on November 25th. As we begin our discussion on this platform each year, we begin by stating the number of women who suffered violence while expressing violence against women. I'm afraid I'm going to have to start speaking on this bench again today by explaining these numbers and a general situation. Its importance and urgency in Turkey and the world, unfortunately, is also preserved in the case of women's murders this year. Our country has continued this year to be a country in the world rankings for rights violations against women, at the point of women's rights and freedoms. Dear friends, Turkey is unfortunately unable to escape being a country where the most intense structural violence is seen, that all sexual and physical violence towards women are far above the world average, and that women can become unconcerned with violence. It's a pity that in the day that no women have been killed, women's killings have rapidly turned into women's slaughters, some kind of persecution. According to official figures, violence against women has increased by 1,400 per cent in the past decade, valuable friends and average five women a day have been slaughtered by men, and that much of them have been subjected to severe injuries, harassment, and rape. Each year, dozens of women have been protected by the state, but once again reveal the fact that their right to live is not protected and that they do not develop comprehensive and effective policies. Dear friends, violence against women in Turkey is generally viewed as a women's issue and a domestic matter. However, violence against women of different species and frequency in each layer of society is a public problem based on social gender inequality; economic, political, legal, religious, social and cultural processes; complex, comprehensive, and of general concern to society. The family, which is an important part of the future construction of individuals, is also considered a security and security environment. However, studies show that violence against women is often domestic violence. The safest place for a woman and people are the primary source of violence. In short, most of the women are exposed to violence in their homes by the closest men - fathers, brothers, wives, and people they live with. What we've heard from the state's most competent mouths is an expression of these policies, trying to trap a woman in her traditional position in the family. It has to be known that male violence is a form of acceptance of traditional sexist and male roles in society. In this regard, understanding that women should have children first and, of course, men's violence, who are waiting for them to take care of them, who are not struggling for the equality of men and women, who do not fight for the equality of men and women, and who, at every opportunity, argue for the strengthening of the family. Dear friends, in 1987, the case of a judge in Çankırı, a pregnant woman who was beaten by her wife, with a request for divorce, you will not deprive her of the stick, nor the ham from her belly. The rejection of her word, referring to it, caused your reaction to women all over the country. After September 12th, the first mass street demonstrations were held and campaigns were launched against the beating. Of course, a lot has changed over the time that women have fought in every field. At the very least, judges have no longer referred to such insults as this, but in the past few weeks, a lawsuit has been filed against the mother of Pamir, who disappeared from her house at night and was found dead in the neighbor's pool, and who overwhelmed all of us with deep sorrow, for causing reckless and reckless death. Dear friends, this case is not open to the father, it's open to the mother. The prosecutor stressed that the care and care of a child of that age belonged to the mother in the indictment. As if the pain of losing your child wasn't enough, the product of the dominant male mentality was even more devastated by this mentality that held him responsible for the death of his child. Well, isn't that violence, too? Of course, that's violence. Besides, it's violence, which has public power and must stand in the face of inequality, which is carried out by a force unaware of the laws that put the child's care responsibility in common with the mother and father. The head of the country, the largest representative of the people, is not equal to the male, the woman, the woman, the man. I think it's not hard not to understand the segregation of the country's prosecutor, as he raises this violence with the debates of the feminist-anti-antifeminist. Although many regulations and mechanisms have been developed in international and national regulations aimed at eliminating gender-based discrimination and violence against women, the fact that women continue to be subjected to violence requires you to look at the factors behind the issue. Beyond violence towards women, there are structural reasons for historically inequal power relations between men and women. As long as these inequality power relations and structural problems are not resolved, however perfect the legal arrangements are, it is unfortunate that violence against women is not possible. The 21st century, where social gender inequality is one of the most fundamental and sharp contradictions, has been a century in which capitalist modernity is jointd with male-dominated mentality, mutually fostering each other and turning it into structural violence towards women. Dear friends, therefore, women who have been oppressed for thousands of years under the male dominant society have suffered the greatest loss with children in times of war. The Sovereigns are trying to capture the people by their cannons, by their rifles, by their tanks, by their assimilations. This is exactly what happened in Jangal, in Rojava. Today, women are the head of those who were raped, detained, and brutally murdered in Şengal. There was a massacre near us very recently. Ezidi and Turkmen were kidnapped and sold in slave markets by ISIS, raped, forced to convert, forced marriages, the biggest violence of all. She was considered a spoils of war, and all her values were severely attacked. Today, this danger continues, dear friends. A woman's injustice in any part of the world must be accepted by all women. Today, many of the hundreds of thousands of immigrants from Rojava, Syria, are women and children, and today they are struggling for a difficult life in the camps; it is our conscientious duty to support them, to heal their wounds and to provide for them. Again, 35 years of war in our country has given similar pain to Kurdish women, women who are opposed. Rape and torture in custody has been very intense at this time. People have been sacrificed to unsolved murders, women have suffered the pain of raising their children along with the loss of their spouses; they have been forced to emigrate, and their labor has been exploited wherever they go. In short, the violence of war affected women the most. For all these reasons, the permanent silence of weapons will bring an end to the violence against the woman at some point. Therefore, it is the duty of the Parliament to work for peace, especially for us lawmakers, women and people who are sensitive to human rights. With this occasion and these feelings, I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0062par0193	Thank you. Third speaker on behalf of the motionholders, Eskişehir MP Ruzzar Demirel. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0063par0197	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, there's a lot to say about that, but first I'd like to start inside the House. If a law was being voted on right now, this hall would be full, but no one's here to listen when there's a violation of human rights as a result of a vote-out law or international agreements that can't be implemented. Actually, this is us questioning ourselves somewhere. We all raise our hands when many laws are signed, many international contracts, but we never look back. Parliament is not only the legislature, it's also the control body. That's the only way the executives can be audited, and that's why these motions are being made. If all the laws that have been passed, every law that you raise your hand to be carried out by the administration, if it were manageable, if it were a transparent country, there would be no such talk about these murders. We call it murder, and women are only subjected to violence by being killed? No. There's disrespect, insult, economic constraints, all of it. But we, to represent this nation first, in exchange for the votes we've received, the laws we've raised, signed, the laws we've signed, how long the contracts can be run, how much of them are missing, I think we should have the greatest responsibility for the nation. Yeah, violence is the universal problem, it's our country, it's all over the world. It's a public health issue, and that's a yes. But if there is a woman's development in 118th place in the world, then our country has a special situation. I've never heard the saying from the administration: "Let's make an arrangement to promote our order in development of gender equality and our order in development to the first ten. " I hope I'm incomplete, but I don't think there's any of you. Let our economy get into the top 10 percent, hopefully, but when we don't call a person a human being, when we don't have a code of conscience or a code of conduct, let's just have laws, let's have regulations, let's be kids who've done their homework, but let's not learn the lesson. So we already have the Convention on Human Rights and we signed it, we signed CEDAW, we didn't meet all the requirements of all of this, we put the 90th Amendment into the Constitution, we have the responsibility of making international contracts a country law in accordance with the procedure, and none of it was enough, the Istanbul Convention-- Hayhay, all the MPs, all the presidents signed. And? The result is that we are still 118. So, do we get a paper out of this? Given the state of the General Assembly, we don't take any responsibility for it. So it's not enough that we're here to raise our hand just for the law. I'm sorry if you're a minority in the conscience, even if you're a numerical majority. Now, legally, we're not missing anything. Primary law, secondary law, all of it. You're looking at the action, we're back in the same place. We admit that awareness, changes in definitions, creates numerical reproduction. What I like to say is that in the old days, when you said violence, it was understandable to be beaten, physically beaten. Today the definition of violence has changed. And insult is violence. There's something we call Mobbing. Humiliation is violence, economic constraint is violence, but this universal development is the same for all countries, but why are we 118, and none of us are questioning it. These sessions are required to be held for questioning, but no one here or listens to the decisions that will be made as a result of these sessions. In fact, as they're not listening, we're about to discuss the sex of angels in our country. Everyone who's in trouble is doing politics through the woman. Gentlemen, please, don't make politics out of us. You've pulled the veil over our heads, you've pulled up our pants, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't! No more politics over gender, please. I believe that all of these women who are in the hall and who are not present are disturbed by this; I believe that all women who are involved in politics are disturbed by it. Please give up. I mean, you know, if there's five liters of milk coming out of a cow, don't bother about seven liters! So, we're bringing equality to the sisters of the 2010 Constitution. You said you had a rally in 81 provinces, but if you went out yesterday and said, "How can they be equal?" The answer is: It's not really equal to you. If it's for you, it's parallel.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0064par0202	Let's not beat around the bush. Let's not twist that conversation.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0063par0203	So I'm saying that men and women are parallel. If you agree to this, if it's okay to be parallel in your eyes, let's say that, but in this country, men and women are equal, because we're human. We are equals as human beings, so accept them and do not accept them. You can say what you want individually, it binds you and binds you close to your environment, whether you treat us equally, but we consider ourselves equal citizens. We are citizens of the Republic of Turkey and equal citizens of this nation. We don't care about your personal opinion. From that point on, it's enough for politics from woman to woman. One fact is that it is a Dominican event in the world where November 25 is accepted. But if you look at why the United Nations made such a decision in 1999, you might want to think about Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the abuse of the women in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the abuse of 16 women with the heart of rapes after testifying in The Hague. And, after this decision in The Hague in 1998, the United Nations signed this decision in 1999. In many parts of the world, women are victims of war, peace, all kinds of conflict. Women were victims in Syria, women were victims in East Turkistan, women in Turkmenistan, women in Crimea, women in Crimea, women in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it is not appropriate for today to make a policy by defining women through religion, etnisity, identity, segregation. Today's agenda is the equality of women. Yeah, she's from there, she's from here. There's no such thing, we're all human. If we can talk about all the women, we're here. We are the guardians of the nation, not a certain group. And that's why we demand that people refuse to do politics through gender, through identity, and live in a nonviolent world in the name of man is the greatest desire of all of us. Of course, when we look at the newspapers or at TV news or at neighboring talks, a reason for violence is always wanted: it happened because he said to his husband, because he did this to his child. There is violence, and there is violence, and that's the end of it. It is the fault of the media, of course, of the news that causes violence against people; of course it is the fault of the House, for not being a follower of its laws; it is also the fault of the people, because we have not completed these studies within the family. It's a bit like an egg-chicken, not exactly us women without sin or men. In fact, none of us have a stone to throw, let the most faultless throw the first stone. We women train more children. Yes, that's what social gender roles are like, but don't fathers contribute to education at all? It's as good as ours, but they have to take the blame and admire the boyfriends who talk about violence against her here. Because if you talk about it with men, it only comes to a conclusion. Because men still speak politics through women in this country. We want to be defined as people, as citizens, as members of a nation, without being classified as men and women, and if we meet in that opinion, in that conscience, we're already way beyond our problems. It's a matter we're not all short on, but it's something we're all willing to admit that we're short on. Opportunity inequality is a country free of reality and violence, and for a world free of violence, we all have to act on our consciences. No matter what party we're from, no matter what ideology we're from, we all need to be sensitive about these matters for human-based, conscientious politics. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0065par0210	Thank you, too, Mr. Ironel. On behalf of the motionholders, the last speaker is Mr. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0066par0213	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Parliamentary Research Commission, which we would like to avoid violence against the woman. I salute you all. First of all, as a woman, I would like to express my shame as a woman for still speaking about the violence against women in our time. The woman is the original owner of the house according to our beliefs, customs, and customs. A woman is a pillar of the family, and a family is a pillar of society. The woman is the one who represents half the world of mankind, not only with her body, but with her soul, with her sensibility, with her compassion, with her mind, and with her mind. Women who make up more than 50 percent of our country's population are our national strength. Violence against a woman is still one of the most important problems in the world -- as the speakers just pointed out. Violence against women doesn't make any difference, public or private space. We can isolate them in the form of physical violence, economic violence, psychological violence, and sexual violence. Dear lawmakers, in this sense, in terms of culture, in terms of geography, in terms of religion, in terms of this crime of humanity, which has no bounds in any way in the sense of faith, in the time of our governments, we really took it seriously, and we did the best we could to resolve this problem. You guys have had your back. I'd like to thank you, too. The speakers expressed the Istanbul Convention concerning the Protection of the Family. However, there is a fundamental challenge here that we have all agreed on joint motions to establish this research commission in the House. I'd like to approach the subject from there: his hair is long, his mind is short, don't get mixed up in the man's work with the dough of his hand, he beats his knee that doesn't beat his daughter, he promises to fight as a man, he doesn't fit into manhood, he has a lot of phrases like that. For one thing, we need to think about what we can do about these phrases. Now, he's the man who acts violently. When we look at all the speakers, we understand. And a woman who raises a man himself. At this point, I'd like to put a little bit of women's women's friends in charge. We're talking about a male world, we're making up 50 percent of the world. We're talking about it. So where's 50 percent of that male-dominated world? I mean, I think there's a total struggle going on here. Our fellow MP from the National Movement Party said something really nice in his speech: "You have to convert men, you have to include the men's opinion in this commission. We agree completely. Because when we think of men and women as whole, the problem is actually solved, but if we perceive them separately, if we start to do politics through female identity, unfortunately, we can't solve this problem. No one's happy with the situation. We are not happy with the killings of so many women, the beating of women on the streets, the people of the Republic of Turkey, nor are we pleased. Then where's the problem? In order to resolve this problem, hopefully, we expect your valuable contributions when the commission is established. Dear lawmakers, several of our speakers have shared information about the UNIVERSE, which our ministry has opened, and I would like to correct them. THE event is a reception center, so the woman who comes there is placed in the women's guesthouse after her troubles are rested. Which is also an example of Antalya right away: it has 25 employees -- no sociology -- as you just described -- psychologists, nurses, ISKUR specialists. So there's no housing problem, there's no one staying there. In the example of Antalya -- again, I want to give you an example -- 721 women have been admitted into ŞÜNMÜNM, as of November 2010-2014. So we can talk about the request for an average of 50 to 60 women a month. So, as our Minister says, there's actually no women's shelter problem, which our municipalities are opening up, we need to get to the bottom of the problem. And when we get to the bottom of it -- Mr. Minister has expressed, he has expressed his heart, it was a really good speech -- yes, there is a problem, and let's solve it together. We extend our hand, we extend it as a government, we extend it as a ministry, we extend it as MPs because it's a problem for all of us. Also, I'd like to make one more point. Again, one of our deputies accused us of doing politics with the female profile the man wanted about the AK PARTY. Look, we have female congressman friends here. You're not supposed to look outside when you're making some criticism. In my 12-year political party, I haven't had the slightest push about my female identity, about my conservative identity, about my dress, about my lifestyle. I wouldn't be in politics at the Justice and Development Party if I had to deal with it. When you say that, I'm asking you to empathize for us. I mean, I'm really tired of being seen as a window, of being perceived as a window, and I hope you never use it again. Another issue is the cause of female violence. When we look at it in general, it's not just the learned codes, it's the precious friends. Sadly, men see it as a right to them, and because they have the right to it, you will not deprive her of the stick from her back, nor the colt from her belly. But I don't agree... that I agree with our President's statement... in terms of creation, in terms of extremism, in terms of male-female equality. There's a direct twist in there...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0067par0222	Then why did you have this conversation?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0068par0223	I'm even.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0066par0224	No, not at all. With a direct twist, it's like women are made of...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0069par0226	Ms. Gökcen, why are you having this conversation now?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0066par0227	We all know that this is different, and why is it said that he acted out of equality when Mr. President spoke? We all know that. Have some compassion, I beg of you. (EC PARTY Applause) In a fair and legal sense, so many laws have been passed in our time to be already equal in the constitutional sense that when you look at the history of the Republic, you have to think about it by putting a little bit of the hat in front of you. A party that doesn't want the equality of opportunity doesn't fight to raise our girls' schooling rates, doesn't fight to give them a conditional cash allowance. Our goal is to make her visible and make sure she's really involved in the decision-making mechanisms. We're looking at this point. I mean, we're trying to get a statement from Mr. President to another side right now, politically, and we're trying to do a really good job here, and that shouldn't be our agenda. I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0070par0231	Thank you. Congressmans, Parliamentary investigation...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0071par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0070par0234	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0071par0235	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from my position.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0070par0236	Enter the system, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0071par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'd like to take a word with you about the speaker and the minister's speech. Now, Mr. Secretary, we extend our hand. Anyway, we, today, as counseling board, have all the parties... He doesn't have to reach out to them, we've reached out to them, they're in power, they're in power, we're not. So as the executive officer, we expect them to hold the hand we extend. Here, the ruling authorities have just stated how to prevent the increase in violence against women if they're going to consult with us, what methods they're going to follow. Secondly, there is no need here, now, to defend this party or this party or to defend power. We said there was a problem here, and all the parties agreed that it was a problem. So instead of telling us what the ruling party didn't do or what it did, we had to say what solution we could eliminate it. That's why the research commission is being set up, but that's why we're saying that this has gone beyond the issue of male-female inequality. Look, 29 women were murdered just this year. Having shelters doesn't mean anything, the important thing is to take measures that will prevent the woman from falling into those shelters. So that's what we're suggesting, and we're saying it's important for this commission to make it happen. So I'm not saying that we're lawmakers, men and women, we're on the ground, we're on the ground, we're on the ground, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the same page, we're on the So we say to Mr. Secretary, please, let's get the law together and stop this at once, but we also say it won't happen with criminal charges. Let's do everything we can to prevent this, especially in the matter of education, including various rehabilitations, including training in some sociologists. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0072par0246	Thank you. And of course I've listened to all our friends about it, the wishes, partner. Therefore, the motion for the establishment of the research commission was jointly submitted. Today, here, in politics, hands were stretched out. I hope, and I think the hands meet at the shortest point to solve this problem. Congressmans, talks on parliamentary investigation motions have been completed. Now, I'm going to submit to your votes as to whether or not a parliamentary investigation should be opened: those who have agreed to the opening of a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... have not been accepted... have been... accepted. I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart. And I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart on this acceptance.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0073par0285	It's the first time anyone's voted in the House, I guess.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0074par0286	You have revealed the AKP's subconscious view of violence against the woman.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0072par0287	Come on, Mr. Oz, I live here as a woman. Don't, please...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0075par0288	Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0074par0289	It's the same thing, subconsciously... where you subconsciously reveal your point of view.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit02spe0072par0290	Let's not do politics here. You know what party I'm registered to, and today I'm in charge of acting Speaker of Parliament. Please... I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 17 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months to begin with the date of the election of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0072par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off in the 1st ranking Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Adjudication Proclamation Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 3rd place... Mr. Levent, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0076par0015	I have a request. You go ahead, then, sir, so get to the point, then.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0072par0016	Well, let me read the name of the third row. In the third place, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and Isparta MP Recep Special and 52 MPs; Judges and Prosecutors' Law and Adjudications of Laws and Laws under the Law of Laws and Laws and Orders; Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan; 1512 Notary Law 59. The Law Proposal for the Resolving of Laws Against Diseases of Noters, İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayaydın; Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors 2802; Justice and Development Party Chairs Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahrimarash MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı; 33 MPs to be held under the Law of Justices and Laws and Laws, and Laws of the Laws of Laws and Laws and Laws; We are going to be able to negotiated with İstanbul MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Bema Line, and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancıcı; 33 MPs to be held under the Constitutional Committee of Justices. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 655 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0077par0024	Mr. President, I'd like to start with a procedure discussion.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0072par0025	Mr. Sky, if you want to take your place, get into the system, better heard by other friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0077par0027	Mr. President, the Law Proposal No. 655, which comes to the agenda of the House, is a violation of the Constitution as of many articles. Many of the provisions brought in here were supposed to be examined by the Constitutional Commission and to come before the Assembly after the Constitutional Commission was inspected. Therefore, we make a claim against the Constitution that we consider very important and that there are serious violations against the basic rule of law that affect the Turkish judicial system at the root, and I demand a legal debate on this issue.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0072par0028	Now, this is, of course, delivered to us as a request while some of the laws are being discussed, and I have to repeat it every time. This proposal has been discussed in the Commission, the number of rows has been taken and suppressed. From this point on, you will, of course, make claims of violation of the Constitution and the General Assembly will make a decision. I have nothing to do as a councilor or as Acting Speaker, but I'm still going to open a discussion of procedure, stating that this is my position. Now, in your favor... let's settle this, folks. Are you in favor, Mr. Levent?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0078par0031	Against you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0072par0032	Levent Gök is against Hasip Kaplan; I'll say Mr. Halaçoglu is in favor, Mr. Ahmet Aydın is in favour of... In my favor, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0079par0039	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, of course, have objected to the procedure of our CHP Group Deputy President, Mr. Levent Sky, before we begin negotiations in this bill, which has changed certain laws and regulations with Judges and Prosecutors' Law number 655. In fact, in many laws, these objections have been put forward. You've just stated, Mr. President, that there is no such thing as a demand, which you can't discuss, that you can't completely claim the violation of a law that goes down to the General Assembly after it's been discussed in the commissions. So here, the law that comes in needs to be discussed. Because the 38th article of our Civil Code is also very clear. For one thing, there is no hierarchical order between commissions. The Constitutional Commission is not above all commissions. All commissions examine their proposals or proposals if they have claims of violation of the Constitution in the first place. The Justice Commission also examined these allegations of violation of the Constitution, and they were all rejected. Thus, when we look at Article 38 of our Civil Charter, the Commission is obliged to first examine whether the bill or proposals referred to to them are contrary to the text and spirit of the Constitution. ▪ If a commission sees that a bill or proposal is contrary to the Constitution, it rejects it before it can negotiate the articles. Well, the commission didn't see it, refused, and came to the General Assembly. After arriving at the General Assembly, Article 84 of the Civil Code is very clear. The amendment motions for violations of the Constitution have been proposed in Article 84: ▪ The motions for rejection of a bill or a proposal during the consultation of a bill or proposal in the General Assembly are voted before other proposals, for the grounds that a specific clause of the proposal is contrary to the Constitution. • So what is this? If you have a motion for violation of the Constitution after you have been submitted to Articles, this motion will be processed, discussed before other proposals, given by the General Assembly's discretion. Therefore, it is not possible that this bill, which has come into the General Assembly's agenda and is about to be discussed, will be removed from the process on the charge of violation of the Constitution. From this point of view, it wasn't right to open this discussion of procedure, but Mr. President, he was kind again, as usual.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0080par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0079par0045	He runs the House with real kindness, grace, vast insight, tolerance, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0080par0046	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0079par0047	However, Mr. President has opened up this debate of procedure, has opened it, but as the President put it, the Presidential Court has nothing to do with it at this time. Article 84 is applied after it is passed on to the substances. If you have such a claim, your motion, you process them in matter, you submit them to the discretion of the General Assembly. From this point of view, the Presidential Court is in place.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0080par0049	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0079par0050	We're in favor of it, and we think this law should begin its negotiations. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0080par0053	Thank you. Against him, Mr. Levent Gök will speak, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0081par0056	Mr. President, we're discussing an important law proposal. In state life, the continuity of state rules and institutions is essential. A state life is built according to the laws, customs, and customs of the fundamental institutions of the state that have been going on for years. When you look at the entire civilized world, behind every major institution is a centuries-old collection of history, culture, and social savings. The Law Proposal 655 that we are meeting today is being brought to our attention in a very fundamental way, in a disturbing way, to the fundamental institutions and rules of the Turkish judicial system. It's not coming as a cabinet bill. This bill, brought to parliament by AKP MPs without the opinion of the parliament or any of the experts, is truly disruptive in terms of the Turkish justice system. Most of the provisions are against the Constitution, my dear friends. The 7th article seeks to reshape the Turkish judicial system with regulations that allow judges to enter law schools without a test, and to retain equality in front of the Constitution's law, the class, the non-privilegable clause, the judiciary and the State's tens of years of rooted savings in an instant. That is a very wrong attitude. Of course, if there's a social need, there are initiatives that are required by the understanding of all such fundamental matters, but it is unacceptable to play so much with the judicial system, by trusting in the numerical majority, by trusting in the superiority of the numerical majority, by bringing down the boards and institutions. Besides, do my AKP MP friends, for example, know a law proposal, a bill given by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in 2007, in which the Court will increase its number of apartments and members? So, what need has arisen today from this bill that reduces the number of members of the Supreme Court to an offer that increases the Court's number of agencies and members, and why do we upset our basic institutions? All such matters must be discussed separately and audited in accordance with the Constitution. This law must be extradited to the Constitutional Commission, and must come here after the Constitutional Commission has audited its compliance with the Constitutional Commission. My dear friends, what we're doing is not a simple business, and I'm just saying that so none of us can get under it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I also declare myself against the President's attitude, and I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0082par0063	Thank you, Mr. Sky. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Yusuf Halaçoğlu will speak instead of Mr. Faruk Bal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0083par0068	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of Mr. President's position, but this is an opportunity created by the Civil Code. I would like to discuss my attitude in accordance with the Constitution. Dear friends, the Constitution is the foundation that binds all the organs of legislation, execution and judiciary. The Constitution, which is this fundamental democratic organisation, of course, is current in all its provisions, as it is everywhere, connects us and Mr. President, who is currently serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's no exception. The search for the exception is not a democratic act. Because in the parliamentary democratic system, the rule of law is fundamental, and at the top of the rule of law is the Constitution. When we came to this proposal, this offer came to us as an arrangement for the status of notaries, dear friends, and an arrangement for improving the social and economic status of judges and prosecutors. But as soon as he set out, he became a freak who went after him, like a bag of sacks. Everyone was surprised, there were some mergers at the Justice Commission, but we couldn't change the essence. Its essence is this: With this bag turned into a law, the goal is to obtain a majority in the HSYK; one, to obtain the majority in the Court; and three, to obtain the majority in the Supreme Court. To this end, new apartments are established for the Supreme Court and the State, and the world's obeseest prosecution is being made the world's most obese Supreme Court. It's not only that, but in order to establish political superiority of all departments in the Supreme Court, the Council of the Presidential Board is given authority to do the work section of the apartments under the First Presidential Council in the Supreme Court, which individuals will serve as members; it is more and more and more determined which offices will be assigned to which apartments. This has nothing to do with the state of law, the independence of the judiciary, the neutrality, the guarantee of a judge. This proposal eliminates the judge's independence, neutrality, and the possibility that the judiciary can be kept as a constitutionally strengthened institution with such protections. Thus, this is contrary to the dozens of articles you will list from the second article of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0084par0072	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0083par0073	He controls the agenda of the House. There are allegations of a violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0084par0076	Thank you. The last speaker in the Usul debate is Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0085par0080	Mr. President, you are a lawyer, Mr. President, and you know very well that the law does not change the Constitution. The European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights, and the Convention of Civil and Political Rights shall not change any of them, after which this Parliament has signed, and is on Turkey's side according to Article 90. So, why are you guys bringing in these laws on purpose? See, now, these laws... I'm going to read a few articles from the Constitution: you bring reasonable doubt about safety and freedom. You've brought reasonable doubt in this law, the Constitution says that those who have strong signs of his guilt... are now bringing in secret listening, as if it weren't enough, that everyone was already resting. ▪ The privacy of private life, Constitution 20. Now, as much as you want, a judge will be able to decide whether to search or not to listen to all of Turkey as much as he wants. You remove the immunity of the dwelling, you remove the freedom of communication. I mean, these provisions you've brought don't reflect the necessity of being a democratic society. It's against the law, it's against the Civil Code, it's against the Constitution. You're gonna hit the Supreme Court. I counted three items here in the bag law, and I shot my hand, and I said these three will turn, and all three of them returned. That's what I'm telling you, it's gonna come back, guys. But you're used to, I don't know, making laws every two days. So, how's he doing? We'll do it again. What's it gonna be? The Constitutional Court will not reverse its decision. But you will need this law, this country, this justice. I mean, in your house, you put it in this law to criticize the government, where there's a wiretap and there's always cameras, there's a secret witness, there's a wiretap, there's a wiretap. The property of the critic of the government is being seized until its rights to the third party. The European Convention on Human Rights No. 1. The Lu Subcommittee Protocol violates everything. Now, even this law that violates everything, even if we meet here and skip the Constitutional Commission, ignore the constitutional provisions here, we'll take it out. I say, take it out, take it out, run it any way you want, but the date will not forgive the lawyers in the EC PARTI, write it down; you're wrong; you're wrong; you're wrong; you're wrong; you're wrong, you're wrong-- we're going to go to the election in five months, you're going to do an honorable job on this election, and you're going to do no honorable work on this kind of printing laws. Mr. President, I swear, I'll see you. You can say that, but there's nothing to discuss here.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0086par0085	Thank you very much. Of course, I know that the Constitution is an upper text because I'm a lawyer, but there's another rule of law that I know of, which is that there's nothing I can do about the Constitution right now. I don't have to make any changes for that reason in my attitude. Now, we'll begin negotiations on the entire proposal. First speaker on behalf of the groups, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Democratic Party Group of Rights. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0087par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you. What do we think of this package, the package of judgment, that will bring disaster to Turkey, 655 rows? What do you want to do? No law in Turkey, no justice, no peace where there is no justice, my friends. Where there's no justice, where there's no rights? Now, we're discussing an offer that will turn all Turkey into an open prison -- I call it an open prison. After this offer -- I'll tell you what's going to happen in this proposal -- the security package will be delivered here to the Internal Affairs Commission. Here, in this package given to the Internal Affairs Commission, there are circumstances that complete this package. So I'll tell you this, you'll go to a magistrate in Ankara and the magistrate will decide that for three hundred and sixty-five days, everyone will be heard, watched, followed... can you imagine? There's a lot of judges. If you look at their Facebook pages, they'll find out what they're writing about... people like that. And why does the government need this here? That's the problem. Look, we had three legal proposals. One, to ensure a full fair trial, the independent justice has a trifecta, advocacy and judgment. The 6th article of the European Convention on Human Rights speaks clearly of a concept called the equality of weapons, meaning the equality of claims and defense. We've seen them in extraordinary courts, martial law, eco-management, DGM, private court, private authorities, prosecutors at one time considered themselves kings rather than prosecutors, doing what they wanted, even the King and his will -- the Anti-Terror Act remains, you haven't removed -- in any investigation they've asked for, they want a confidentiality order to prevent the lawyer from reviewing the file. In this way, the defense can't examine the file, can't look at the technical evidence, can't find the confidential witnesses, can't know what his client is accused of, doesn't know why he's being charged, doesn't know what he's being charged with, and those people are locked up in this country for months, years, even four years, five years, and they're staying right now. Mashallah, there's still 158,000 in prisons... the Justice Minister explained. We offered the law, and we said, "Look, this arrangement is crippled. Independent judgment begins with the right to holy defence. Whosoever transgresses the sacred right to defend himself, whoso destroys the sacred right to defend himself, will also eliminate justice. Now, we are looking against this arrangement that we have made, and what has been done here? The government did the opposite. So the prosecutor's request, if it is discovered in Article 26 that the investigation would jeopardize the purpose of the investigation, can't examine the defence file with a judge's decision. Now, can you talk about judgment here? The prosecutor will know, the judge will know; the lawyer won't know, he won't defend himself. You're bringing this. Is this in accordance with Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights? The equality of the guns in his third joke is not appropriate. What about the Civil and Political Rights Convention? It's not right for him either. So, why are you bringing this on purpose? Why do you need this? Look, you're violating a very basic universal rule of law. So the rule you're violating in Turkey is nothing more than to silence lawyers and bar bars in a judgment that is already not independent, which is not already neutral, which is not already functioning. We know a lot of dictators who want to silence lawyers. Napoleon said that lawyers should be cut off. So we can also think of other examples. Our President of the Justice Commission can also present some very good examples. So why is he so afraid of lawyers and defenses, why? Why is that? Can anyone tell me why? The reason is because when he puts his opponents away, no one is asked to speak up. Look, you guys just made arrangements here five or six months ago about the State's Attorney's office law, the administrative court, the recrimination courts. When making arrangements, you clearly said: "This reform of the judiciary is revolutionary. " You are not tired of making revolutions every day. You're going out in what you call revolution in three or five months. You said, 75 percent of the workload of the judiciary will be reduced by the supreme courts. You said, 75 percent. Brother, if 75 percent is down, those Supreme Court offices will be reduced, the offices in the D.A.'s office will be reduced, and it will be a technical upper-judgment audit. What are you guys doing now? Mashallah, you're raising it. Why are you raising it? Why do you need it? Why do you need this if you've put in so many recriminations? Do you know what this is called? He'll be my judge, he'll do as I say, he'll make my choice. Have fear of God, you have set up the judicial system in haste, the last package has come out. However, despite that hasty trial, the decision to stop an execution -- especially in energy, minerals, coal mines -- has not been issued in a month. I thought the trial was over in a month. While 6,000 olive trees were being cut down, dozers and dozers crushed the olives. Your government protected all the rich and rich. The court's decision came later, sir, after the execution was cut down. What kind of emergency judgment was that? That emergency trial... I mean, couldn't an electronic decision have reached the Soma judge, the judge in Soma, could it not have been reported to the police immediately? It would have been reported. Which means that nepotism worked differently here, too. Now, yesterday you passed this law and today you're arguing against it. What is the matter with you? How did your needs change in five months, and why? You're obsessed with reasonable doubt? Well, didn't you bring it? There is strong doubt based on concrete evidence in the Constitution, which is what I just read in the Constitution: are there strong signs of guilt in the Constitution? I do. Is there a European Convention on Human Rights? There is, of course, in Article 5 of the law, in security and freedom of the person, in preparation, in preparation -- be careful -- looking for strong symptoms, evidence, when it's first picked up. In the last investigation, he seeks reasonable doubt. Now you bring reasonable doubt. 77 million of our people are all reasonable suspects to you, I'll give you that. I mean, any citizen who walks around with a potential criminal could commit a crime at any time. So what do we do? Let's bring in strong doubt, bring in reasonable doubt, catch him, lock him up. Throw who out? I don't suppose you'll be throwing out your own members. There are three opposition parties, and then there are non-parliament parties. You'll throw out the one who makes the noise. That's not enough. Now, brother, don't we all know that crime against parliament, crime against the President, crime against the government, all crimes against the state, all of which are aggravated punishment, severe life? If that's the case, do you know what it's like to take possession of property against the government that you've added to these substances again? What's that supposed to mean? Confiscate your assets, get what you can and get the third person's rights? The press will silence you. If he writes, I will silence you. If he is a political opponent, I will silence you, I will seize your house and your property, and you have defied the government. I need a judge's decision, and I'll find a judge. Keep quiet, or I will seize your goods. There was no such arrangement even during Shuppilium. Such a pleasant arrangement is nowhere in the world. I mean, just to protect the government, don't seize the estates, the rights, and the credits. Why? It's against the government. My brother, it's all there. You're giving him a life sentence, a life sentence; he'll never come out of prison again, and you want to punish his family and his family with his assets. I mean, if his wife is hungry, his kids are hungry, they're all miserable, they've got a house, take it away, they're all out on the street, is that what you want? It's about conscience, it's about humanity, it's not just about law, it's about morality. Who can one do such cruelty to? Just because he criticised you, an opponent... Look, I'm looking at article 23 of the proposal. Didn't you make the decisions about listening to communications unanimous, brother, why did you regret it? You don't have the intel? Isn't the MIT under the Prime Minister's orders? Can't he listen as he pleases, can't watch as he pleases, can't he follow as he pleases? He's doing it. So, why are you bringing this back? Yes, there's power at your disposal. Why are you bringing this back? You'll spread it to the city police, the gendarmes, the Coast Guard, the private security, the detective offices... This government is becoming a detective government, friends, and it's out of government, and it's gonna be a detective. His job is to listen and follow. Follow up on the follow-up, guys, when the election gets close, these follow-up jobs come out. What kind of surveillance? Blackmail tapes, wiretaps, privacy, violations of personal rights and freedoms, removal of housing immunity, violation of privacy... look, how many crimes I've counted. You will take care of all of this under a provision of the CMK 140. The most primitive tribe has its law, its conscience, its mercy, its limits, my friends. Can you tell me where this border is here? Now, with the law of society under such a dictatorship, what can you solve? We're against it. What did we say? We made an offer, and we said, "Look, there's a secret investigator's case, so don't go into it, and don't go into the privacy of the people." You're conservative men, you're people, you're highly recommended for decency, you value things called privacy, you don't value them, you don't care about action, you don't spy on everyone who comes in your way, you don't peep on them, you don't give them to the Internet, you don't give them to the TV, you don't make them immoral, you take precautions. In the face of this proposal of the law, what you're offering is a terrible offer, it's a travesty. It's not just a scandal, it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace, it's a murder of the law, it's a collapse of the law, it's a disgrace! If that's what the lawyers are doing, they should all get a good medal from that law commission. You know, there aren't always positive medals.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0088par0106	In February, you were speaking the opposite of that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0087par0107	The worst thing is not to give away the prize, but sometimes to give away the reward. I'll look into the worst legal award in the law, find a method, and I'll present it to you when it's over. Now, look, the constraint in Article 26 of the bill... look, why do you need a confidential witness in court, why do you need a secret investigation? Yeah, look, let's be clear, there's a statement from a confidential investigator who's going to be arrested and his property is going to be seized and when he's looking for rights, and when he's looking for rights, he's going to have a statement. Is there such a witness system? I thought we brought in the cross-examination system. I thought we brought an individual application to the Supreme Court. What happened when you brought it? In three years, Turkey has again been promoted to number 4 in the European Court of Human Rights. There are over 10,000 applications now. Do you know that he came to the fourth place? Despite the Constitutional Court's blockade, you are in the fourth place with over 10,000 applications. If the Supreme Court hadn't applied for an individual application, there would have been over 50,000 applications. Why? What's more than that in a country where there's so much law, where there's so much injustice? Now, these were the key points, the ones we were highlighting. It's about the Supreme Court, the State... it's a shame, don't mess with the legal years, don't mess with the ceremony. Hey, don't legalize personal whims, guys. Today, Feyzioğlu is president of the Bar Association, and tomorrow someone else will come. This is the Feyzioğlu law. You've made the law of the Turkish Bar Association, Feyzioglu law. You put the judges and prosecutors on the ban. What were their sins? Let's say you don't tolerate an opponent, you remove him too, what about the disciplinary pardons of judges and prosecutors? Would you mind telling us, Mr. Secretary, how many judges, prosecutors, have been charged with disciplinary action, what disciplinary action have they received? We have friends from the D.A.'s office, from the judge's office. Where's Shuay in AK PARTY? Mr. Suha is here. I hope you guys have a good talk about this. So the parallel has a lot of disciplinary measures? Is that what this pardon is about? Or, I'm asking you, if a judge has been sentenced to disciplinary action for a truly shameful crime, are you going to promote him? Now, without impounding the lawyer's file, to the Council of Presidents, to the new authorities... look, fellas, don't make this case simple. Soon 46 thermal plants -- HES -- will be privatized, 25 sugar factories will be privatized, and if I count their numbers, you'll be amazed. So, all this subcontractorization, privatisation, this persecution, this rebellion, death in the furnaces... all of this was being decided to stop running in the State Court, administrative court. And the effort to save it by designing it your way... it's all yours. This isn't gonna work, you guys. You're doing it wrong. Eight new apartments to the Supreme Court... is there a crime explosion in Turkey? Crimes go off, or what? Eight more apartments after all those recrimination hearings. Or did you tell everyone... that there will be a thousand files, a stack of files, so let's take the stand? No, guys, we're against this, we're against despotism, we're against this kind of illegality. And I say it won't get you anything, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0089par0114	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0090par0118	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who have been on the public agenda for a long time, have finally come to the General Assembly of the Law Proposal No. 655. Of course, we should start by saying that in the past February, we made an important change in the name of the package of judgment, not enough, but another change in June 2014. Both were named after judicial reform. We're taking back the changes we made in February right now. Now, if that's judicial reform, what is it? Is this reform reform?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0091par0120	Rereform, rereform...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0090par0121	Now, that's the first thing to focus on: Why was such a change motivated? Secondly, there's one thing we need to focus on: if in one country, especially the country's parliament talks about the judiciary so much, there's a problem with the democracy of that country. If the name of the members of the judiciary in a country is synonymously decorated with movie artists, newspaper pages, television screens, there is a problem with democracy in that country. The structure of the judgment has been played a lot. Indeed, there are many years of problems in judgment. There's also been evidence of politicalisation in the judiciary from time to time. We've seen in the past that most of these attempts at politicalisation in the judiciary are individual. However, when a referendum was held on September 12, 2010, it became institutional after that referendum. At the same time, the coalition, which constituted power at the time, took place step by step in the operation to take over the judiciary in a certain solidarity. But, however, a force that always dominates the country, if it's in a coalition structure, it's inevitable that after a while, the battle of powers will emerge. What's happening today is a battle of power to dominate power, to take part in more pies. And the one who is superior in the battle of power, at this point, wants to make that political step in the judiciary even further by making it seem as an enemy to the structure that he's digested, sort of silenced, in a sense pushed back into the milk. This bill is not a reform. This is nothing but a means of a firmer foot in judgment. Today, of course, the problem is that within 2014, we're making about three changes in similar issues, and the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's entire shift offers that law... Which I'm sure my friends who signed under that offer had no news of, because during the commission's work, we all knew that the amendments to the bill had been carried out by the Ministry's bureaucrats, and a structure prepared in a kitchen was put in front of us. Well, if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliament of a country, is making three amendments to the same kind of legislation in the same year, it has to have a name, we have to name it. It's called abuse of legislature, pure and simple. I praise the friends who voted from the Justice and Development Party. They have an offer from their own friends, because of that blockage, and there's an offer from their government, so they feel the need to approve. But in the future, we'll make such a judgment against the Turkish Penal Code, which is a need. Today, legislature is abused. In Turkey, we have faced many legal regulations in the time of different governments, but in no administration, we have not seen such special arrangements. Oh, it's not enough with that, but at the moment of today, it's also changing the law according to time and ground. So, in February 2014, as soon as the doors are knocked on December 17th, a decision is made, it says: "Now there will be strong doubt based on concrete evidence to search for a house." The environment is being provided for the defenses to examine the whole of the file, and at the moment that comes today, the HSYK -- the former HSYK -- is changing as it was in its structure, acting differently than it was before -- it's more on the side of the existing sovereign force. After that, new HSYK elections are being held, and now, new coalitions are being formed, there's a new coalition. We see that power is now in search of new partners and has found this. We don't know how much that's going to go, and when it's safe, the Supreme Court is making significant changes starting with the structure of the State. Today, one of the most important ways to understand the pressure on the judiciary is that Mr. President is the first person to explain such arrangements to the public. Among the duties of the President, you will offer this bill to the Parliament or to the MPs in Parliament. There is no suggestion, and there is no hint. This is a direct intervention in the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But, whether it's a security package, whether it's a legal arrangement, we've heard it from Mr. President in the first place, so Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Justice has been bypassed at a point like this, and I'm afraid -- I think yesterday -- Mr. President has used the word "traitor" about a judge. Politicians may sometimes say words to each other that exceed their purpose, even insult each other, but they cannot accuse a judge of treason unless proven by the President of a country, and they have said that because he has decided to stop running it in the Galataport tender. Well, it's important to ask him in action: I mean, he invested a lot of money in Galataport, he invested millions in it, it's good for the country, but two years later, it's treason to stop running about it. He said something like that. So, well, are the D.A. members of the D.A. who decided to stop the execution in the process of cutting down 6,000 olive trees about the Kolin Construction plant? Why, Mr. President, who has been so sensitive to the subject of action, has not said a word since 2007, for those whose homes have been unjustly raided in the morning, unjustly detained, in prison for years, without cause, without explanation? We know about the intervention in the Turkish Armed Forces. In particular, how does he assess the operation against the elite, contemporary, knowledgeable Navy, Mr. President? Any sign of treason in the intervention there? Have we ever heard a word from you about him? If you're going to bring up treason in the case of money, but when the intellectuals of this country are locked up, you won't be able to say a word, then you'll see them as enemies when they come out and gather in front of the village in Squash, in the morning. (CHP cheers) That's insincere. As for the law, the first six articles, in the context of the first six articles, are the regulations concerning the Notary Law, and when it comes to matter, friends will explain. The 7th article is clearly a violation of the Constitution. Administrators who have not graduated from law are granted access to administrative judges, prosecutors, and members of the State without exams. This is clearly contrary to the equality of opportunity in our Constitution. The first joke of Article 45 of the Higher Education Law is as follows: "In placement of the universities of the State is determined by the SEC. " The first joke, however, is that at one point, it's very odd to give the first joke a free pass: administrative judges will be able to sign up for law school without a test, provided they work for five years. First of all, that's disrespectful to judges. Your rule of law is not enough for these judges, you are not properly in control. So we're also giving you the right to go to law school. It's not right. Second, thousands of people graduate from nearly a hundred law schools. Our young people have to work around lawyers for a penny. It is truly disrespectful to those young people to be given a privilege, that they should become lawyers only after their professions. In this regard, we've been very careful with the Commission's work, but unfortunately it's been ignored. One of the things is actually the 11th article. This makes a difference in Article 14 of the Court's Law. Now, as a member of the State, it was completely removed from law, political sciences, economics, and education. Now, any ordinary person will be assigned to the litigation offices. On the basis of the reduction of twenty-seven years to be elected as a member of the State, I believe there are several people who will enter the 17-year bar, who have been asked to be included in the list. A similar change is being made in the Supreme Court Law, which Mr. Kaplan has just said. The Supreme Court and the State are elected members. I have a bill, dated 2007, signed by the Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Article 1 contains a amendment to Article 5 of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has 13 laws, 7 prisons and 150 members at most. What's happening now? 23 law, 23 criminal departments, 516 Supreme Court members will be elected. The number of student judges in the Supreme Court is 1,308. Almost 2 student judges get one member down, and the Supreme Court is inflated like a balloon. The main objective here, of course, is the workload, not this one. There is a current structure in the Supreme Court, in June 2014, an arrangement was made to disable this structure. As part of this arrangement, the goal was not intended because the alliance of the legal arrangement in June 2014 was broken in the Supreme Court. With a bit of individual initiative by the current Supreme Court's president, a presidential committee has been formed that is not desirable. Now this is wanted to be replaced. What's to be done about it? 129 new members will be elected to the Supreme Court, the structure of the Supreme Court will be changed, the presidential board which was formed only recently in June will be abolished and replaced. Until what? If that understanding continues, believe me, one day the number of members of the Supreme Court will be nearly outnumbered in the number of judges on the stand. It's a comedy, it's a pity, it's a shame to make judgment that way. At this point, it is not right for the Supreme Court examiners to be left entirely to the HSYK. The heads of the office at the Supreme Court... I recommend this: this will change the structure with the new ones, so don't go through this arrangement. The heads of the office at the Supreme Court will ask the examiners to work together. Giving HSYK the right to choose student judges in the Supreme Court means that a Supreme Judiciary, which is a direct, autonomous structure, should not be allowed to enter the command of HSYK. You've already broken it, you've always broken a jigsaw puzzle, and I'd say don't mess it up any more. Of course, he's got a foreign organization to organize, but there are three more important issues. When the Union platform was formed in the judiciary, the judges and prosecutors on this platform met with the Prime Minister and made a statement at the exit, they said: "One, our salary will be increased." Two, we'll get a cheap gun. Three, there will be a disciplinary pardon. Let me put it this way: Turkey has a total of 13,000 and 14,000 judges and prosecutors in administrative court and judicial court. Right now it's HSYK 3. There are 7,000 complaints in the apartment. I mean, every two judges have complained from the prosecutor -- if we're going to think otherwise. Some of them are truthful, and some of them are fictional. In the meantime, we've seen 59 judges, prosecutors out of business, we know. There's an important point here, and I want to stay on top of it. There's a record pardon coming in, and I think it's a very righteous attempt, and I know that a lot of judges are being unfair to the prosecutor. Men have been persecuted, and punishments have been given from water to earth, just because he is a tyrant. 13 judges were investigated in a court of law, one of whom was acquitted and one of whom was punished -- let's just say -- 12 of whom was suffering from the same crime -- just for show. In this regard, it is positive, but because of the verbs that have been committed from 1/4/2005 to 1/9/2013, why is such a date set now? 1/5/2005 is the date of the previous record pardon, which is reasonable. Well, if you say, why September 1, 2013? Because, you know, in Ergenekon cases, there was a prosecutor who was very famous during this December 17th period, and his departure date was September 2, 2013. Do you understand, dear friends? I mean, something like this was done to get him involved in the investigation.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0092par0136	It's personal!
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0090par0137	If you're going to do this, please, include all of them, or don't put time in here, I particularly beg of you. Now, of course, when we get to the materials, we're going to do some special evaluations, but my time is short, so I'm just going to make one point. Although I have insisted on the Commission's mandate to review the defendant's case, the crime of establishing an organization to commit a crime has been taken into account as a catalog. This is an arrangement that will limit the examination of the case to the end. I say that this must be removed from the text of the substance in particular, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0093par0140	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. İstanbul MP Murat Basesgioğlu will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0094par0144	Mr. President, members of the High Council, I have been promised the views of the National Movement Party on the Law Proposal 655 rows. At the beginning of my words, on behalf of myself and our group, I salute your grand delegation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the beginning of my words, perhaps due to the procedure, I would like to bring to your attention one thing: the beginning of this proposal was to improve the rights of our judges and prosecutors before the election. Then, with two separate law proposals being offered, a proposal reached up to 52 articles of law is now at hand. As this healing issue delays, of course, there will be services for Parliament, and they will say: "Ya, the opposition is delaying the meeting of this law, so our judges and prosecutors will be delayed in reaching their wages."
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0095par0146	We won't, we won't.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0094par0147	Anyway, there are riveting substances to make the law go fast. And the riveting ingredient of this proposal is the foreseen improvement for our judges and prosecutors. We have an offer here, and we say, "Let the government or the Commission take the bill to the Commission, and I promise on behalf of Mr. Halaçoglu, we'll have our judges' salaries on that Commission within the hour." In an hour, he'll be passing through the House. Tomorrow, Turkey, Parliament will wake up with a 1.155 TL improvement in the salaries of our judges and prosecutors; this is my first suggestion. If you say that's not gonna happen late at night, we're tired or something, then this improvement will take place on the head of the relevant substance starting on 1 November 2014. Let's say this law goes on because you've been working until Sunday, so no one should accuse opposition parties for no reason.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0096par0149	I'll tell you in advance. You say.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0094par0150	Whichever you choose, whether we go to the Commission or to be valid here on November 1st 2014... let's submit the declaration as a motion, and we're ready for both. My dear friends, we find this positive, this improvement is good, in most countries, they don't give judges a salary, they give them a paycheck, they give them a check, there's no money, there's no judge's money. For him, the improvement in the judges' salaries is crucial to justice, but this improvement does not reflect on their pensions, and it still doesn't reflect on our retired judges and prosecutors. It's a flaw, and we want that to happen. There are valuable executives who produce justice services in court alongside our judges and prosecutors. Who's there? There are editors, executive managers, clerks, clerks, bailiffs. There's no improvement to any of this. These need to be done, too. In fact, these salary improvements should be involved for all public employees who work in public. For example, now, there's a huge gap between the estate and the courthouse. There's a judge in the same county, a governor, there's a huge difference. Again, because it's the Department of Justice, there are execution guards working in detention and detention, there are psychologists, there are teachers. I'm afraid the compensations we accepted for them in the subcommittee have been greatly reduced. For example, the compensation we accepted as 130 per cent for managers has been reduced to 30 per cent. That's not fair, we all agreed on that in the subcommittee. So, these need to be corrected, and at the point where it's being corrected, we're offering you two high-profile offers. In fact, these judges and prosecutor's salaries need to be granted a constitutional guarantee, so judges and prosecutors must not wait at the mercy of the government and wait for a raise. How did advanced democracies solve this? They've divided between 2 per cent of the GDP and 6 per cent of the GDP into a judicial budget; the judge and the prosecutor or the justice ministry knows that this is my judiciary budget in the 2015 budget, and this is my improvement to judge and prosecutor and justice workers. Now, if I remember correctly, our 2014 Department of Justice budget is 48/1,000ths, not even 1%. I read it this year, from the Minister's presentation, it says 1.66. I don't know if that's an illegal product or a cut of the budget's total funding, but even 1.6 is a small number for the judiciary budget. More than that, these judges and prosecutors' salaries must be guaranteed a constitutional guarantee. As a result, this is a matter of collateral and judicial independence. My dear friends, when we come to the proposal, I need to say a few words about this quality of legislation, if I may. At very short intervals, our friends in the same group proposed three separate laws that coincided with each other. Plus, there are three drafts and proposals that have been passed by commissions that are now on the agenda of Congress. Instead of reasonable doubt, the case of the lawyer's access to the file and the bill, which envisions setting up two apartments in the State Department, is now waiting in Parliament. So, the bill came in, we discussed it on commissions, a lot of work, a lot of energy, who's going to pay for it? In fact, if life and execution were separate, why did you take up the law of the law of the law, O government, to keep me occupied so long, brother? He has to ask the government again, why are you meeting and having me renegotiate in front of this bill when three laws are standing here? But our burden is a matter of the same nature of life and governance, and it is intertwined. Now, there's an attraction to the judiciary, and we want to raise the judgment in one hand at the same point of default. The definition of this in political literature is the only party state. I'll be with you in a minute about the party state. I'd like to share some of the things today regarding our Prime Minister's group speech. Yeah, I got three offers right here. Our friends told me, Mr. Omar told me. Four months ago, we changed reasonable doubt, and now we're back to reasonable evidence. We've changed the lawyer's access to the file before, and now we're making it old, and it's become a puzzle, so in such short periods of time, the impromptuness disrupts the quality of legislation and disrupts the quality of living, and unfortunately, we don't leave a good example. More specifically, when we examine the proposal, at first, the 6 articles are related to the Notary Law. What we're going to pay attention to here is the protection of personal data, the protection of privacy. The President of the Association of Notarys came, and we asked clearly, "No, there is no concern." We don't have any objection to these 6 clauses, but we do wish the notary community well. Sir, I'd like to bring to your attention the date of the record pardon from 14/2/2005 to 1/9/2013. This is a time gap that will limit and cause victims. We certainly think it's a good idea to bring it back to the date of the year-2013, at least when the law comes out. At the point of the lawyer's access to the file, Mr. Secretary has also tried, some changes have been made, crimes considered, but that's not enough, there has to be a deadline, to remove the confidentiality decision of the case. Again, the crime catalog is being expanded in search, movers, seizure of rights and gains, listening to communication, monitoring measures with technical tools. What are we adding? The above measures apply in the investigation of crimes against state security and the functioning of this order... I mean, they're all political crimes, the charges of these crimes are too heavy, they start from prison for life. Surely, these must be followed very carefully in practice. There's an arrangement for lawyers to take the judge and the prosecutor's exam after they've completed their three-year term. However, it is also the third of the 14th article of Law 2575. The joke is being lifted, the obligation to graduate from political, administrative sciences, economics and finances, which includes legal information for members who will serve in prosecutorial litigation agencies. A person who has completed his degree from medicine and from veterinary school is now eligible to serve as a member at any of the Court's offices. Don't take it as a profession. I'm a lawyer, everyone has to protect their profession. There's over a hundred law schools. These young children have eyes and ears here, saying, "Let our brothers take care of us, and keep their professions." Those of us who are lawyers, our young lawyers who are demanding access to other professions, are not doing well. With all these job requests, it's not right to recruit from other majors, other disciplines, but it needs to be changed. It also means a radical change in the design of judges in our country that has been established for years. Judgement is a career, so it's good for him to be chosen by the science of law and that is close to the methodology of law. Other than that, lawmakers, one of the most important features of this bill is that it makes significant changes in the structure and functioning of the Supreme Court and the State. We've done this before. For example, in the last law we passed on the Supreme Court, we said: "Let's not separate the judicial offices of the Supreme Court. " Let the Grand General Assembly decide how many prisons there will be, how many law offices there will be. We made the law in this way, perhaps it was the right thing to do, but now we are interfering with it; there are 38 apartments, we are raising it to 46. Mr. Omar said very well, and in 2007, I remember very well, a government bill came to Parliament, and it was said: "We're going to the council now." We'll set up district courts, there won't be a ton of files coming to the State, the Supreme Court, and most of the indictments will be dealt with. A Supreme Court of 150 members and a reduced number of apartments. Now, friends, we have the world's largest Supreme Court with 46 apartments with 516 members. With that understanding, it replaces the bidet court, becomes the first-degree courts; it's a false design. Oh, you'll say we have a conjunctural problem right now, an emergency. We're not in a position to listen to you, we're not doing 46, we're doing 86. But we won't do anything good, we'll have to come back from this tomorrow. The appointment of the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors of the Supreme Court will be appointed. The HSYK says nothing to the BDDK, I don't know, higher boards, but the head of an office in the Supreme Court can't get a coroner if he wants to. Who's going to appoint him? He's going to transfer HSYK. I mean, it's kind of a rude analogy, but you want to get counsel, and the Speaker says, "You'll get Mehmet, not Ahmet. There's no way to defend that." Yeah, there's a lot of radical changes in the structures of the Supreme Court and the State Department, the number of members is increasing, the number of apartments is increasing, the Council of Presidents is changing, so it's been calculated by millimetric computations as to how to build a structure that can be influenced by the Supreme Court. We have such an opinion, but it's hard to believe that you can defend it in a high opinion of judgment and its sustainability, but unfortunately, you've taken such a course, and despite all our warnings, you're clearly not on the subject of turning back this way. Of course, there's a need for long work on lawmaking, and institutions need their contribution. For example, I don't know about the State of Law, but the Supreme Court hasn't been asked a word. These changes we're talking about, they should actually come from institutions. The Supreme Court must say: "O Parliament, my number of members at the moment is insufficient, the number of apartments is insufficient; please increase this number with a legal arrangement. But the Supreme Court says: "We have just assembled the Council of Presidents, we have made the election four months ago." Now that you're interfering with the law again, this is the third time I've had to choose the First Presidential Board before its deadline. This intervention is an intervention in the independence of the judiciary and the guarantee of the judge, and it is a matter of constitutional disadvantages. Yeah, that's all I've been saying in a nutshell. My dear friends will enlighten our General Assembly on more technical matters in departments and materials, but I'd like to finish my last five minutes today with our President's group speech and evaluations of our Prime Minister's speech. Mr. President of State Gardens today's speech said that the policy of identity that was abused should be ended, that the arguments that started with this lesson riot were unnecessary, that these should end, that our citizens of Alevi have been abused, that they have expressed important things in our group, that they have made a historic mistake by considering our brothers who have the Alevi Islamic faith in the same frame by the rebellion of my class. I want to point out that our brothers and sisters of Alevi Islam are impossible to cross paths with terrorists. No son of his country will be considered to be among the rebels who have set his heart on the Lord and his people. The National Movement Party has not been interested in where no one is from, its native language, its ethnic source, its problems. We have accepted all those who have seen the future in the Turkish nation who have been honored to live under the lunar flag, a piece of our lives and a token of our existence. Now, to this positive approach of our Mr. President, to save this matter from abuse, our Prime Minister says: "O Gardener, is it up to you to defend your one party mentality?" Say these words in Tucson, and say them in Iconium. Dear MPs are the nationalist Movement Party, which has suffered the biggest losses from the one-party mentality, the 1946 coffins and the September 12th tribulation. At extraordinary times, heavy costs have been paid. For him, he advocates the one-party mentality of a single-party action that has paid such a heavy price to the president of a single party. It's a very shallow thought to make a claim. I hope the Prime Minister has outdone himself. Despite their suffering, Turkish nationalists have buried their pain in their hearts and have never attacked the spirit of the state; yes, they have carved into their memory the people of algebra in state suits, but they have not raised their eyebrows to the spiritual person of the state. We know we can't survive without the government. The state is justice, the state is mercy, the state is compassion, a port where we can all take refuge when we're trapped, but unfortunately in recent years, there's been a very severe attack on the spirit of the state. They've done it on various occasions, and I'm afraid the basic pillars of the state are suffering from severe trauma. That's the trouble we're having right now. In fact, in the context of fighting this parallel structure, you've seen that a state image is indispensable, but it's too late. At the point where you're going to fight more than one parallel structure right now, you're going to want to activate the government's murdered functions and dynamics. The late Alparslan Türkesh said: "The lowest political murder in the world is to turn the nation against the state." Yes, for many years there has been great effort to turn this saint nation against the state. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, the tracks were recorded at a certain point. This is the most troubling moment of the social process that we're going through right now. So, my dear friends, I'd like to address everyone without saying, "Don't embrace one party habit." One of the biggest threats we face right now is to get away from democracy and bring Turkey to its only party destination. Don't get caught up in this, don't get carried away, keep our country safe, stay safe from democracy, try to maintain the rule of law, and look for ways to bring Turkey safely to the upcoming elections. Otherwise, we're no good. I'm out of time, I can't go any further. Please, let's get our heads straight and let's fight together for Turkey to survive this great geography without being blown away.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0097par0176	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are over. Now, on behalf of himself, the first speaker...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0098par0179	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0097par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0098par0181	Mr. President, we've all heard him and Mr. President General speak about the belief in Alevi Islam. Let the Flames know what their beliefs are. I don't think it's right to create a new polemic by saying, "Alevi Islam."
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0097par0182	Thank you. Now, we're going to start speaking for him. First speaker, Butler Congressman Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0099par0187	Mr. President, members of the law, we're looking at another judicial package. Before entering this judicial package, I was deeply offended by Mr. Murat Basesgioğlu's speech, stating that there was a period of persecution during the single party period and a period of persecution. The period of the single party is the period of the Ataturk, the period of the Ismet Inönun. Then the Grand Chief was moved to multi-party life by our Mr. President, Ismet Inönu. Of course, at that time, there were sufferings during World War II, so there have been a lot of victims, but our second president, Mr. Ismet Inönu, did not bring this country into the war, and in any way caused people to go through those days of war without bleeding their noses. If it hadn't been for Mr. Ismet Inönun at the time, most of us would have had fathers and grandfathers. One, I want him seen first. I'm not sure I'm comfortable with this unbearable lightness of hitting the Republican People's Party. I think that such talks and talks do us no good, but they do us no harm, and they do us no harm. I pay my respects. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, when we talk about the judicial package, we all know that this package is actually a conjunctural arrangement. So, four months ago, seven months ago changes were being made, and our other friends told us that. Now that we know that all laws have become puzzle boards, we've seen what they've done with the laws of the law, with the regulations, with the legal regulations. I suggest we go back to the AKP Group's factory settings. When you changed the 2010 referendum, the main reason for the change there was to submit the judiciary; to design the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Judges and Prosecutors, as you requested. After you did that, you made changes to the Supreme Court and the Law. You've seen the illegal behavior of that parallel structure as well as what we've been doing in the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases in the past, and what we've been trying to tell you, and what we've been trying to tell you, we've been trying to tell you, you've been doing to yourself. But unfortunately, in the case of corruption and bribery, what you said didn't sound very convincing to the citizens. Many of the citizens say that the corruption and bribery work were done, and we believe that when it was done, you saw yourself in danger, that's when you took those actions to redesign the judiciary for yourself. We know all that. Now, how did these proposals come about? The first offer came on October 2nd, as you all know. What was the first offer? There were changes in the Notary Law, changes in the rights of judges, and a disciplinary pardon for judges and prosecutors. What did you bring this for? There was an HSYK election on October 12th, where you did it to win the hearts of judges and prosecutors, and maybe you did it to blackmail them in a sense, and if you accept it, if you choose an HSYK like we want it, it will pass, or it won't pass. In fact, I think he was a group of you, a vice president, and he said that if we don't do what we want, we'll ignore the election results. I thought you were sticking to the election results. You said you might not recognize the election results here. That was the first offer to the Justice Commission. Then, the HSYK elections were over, and maybe you got close to what you wanted, and on October 14th, the second offer came in. Now that you've felt a little bit more secure, it's that on February 21st, you've made changes to the CMK, where you've been listening to the ministers, the ministers, their children, your own supporters, the technical follow-up, the secret investigators, all those issues, we've been reforming them and democratizing them. At the same time, many catalogal crimes were put into the protection measures at CMK to use these CMK changes against opponents in a sense. Also, on February 21st, you declared that you had lifted the bans on access; the right of access to that file was denied again. Then why were you removing the ban on access? Because in the investigations against you, some of the AKP's officials, lawyers couldn't access those files. The files have been accessed, they've been given surveillance, and now that you think you've eliminated them, you're restoring them.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0100par0197	We're not putting it back the way it was.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0099par0198	We also know the reason for the ban or elimination of judicial year opening ceremonies, the removal of its legal ground. To meet Erdogan's demand and to intimidate the higher judiciary like this, to intimidate lawyers, to threaten the Bar Association, to silence you with legal regulations if we want to. You have brought him to say so. Then you came up with the third offer, the third offer when there were no talks on the Commission. And that third proposal was to redesign the Supreme Court and the State, and you brought this, and you designed the Supreme Court and the State as you would like. In fact, you tried to design the Supreme Court and the State several times, but you didn't get what you wanted. Sadly, the majority of opponents were victims of the Supreme Court and the State's position; Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, and other cases were victims. Because, regardless of any documents, the people in the criminal department of those cases had agreed to the decisions made by these organized judges, given false evidence by these community judges, without checking any documents. They were the most damaged. But, you, of course, are now suggesting a change in that regard, assuming that you may be harmed. And something so contrary to the law technique that you didn't send the last offer to the subcommittee, even though we told them not to rush to the subcommittee. In fact, in the commission phase, there have been changes that have been made over and over again, with proposals, that are unknown, that even the Commissioner does not know what is happening, and that even the friends who gave those motions don't understand what happened. I'm going to try to tell you this, and I'm going to try to tell you what kind of changes are being made. Now, first of all, I'd like to convey to you some of the problems that I care about in the Notary Law that I've expressed in the Commission. The Notary Act has made changes to the process in the electronic environment. Of course, notarys may want to do so in accordance with current technological developments, but there are some issues there that concern the safety of all of us and the safety of the law. I want to talk about them. The electronic signature can now be sent to other individuals and institutions related to electronic documents. Now, we've discussed this a lot in the Commission. With a change in the MIT Law, the MIT can now obtain whatever document it wants from any institution. If he does not give this, the notarys say: "Our legal arrangement is not available, we may not give it." No, in the MIT Act, which was finally issued, saying that there is an obstacle to their laws in any way, such as the secrets of our clients, such as the secret of our clients, or the safety of their clients, are presupposed to prison if they are not given. For him, notaries are able to send documents and information from this electronic environment. For that reason, a separate sentence must be placed here, and it must be judged that it will not be affected by the MIT Law. It is also said that documents prepared in a secure electronic environment will not be prepared in a physical, physical environment if there is no request. In today's conditions, we always know that anything that happens in a computer environment, in an electronic environment, in an Internet environment, can be hacked. Now, this is about the safety of all of us. I mean, physically, even if there's no demand, it has to be kept, just as there's a UYAP system in the courts, and if the files are kept, the notarys need to keep it, in any way, so that when there's an intervention in the truth, people's rights don't disappear. Again, there's something about the Notary Act, which says that the framework is the 6th article, which says that if the document is to be presented, if the document is to be presented...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0101par0205	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0099par0206	Mr. President, I don't care...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0102par0207	He can finish the sentence.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0101par0208	I have to be even.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0099par0209	That's what I'm going to talk about in the next round of negotiations. This bill, which is so precipitated and in no way based on legal security, is going to shoot you and us again tomorrow, like boomerang, and I want to say this from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0103par0213	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0104par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0103par0215	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0104par0216	Just now, Mr. Speaker, in a way that our last speaker has never, ever targeted, has spoken of our party as a crime. We want word according to Article 69, Murat Bey will speak.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0103par0217	Here you go. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0105par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe it was me, maybe we didn't make it clear, but let's keep it in the dark, keep it straight. I mean, one party is a matter of mentality, and we've carved into our memory the people in the government's clothes. We have no words about the republic's founding will, its founding heroes, but you can appreciate that in 1946, the first founders of the National Movement Party were tortured, tortured. We can't ignore this, but it's something people in government clothes have done, and I've said it over and over again that I don't take it for granted. Then, the one party mentality is not only on that date, but also on September 12, 1980. That's my main objection.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0106par0225	There is now.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0107par0226	The most important one is now, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0108par0227	Mr. Basesgioğlu, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0109par0228	Turkey has dealt with many things, but it has not yet faced September 12th, and 5,000 people have died with their hands up. That's the only party mentality. There's a one-party mentality in 2014, that's what I'm trying to tell you. Otherwise, I have no cause for the dead Inönun, and for the children of Ataturk, all the heroes of this land, and the founders of this land; we think no different. But please, understand this review well, the universal values that we stand for as Turkish nationalists are: we believe in democracy, feed our nationalism; we believe in human rights and law, we are not advocates of dry nationalism. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0108par0231	Thank you. Members of parliament, Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ will speak now. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0110par0239	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Today, we negotiated a very important law proposal. I hope the offer is a blessing. In my speech, I'm going to evaluate criticism and highlight certain issues, to clarify them. For one thing, this proposal is a proposal in accordance with every clause of the Constitution, which is not subject to any objection to the Constitution. Of course, through interpretation, there may be some discrepancy claims through evaluation, but in essence, there is nothing contrary to the Constitution. The first part of the proposal makes important arrangements for notaries. While solving some of the problems that notarys face, the legal infrastructure is provided for notary operations to be done in electronics using a secure electronic signature. One of the most important changes in this proposal is the regulations and the reflections of these regulations that envision the increase in the number of agencies and members in the high judiciary. We all know the intensity of the workload in high judgment. A change was made in 2011 in order to remove the intensity of this workload, but it is evident that, given the situation so far, this change did not provide the expected reduction in the workload. The number of files in the criminal departments, 364.500 in 2010, appears to be 355,134 in 2013, and 389,469 as of 31/10/2014; of course, those who are troubled, including those who are involved. When you look at the legal offices, you see that the number of files of 171,814 in 2010 is 219,386 as of 31/10/2014. Of course, the numbers here don't cover the files found in the Supreme Court Attorney's office. And when we look at it, as of November 1, 2014, the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office has a number of cases of 353,000 who have been in trouble. There's no question that there's a lot of work to be done. The lack of a long-term ruling of cases in the high judiciary undermines our people's confidence in the judiciary, and it also causes them to gain their dues later. Taking measures to reduce work density is one of the important duties of our Parliament. Turkey is also a country that has made international commitments to the right to a fair trial. In this framework, it is necessary to make such a change in order to ensure that both a fair trial and a court of law will be settled in time, in order to prevent delayed justice. This change does not have a secret agenda, it is an arrangement to reduce the workload in the Supreme Court, to melt the density of the file there. I'd like to underline that in particular. This arrangement has been made in 2011, and it has been addressed to the Constitutional Court. As a result of his trial, the Constitutional Court has rejected the allegations, not only has the increase of the agency and the number of members, but its appreciation for the adoption of the presidential body in line with its rise has not been considered contrary to the rule of legal state and the principle of judicial independence. I won't read them all, but I'd just like to read one thing from this decision: the First Presidential Council, which is one of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Court's ruling bodies, has been provided to reflect the will of the members of the Supreme General Assembly of the Supreme Court and will be elected. According to this, there is no harm in reflecting the will of the First Presidential Council, one of the ruling bodies of the Supreme General Assembly of the Supreme Court, even if they are to be elected new. The rule remains that the re-membership of members of the former Supreme Court's First Presidential Council has not been prevented. On the other hand, it is clear that members of the Supreme Court's First Presidential Council, which will be resolving, will decide without any influence under the guarantee of judicial independence and judgment. Therefore, the rule of litigation does not have anything to do with the rule of law and the principle of judicial independence. The arrangement that we are currently making is not in conflict with the rule of legal state and judicial independence, as expressed in this decision by the Constitutional Court. The appointment of Supreme Court examiners is certainly not an intervention in the Supreme Court's internal affairs, judicial independence. Today, members of the Supreme Court, members of the State, are elected by HSYK. If we look at this logic, we have to say that choosing a member of the Court and the State is contrary to the independence of the judiciary, against the understanding of the legal state. The president and members of the regional administrative courts, judges and prosecutors serving in the first-degree courts, are all appointed by HSYK. If we look at it in this logic, it means that HSYK is in violation of the state of law, the appointment of prosecutors, the appointment of presidents, the electing members of the Supreme Court, all of which are in violation of judicial independence. This is unacceptable. Because the HSYK is a constitutional, administrative establishment founded on the basis of judicial independence and the assurance of sovereignty, and we all agree that HSYK is the insurance of judicial independence and neutrality. Therefore, it is not an intervention in the internal functioning of the Supreme Court, as the HSYK chooses its Supreme Court members, as well as it chooses its members of the Court, as it certainly does not intervene in the independence of the judiciary. Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Court made a statement yesterday. But it's not acceptable to think otherwise when you're choosing the Supreme Court's president, when you're choosing the president, when you're choosing the members, when you think you've decided that you've decided that you're loyal to the state of law and the independence of the judiciary. I'd like to express that here in particular. There is a similar arrangement in the State Department, which is currently appointed by prosecutors of the State's Office, HSYK. The same way a Supreme Court member is elected in the next period, the HSYK will use that authority as HSYK is authorized to do all of this, just as first-degree courts and prosecutors are appointed. None of this is contrary to the Constitution, the independence of the judiciary, the principle of the legal state, I would like to express it in particular. In addition, the amendment of members appointed by the President of the Court to prevent non-law school graduates from taking part in the prosecution agencies is allowed to take part in case offices. This is not a violation of judicial independence, nor is it against the legal state, because the Constitution allows the President to appoint a quarter of the number of members of the State Council, and they do not seek the requirement for a law school degree, they seek other conditions. But we have hundreds of judges and prosecutors who don't graduate from law school. They're being trained before entering a profession, and then they're on duty. If we don't predict that a map engineer or a zoning expert who's not a law-school graduate appointed by our president in the State Department will serve in the relevant apartment, or if we mistake it, then we need to look at the same way in government courts, in tax courts, in law-school graduates, which is an extremely wrong situation. He'll serve there, he'll serve there. There are two such members in the district, all other members are law school graduates, appointed by the President. I'd like to underline that in particular. Of course, another issue is a matter of changes to the Law on Punishment. It's been discussed a lot. I care about discussing it, and I see it right. First, it's a matter of reasonable doubt. In February of this year's February, strong doubt was changed to strong doubt based on concrete evidence in Article 116 of the Penal Code. When we made this change, our basic idea was that the search could not be easily decided, and if there was only a strong doubt, and there were some concrete signs, evidence, and so on, we wished that it would be decided. However, when we looked at the implementation of the law since the day it took effect, the enforcers began to perceive and apply it as evidence, such as evidence of crime and evidence, or rather evidence of the perpetrator. When a suspicious evidence suddenly became perceived and applied as evidence to prove the crime, as evidence of the crime, the result of this search failed to come to light. In many places -- now it's going to take a lot of time to count -- unfortunately, the search couldn't be made. In some places, the prosecutors did not give it to the judge, but the judges did not give it to him, and we experienced many negativeities. Thus, this arrangement is directed to eliminate the consequences of these negativeities and the resulting bad practice. The question of reasonable doubt is the same in the continent of Europe, where we see simple doubt, reasonable doubt. In Germany, there is a guess and a simple doubt supported by signs, there is a simple doubt in Austria, there is a simple doubt in England when there is a reasonable reason, there is a simple doubt in Italy, so we see that there are simple doubts in many countries. A reasonable doubt is a more concentrated doubt than that simple doubt. Another matter of impounding. We're doing additions to catalog crime in the seizure clause of the Penal Code. This was reflected as if the property and property of all those who oppose him will be seized, and whoever the government speaks against it will end his entire business life. Such an introduction, it's unfair. I mean, all my friends who made this presentation know it's not happening. Because, in the seizure clause, at CMK 128, we brought strong doubt based on concrete evidence as a guarantee. Two: Before the seizure decision, we also imposed the requirement for a report on the value obtained from the BDDK, SPK, MASAK, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation. Three: We also made the rule that the seizure decision should be carried out as a committee by the criminal court, and we brought the decision to be unanimous, and our Parliament has agreed. Now, which of these assurances is disappearing? None of them are disappearing. None of these assurances will be removed in regard to freedom and security, and in regard to the property of a person, and in regard to the rights of a person, and in regard to what they will receive. If there is a report, if there is strong doubt based on concrete evidence, if the severe criminal court is deciding as a committee, then the application can be made. So what we're doing here is we're taking some of the crimes we know to be crimes against constitutional order, crimes against coup attempt. Otherwise, if there's an assessment of the assets of the opponents as to how to confiscate this, then how does a coup crime occur, it needs to be read well.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0111par0259	How do you call corruption operations a coup, Mr. Secretary? You call it a coup.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0110par0260	They have nothing to do with freedom of thought, the way people oppose, the way they do, this arrangement. I'd like to express that in particular. On the other hand, it's a very important issue for the defense to examine the file and take samples from the file. We've arranged for the defendant to be sampled from the file without any restrictions. That's when we defended him. I myself defended that this was a very advanced arrangement in both the Commission and the General Assembly. However, in investigations into terrorism crimes, organisation investigations, drug-related investigations and other investigations following the application of the substance, especially those who have a profession to commit the crime are keeping watch in prosecutors' offices. It's almost impossible for an investigation to walk healthy, collect evidence, access to the perpetrator. He's taking whatever's in the file. The D.A.'s taking whatever he's writing, which means he sees which way the investigation is headed. Thus, the evidence has a great opportunity to black out, and the evidence is blacked out, disappearing, research is inconclusive. And so we face a danger, especially in the case of investigations into organised crime, organised crime. So, at this point, we went back to the arrangement that envisions restrictions on certain documents by the judge's decision, if the purpose of the investigation is to be compromised. However, a catalog was made here by the Commission, considering the criticism of valuable members of the Commission and members of the opposition party. This catalog has been restricted. I hope that limitation is sufficient to meet the goal of the lawmaker. Look, I'd like to give you a few numbers so I can explain this better: there are 6,1559 investigations, including files on the circuit in 2011, and the 1,050 investigations have been decided to secrecy. In 2012, there were 6 million 285, 102 investigations, 1,064 investigations with a confidentiality order. There are 6 million 679, 973 investigations in 2013, and 1.306 of them have been declared confidential. Of course, when you look at these numbers, there's only a certain number of investigations from millions of investigations where there's a confidentiality order. Now, that narrows it down even further, and the judge will decide. I believe it's a necessity. There's been a lot of criticism here, and, of course, as a person who advocates this change, he's taken part in these criticisms, but we have to bring it in, we have to bring it in, and you know that very well. This is a very important arrangement in the health of our investigations. The goal here is certainly not to limit the right to defend, but to collect the evidence correctly, to reach the perpetrators, and to conduct an active and healthy investigation to ensure that whoever deserves the punishment. Of course, there are arrangements here for the rights of our judges and prosecutors. Our judges and prosecutors have been exhausted by these arrangements, and they've been worn out by other provisions that bring some possibilities, but I want it to be known that our judges and prosecutors deserve more. We can only make so much improvement in our budget opportunities, and when our resources increase, we will be able to do so more.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0112par0264	What took you so long? Why not last year, but this year? Why now, why?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0110par0265	I thank each and every one of you for your contribution, and wish you well.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0113par0267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0114par0268	Why don't you do the others?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0113par0269	Congressmans, you may ask your questions in a moment, please... Now, Isparta MP Recep will speak for himself in private. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0115par0273	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a personal pledge on the Law Proposal of 655 rows. A total of 12 laws have been changed by this proposal of the law and our agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0116par0276	Enough, enough!
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0117par0277	Mr. Hodja, please...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0118par0278	Mr. President, half a minute goes by, time passes, the law must be passed!
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0279	The main purpose of this law is to improve the rights of judges and prosecutors to address the issues of the judiciary, to update some of the provisions of the Notary Law, to address the problems that arise in the application of punishment.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0117par0280	And this time, Mr. Hodja, please... Two teachers, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0282	...to make changes in the provisions related to the procedure with some protection measures, to bring forgiveness for some disciplinary action on judges and prosecutors, to make changes by Turkey's Justice Academy in order to ensure more effective and efficient execution of educational activities, to enable the Justice Department to establish an international organization due to developing and growing relations, to enable the Supreme Court and the State to establish new agencies. One of the most important assets in the legal state is to ensure the fair and effective functioning of the judicial system. The most important aspect of the active operation is the conclusion of trials in a reasonable time. The judiciary's ability to regulate conflicted interests with the quality of arbitration to ensure social peace depends on the problem and the rapid resolution of conflicts. In our country's legal and criminal trials, the scope and limits of the workload can be better understood, given that about 6 million cases are presented in front of the first-degree court each year. The long wait of trials before high courts has caused complaints, and the European Convention on Human Rights has made it necessary for our country, which has committed to a fair trial as a side, to make the search for a solution permanent. Unfortunately, the perception that because of such heavy workloads, files were concluded in high courts without enough scrutiny is also present in different social areas. If we take a brief look at the materials and regulations that contain the contents of the judicial package, which can be explained in this way in this way, the notary law contains 6 articles, allowing the notary to perform some of its operations electronically. The changes made in the Court of Prosecutors' Law have been established in 2 apartments, allowing the State to be elected a new member. On the other hand, the State's Prime Minister and Ministers' Council also has competent duties, such as to state its opinion on the bill and its concessions to public services and its contracts, to review the regulations and bills. In consultation duties, the State Department is qualified for a study, consultation and decision-making body that helps the executive body. In 1868, a new administrative agency is established by strengthening this function, which was founded as a Sûra-yi State and is also a consultant for an important function of the executive body. And due to the workload in the Supreme Court... Our Minister has just presented his views on increasing the number of apartments related to the Supreme Court. I'd like to share the Supreme Court's statement with you here yesterday. The Supreme Court and some of our opposition speakers have mentioned that this proposal has been brought to some difficulties in the process of law enforcement under conditions that are inadmissible to the legal process. Yesterday, the Supreme Court's statement states that this proposal -- that is, on the agenda, before and during this present proposal -- was not asked about our institutional needs and demands -- has not been entered into into the search for a consultation. He presented it in writing and made a statement to the press verbally. Now, I have 30/10/2014, a total of 34 judges...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0120par0290	Three days ago, Mr. Recep, three days.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0291	Not three days ago. October 30, 2014, a total of 59 pages... 1. From the head of the agency, all the heads of law offices and criminal departments, all 34 heads of departments -- this criminal trial -- have a positive, negative opinion on the proposal we have now, the Supreme Court's opinion. In the end, the merger of the Supreme Court's views is four pages, totalling 63 pages of view here. I'm not going to share these views with you one by one. Six of these 34 apartment heads have said that we have no opinion on the proposal alone. Some have expressed their opinion only about salary hikes, about the rights arrangement, and have had no opinion on other law clauses in the proposal, other laws that concern them. Now, either the Supreme Court doesn't know about this...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0121par0292	Look how it didn't work out, they're signed up for the First President.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0293	And all the heads of the department sent him as the First President, through whom he came to the Parliamentary Justice Commission, which was distributed to all members of the Justice Commission, power, opposition. Now, while we're standing here, we've never been consulted, we've never been consulted as the Supreme Court. And these law studies have been on our agenda for two months. From the beginning of October to today, we need it in the Justice Commission, the lower commission and the General Assembly agenda.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0122par0295	Mr. Recep, prepare a motion immediately, relieve him of duty.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0296	You're, you're, you're, you're, you're... Making a statement to the General Assembly's agenda on the eve of its arrival also shows how right it is that we are to remove the ceremonies from the openings of this court year.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0123par0297	So you've moved it, Recep, you didn't pick it up?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0124par0298	We didn't. It says Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0299	Now, in this arrangement, only one of the 34 heads of apartments saw a problem with opening statements in the court year, criticised, criticized, and the other 33 department heads gave a positive opinion on the openings of the judicial year, and they never criticised, nor did they approve of reforming. They gave a positive opinion.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0124par0300	We didn't. He says, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0301	Now, you've read these, haven't you? You know there's nothing on the inside that's against what I said.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0125par0303	I'm finally overwhelmed.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0304	The Supreme Court has more than 1,300 degrees of study judges. Now, we're moving on to a new procedure in the appointment of these student judges, and we're moving on to a new method. The HSYK disagrees with its ability to choose current Supreme Court members, where they have the capacity to choose students who will serve in the lower post. If HSYK members can choose members of the Supreme Court, of course, they can identify and best identify the study judges who will serve there.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0126par0305	Let him see, he's the one we want.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0119par0306	This law study brought about a improvement in the rights of self as it came to our agenda. And about $1,155 worth of improvement, to the judges and prosecutors, first-degree courts, to the Supreme Court, to the Supreme Court, to all of them, of course, to the other courthouse employees, to the clerks, to the pensioners, I hope, in the future, we'll have the opportunity to bring them this good news. One of the key elements of this law study is a disciplinary pardon. In connection with disciplinary amnesty, all consequences for the judicial justice and administrative judiciary and the state's prosecutors are expected to be pardoned for the acts of disciplinary action against judges and prosecutors from February 14, 2005 to September 1st 2013. The criticism here was, why are you specifying the date range? It is the Constitutional Court's decision to specify the date range. In all the amnesty laws, there's a period of date in the amnesty laws because when the date period is not specified, there may also be, like, one, again, an incentive to crime, as well as a date between the date of which the proposal was sent here and the date of its execution. Therefore, for these reasons, a date range is specified. Of course, one of the other things that is highly controversial is solid evidence, or suspicious evidence based on concrete evidence, or reasonable doubt. Now, a year ago, yes, we changed it in this House again in February. We had given up reasonable doubt and moved on to doubt based on concrete evidence, but from then on, the problem was not in the adoption of the laws, but also in the practice. Why would the application use this material that we've given you in a bad way to justify a search warrant after looking for evidence that would provide evidence that would not be in the investigations, that would not be concrete evidence? It's simple, if there's any doubt in the search order that anyone can understand, that anyone can admit that when the courts should have made a search warrant, they've been looking for almost a conviction level of evidence, and in some cases, unfortunately, in some cases, search decisions have not been issued, investigations have been compromised, criminal trials haven't been done in a good way. Therefore, the arrangement that was brought in, and many more arrangements that we all wanted and desired, I am pleased with this judgment. I say, "I am pleased with it." I say, "We have no other purpose, no purpose, no cause, and I salute all of you."
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0127par0311	Thank you, Mr. Special. Now we're going to do 20 minutes of QA. We'll take ten minutes of these 20 minutes to answer the question, and in the next ten minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions. There are lawmakers entering the system, starting from the beginning. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0128par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that while implementing your dissolution project, the solution process, the baby killer who is serving his sentence in Imralı will have a secretariat? If that's true, then what laws will you enforce the establishment of a secretariat for a terrorist criminal? The law proposal we're discussing will solve what problems of the judiciary? Again, if you don't recognize the judgment as the administration when Ataturk is building a white palace for the Forest Farm, how will you ensure that the citizen abides by judgment? In a statement from the White Palace, the technical properties of the White Palace have been declared, where nuclear weapons, chemical weapons, etcetera, will not work, and so on, and so on. So is there a system that prevents the Grim Reaper from coming in here? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0129par0320	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0130par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, since the person you arrested with reasonable doubt will compromise the safety of the investigation within reasonable time, his lawyer will not be able to look at the file, and how do you call this trial justice? You made a statement about reasonable doubt, but we're not convinced. ▪ Who will determine the boundaries, scope, and content of the concept of reasonable doubt? How can Turkish citizens save themselves from being reasonable suspects based on no material evidence? What need is first caused by a return to a defiantly abandoned grip? You say that during the 12-year period of AKP's rule, the judiciary fell into the hands of parallel elements. Aren't you responsible for causing the trial to fall into the hands of the parallel? Prime Minister Erdogan said he was the prosecutor of the lawsuits against such a structure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...do you intend to file charges against Erdogan, the prosecutor of the parallel judiciary?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0131par0325	Teacher, you've asked seven questions in one minute. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0132par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, did the salary hikes you announced to the judges and prosecutors before the HSYK elections bring you to your goal? Do you think similar improvements should be done to other court-martialed staff? Second: What is the annual number of files per member of the Supreme Court, and what are the average numbers in EU countries? Where is the need to increase the number of apartments in the Supreme Court? Is it true that the members of these new apartments have been identified, and can you make a statement about it? And lastly, does your Ministry have any work on giving green passports to lawyers registered to the bar? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0133par0332	Teacher, you've asked seven questions, you're tied.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0132par0333	We can't compete with my teacher.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0133par0334	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0134par0335	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I wonder if a 516-member, 48-circle Supreme Court exists in another country in the world. Now, these HSYK elections have been made. In these HSYK elections -- as far as we can follow -- an election campaign was conducted through ethnic identity, religion, community, ideology. Do you have any faith that the HSYK, created like this, can perform a study of the rule of law as Minister of Justice? For 12 years, you have served as a government in Turkey, and we are currently experiencing a process in which you have the least confidence in justice, and you have considered many negative decisions as parallel structures or a number of structures in the judiciary. Okay, so I'm asking, for 12 years, this Justice Department has been run by the minister of another country?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0135par0339	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0136par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's a Hinduism in this 7th article. Now, in the 7th article, it allows judges who served five years in the administrative judiciary to finish their law schools. It's probably not about learning law, it's not about being a lawyer or anything. Look, according to the Notary Act, you have to finish law school in order to become a notary. It's probably the judges in high judgment... Look, there are 1,700 notaries in Turkey, 600 of whom carry green passports. What does that mean? In recent years, judges in high judgment have notarized notaryism by the end of their term, ageing like wine. There's probably a demand for you from the administrative judiciary and the State Department, I know very well, I've thought a lot about it, they don't do it to be lawyers, you have bureaucrats in the back; they probably demanded a bribe to get into notaryism, they said: "We want to get into notaryism, what do we do?" We didn't finish law school, let's finish, let's do our job, and let our notary document grow old like wine.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0135par0344	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0137par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, according to the existing Court of State and the Supreme Court Act, a 20-year term is required for the judge and prosecutor's profession to be elected as a member of the Court and the Supreme Court. However, this twenty-year period is reduced to seventeen years by the offer we discussed tonight. Now I want to ask you: why 17 years and not twenty? Why 17 years instead of 18? During these HSYK elections, you made a lot of commitments, including a raise in salary against judges. I wonder if there are judges and prosecutors you've committed to being a Supreme Court member who's done 17 years, but hasn't done 20 years? Is this law in general personal terms?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0135par0348	Thank you. Mr. Akagun Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0138par0350	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been demands from the Sivas Bar, the Afyonkarahisar Bar Association and the Butler Bar, and I believe that all the barrooms have made the same demands. They ask all of our attorneys: Turkey has signed the Rules of Havana, the Basic Principles to the Role of Lawyers. According to this signed agreement, the 16th article titled "Secrecy of Attorneyship" states that the authorities can carry out all occupational activities without any pressure, obstruction, harassment or corruption, and travel freely abroad and meet their clients. Now, if Turkey has signed the Havana Convention, shouldn't the right to travel abroad and abroad be recognised to lawyers? Why aren't green passports granted to lawyers, Mr. Secretary? This needs to be resolved as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0139par0353	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0140par0355	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you said the Supreme Court would relieve the workload of this bill. When making these changes, did the Supreme Court have any demands? Is it based on such a request? If not, what do you say to the Supreme Court's statement that these changes can do serious harm to judicial culture, judicial independence and the nature of appeals? As a newly elected high judge, why would Supreme Court President Ali Alkan face you as Minister if there were no serious problems? And, Mr. Secretary, on June 28, 2014, you terminated the position of the First Presidential Board under the Supreme Court's legal election authority without any grounds. Under this law, just four months ago, a new election was made, and that's how you end the job of the new board, which was chosen to prioritize experience and seniority.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0141par0360	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0140par0361	I want to know how this works.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0141par0362	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0140par0363	I mean, when, for how long...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0141par0364	Mr. Can...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0142par0365	There's no strong doubt based on concrete evidence, even though the search conditions are in place...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0140par0366	I mean, the way this board is formed...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0141par0367	Mr. Acar, please...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0142par0368	Mr. President, if you could reboot my time...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0141par0369	Here, start again.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0142par0370	Although the search conditions have been established, there is no strong doubt based on concrete evidence. Are there any cases where there are no search warrants? Has there been any damage to the power and the impossible? According to the current text, does CMK 1 - The investigation is confidential - not contradicting CMK 153? Also, does one's disclosure, right not to be tainted, violate the principle of innocence? What is the situation in Germany in comparison law? Is the procedure different between the detection of listening and the recording of listening? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0143par0373	Mr. Pitcher, 30 seconds...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0144par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're giving judges and prosecutors who have not graduated from law school a free pass to law school without a test. I'm curious, do you think your government will grant non-medical members who serve at the High Health Organization and have the right to enter medical school without a test?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0143par0376	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0145par0378	Mr. President, I'll answer as much as I can in my time. Mr. Erdogan had questions about the solution process. As you know, there are laws about who will be found in prisons. There are only prisoners and prisoners in prisons. Other than that, no one can be found. So the secretariat debates with the Imran became a process of perception to undermine our government in public. It's as if there's going to be an outside chief of staff, there's going to be a secretary, there's going to be a pattern. It's incredibly wrong, there's no such thing. Look, I'll tell you one thing: it doesn't exist politically.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0146par0381	Is Bulent Arinc lying?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0147par0382	Mr. Arinc says it's appropriate.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0148par0383	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0384	Two: Legally, that is not possible. There can only be prisoners and prisoners in prison. And in Imran, there are also prisoners who are present with Ocalan. These prisoners are reduced, multiplying, leaving, others may come. These are routine practices in every prison. Just as all prisons have routine practices, the same practices are performed in the Imralı, and there is no privilege involved.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0147par0385	So Bulent Arinc isn't telling the truth, then?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0386	There are some convicts out there right now. These convicts can change, others can go, increase, diminish, and leave. We can't force people to stay anywhere. On another subject: Ataturk asked about the Forest Farm. About the Ataturk Forest Farm, Ankara 11. The Supreme Court has decided to halt an execution of the presidential service building there, but then the State Department is not in my memory at the moment, but- 13. His office decided that the decision to stop this execution was illegal, and lifted the decision to stop the execution. At the moment, there is no judicial decision to prevent the use or construction of the presidential palace. I made that statement in the Commission, and I made a judgment call there. I'd like to rephrase that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0150par0388	There's a court order that shows the area of the 1st degree of the status area in the 3rd degree.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0389	Of course, Mr. Janiciri had a question about reasonable doubt. In the matter of reasonable doubt, I mentioned it in my speech on the whole proposal. A reasonable doubt is not the first concept in our law, it was originally an institution in Turkey until February 2014. It was then translated into strong doubt based on concrete evidence, which, of course, led to perception and implementation so that the search decision would not be made easier, but that the practice would never be made. And so we felt the need to review it once again because when there was a need for concrete evidence on many subjects, this concrete evidence was supposed to be evidence of doubt, it was perceived as evidence of the perpetrator, it was applied, and there were many problems. The Home Office has sent us a lot of articles about the problems that have arisen in practice. Now when we look at it, we see a lot of evidence missing, a lot of perpetrators not being caught. Maybe he was gonna get caught, maybe he was gonna get evidence. In this regard, it is necessary to return to reasonable doubt in both the capture of the perpetrators and the retrieval of the evidence. There's absolutely no other thought under it. Not to view our citizens as reasonable suspects, but to disturb the peace, security of our citizens; to address the perpetrators who attempt their lives, their property, their integrity; to capture and obtain the necessary evidence of the suspects. There's no way to look for anything else under here. Second: arrest with reasonable doubt is not in our law. When reasonable doubt came up in the proposal, something came up, and there was a decision in the press about the court. For one thing, let's be very clear: The 100th article of the CMC is very clear. For arrest warrants to be made, suspicion is not reasonable doubt, but strong doubt based on concrete evidence. So once, with reasonable doubt, if someone's making a decision, then it's against the law, he's breaking the law. He can't, and it's impossible to give. Mr. Light said, "Will the increase in justice and prosecutors be reflected in other court staff?" It doesn't reflect at the moment because that's the only way we can do it within the scope of budgets. But it doesn't reflect. And indeed, they deserve a better reward.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0151par0392	Let's put it in motion, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0393	If we could give them more, we'd be happy to. But right now, we're only giving it to judges and prosecutors under budgets.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0151par0394	Make it symbolic, Mr. Secretary. Now let's make a motion here.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0395	Why was it needed to increase the number of apartments and members in the Supreme Court and the Court, and what are the numbers on the workload? I explained it in my speech, but I'd like to say once again that right now, there are 355,134 files and 394,617 files as of 2013, as of 30/9/2014. There are 215,000 files in the Supreme Court's legal offices. There's a total of 609,000 files. Also, there are 354,000 files in the Supreme Court's Attorney General's office. So there's a huge file load. There are 2,880 files dropped to 1 member in the criminal departments. In law offices, an average of 1,000 files are reduced to 1 member.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0152par0396	Has it just happened, Mr. Secretary? Wasn't there one before?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0149par0397	A lot of our friends asked about the green passport. And as a lawyer, as a member of law enforcement, I've made it my heart's desire that all of our fellow lawyers be given green passports. When my friends voiced it during the commission talks, I discussed it with our Foreign Ministry and other relevant ministries, and an assessment was made from there: Now, European member states and other countries want it reduced due to the number of green passports in Turkey, and some countries put a visa on green passports; for example, Britain currently put a visa on a green passport. There is a great deal of pressure in other countries. Compared to the number in Turkey and the number in Western countries, we have a large number of citizens with green passports. So when we took a step at this point, it was said that maybe there's a problem with the current green passports. Since we saw such a risk, we didn't take a step forward. But talks on visa exemption, you know, continue. Under the agreements with members of the European Union, if the outcome is concluded, there will be no problem at this point in the next two years, if the European Union is in effect. But at this point, we can't limit it, because on the other hand, we have many, many, many other, important citizens who practice professions like lawyers. We're going to have to give them this, and as this coverage increases, the current application area of the green passport will be even narrower. That's why we can't do that at this point, but it'll still be in our review. I'm gonna follow up on this, okay? I'll follow this one in particular. I would also like to express in particular that our work on the legal bill of law is being carried out here. Of course, the arrangement that allows law-school graduates to enter law school without exams, basically gives them the opportunity to notarize, as you say, if he finishes law, he'll get the opportunity to practice law, but it's not the issue that's come up for notarizing. Only a judge for five years who served in the administrative court has already been a judge. He's doing a job that law school graduates are aiming for. Once he has the opportunity to study law school, he'll have an education, if he chooses, if he doesn't, he won't do it anyway. We bring opportunity, we bring opportunity. This can actually be viewed as a service education, or as an opportunity for self-improvement. Right now, your quotas are...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0401	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0154par0402	Mr. Secretary, you're laughing too, and you don't believe it.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0403	Mr. Flagtutan, thank you, too. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0155par0405	Mr. President, just a second... I'll make a brief statement based on the statement of the Minister.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0406	I don't hear it, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0155par0409	I'm going to make a brief statement, but he gave me a misinformation. There is no court order for the place which is described as this fugitive palace. As Minister of Justice, he needs to know that three months ago, there was a decision made by the Ankara District Administration's Court on the turning of the 1st-degree status area into a three-degree status area, and right now it is against the law to build an illegal palace; I think Mr. Minister should know that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0156par0410	Congressman, your information is wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0411	Okay, thank you. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I hereby submit to your votes that all those in favor...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0157par0416	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0417	I said, "All in favor."
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0157par0418	You didn't look here.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0419	Wait a minute... guys, wait a minute... [[Noises]] Guys, lawmakers, I don't know why you're yelling. Have I made a decision? All of a sudden, you stand up like this, and all hell breaks loose. We'll do it... I may not have seen it, but I have two clerks with me, officers in the back. They said he stood up. They said you stood up before I started; you had a roll call. 20 MPs standing up? Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Basesgioğlu, Mr. Bal, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Şeksek, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Illum, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Adan, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Özturk... I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] And I'd also like to ask my fellow members of the group, please stand up when you ask for a sufficient number of decisions or roll call...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0158par0428	I was standing, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit03spe0153par0429	So I'm not telling you, I'm telling you in general. And if you say it out loud, we won't hurt each other in that way. [[Investigation continued]] There's enough for a meeting. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0153par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 18th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 655. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part includes 1 to 26. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the first chapter. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0159par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of Justices and Prosecutors Act 655, and on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the Proposal for Amendments to certain Laws under the Law and Law. I salute the General Assembly. Article 16 of the Human and Citizen Rights Declaration of 1789 states that the separation of forces is a necessary factor for the constitutional state. Clearly, political structures that do not apply the principle of separation of forces cannot have a constitution. The principle of separation of forces is one of the fundamental elements that make a country's political system democratic. Because only an independent judiciary can live up to the rule of law. So the principle of separation is, in a sense, a precondition for the rule of law, which makes it possible for the judiciary to be separate from the law and the administration. Dear lawmakers, when this law proposal is examined in this framework, our basic questions are: One: is this proposal prepared to strengthen the rule of law? Two: Is this proposal a stronger structure than the principle of separation of forces? Three: Is this proposal prepared to strengthen the principle of independence of the judiciary? When we examine the Law proposal, it is impossible to say yes. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the first part of the law proposal that we're talking about includes a change in the Notary Act to Articles 1 through 7; and the opinion of the Association of Notarys has been brought to the agenda. The law, referred to by the Notary Act, allows some of the transactions to be done electronically and electronically. The regulation, which is intended to be brought under Article 7 of the Law proposal, is an attempt to enact a law under the roof of Turkey's Grand National Assembly of the Law, incompatible with the principles of the equality of opportunity, incompatible with the principle of equality of opportunity. Dear lawmakers are placed in law schools without examinations by the higher education board in addition to Article 4/11/1981, which is estimated to be added to Article 45/47's article (1), as well as by judges and prosecutors who served five years in the administrative judiciary and those who have not graduated from law school by the President and those who have not graduated from law school by the President. While the conditions for all Turkish citizens to enter law schools have been subject to certain tests, it is not possible for members appointed by the President to be granted privileges that violate the principles of law for members of an institution representing the rule of law, first of all due to the ethics of the law, ethical obligations that the lawyer must observe, and the inequality of opportunity among citizens. Dear lawmakers, the regulations between 9 and 19th articles of the proposal of the law are briefly aimed at deepening the hegemonia established by the administration on the judiciary. Under the provisions made in these articles, the powers of the Council of Presidents, Vice Presidents, Attorney Generals, and all office heads are ranked in the ranks of the 19-member Board of Presidents, but the three-uniciplinary presidents and the three-member presidential council, a narrow body, are expected to be equipped with extraordinary powers. In accordance with the legal regulations presented with the proposal, these powers are stated by the Council of Ministers as to the duties of the prosecutors. They're replaced in the same way. Members are divided into apartments by the presidential board's decision and, according to the services, their apartments can be replaced in the same way. Lacks in apartments are completed by recruitment from other apartments. These members are predetermined by the presidential board's decision. The Governing Body consists of heads of executive agencies and a member of the Presidential Board who will be elected from every administrative agency at the beginning of each calendar year and a president or member of each prosecution office. The presidential board will vote within 30 days in case the board is ejaculated from their elected membership. It is necessary to determine the positions of the members, the working conditions and needs of the agencies, to change the apartments of the head of the agency and members. To reveal the apartments, boards, and tasks for the prosecutors to work in, and to move them when necessary. To reveal or do government work, which is not specified as the authority. In ten days' time since the decision on the business department was published in the Official Gazette, the Council of Ministers shall re-establish the offices where the office heads, members and examiners will serve, considering the working situation and needs of the apartments. Dear lawmakers, as it turns out, the administration, the administration, the cases, the determination of the work department, the commission of members, the replacement of examination judges, and so on, the duties are given to the presidential council. Thus, if the proposal is legalized, it is possible to place new members of the State in critical circles, thus opening the door to the high-judgment intervention of the administration, and to end up in accordance with the will of certain, important cases. Dear lawmakers, these amendments to the proposal of the law also contradict the Venice Criteria. A key point the Council of Venice has pointed out is that the most sensitive issues for the state of law, such as the appointment and investigation of judicial members, are carried out as objectively as possible. In addition to law and execution, the judge who performs an entirely different task must be kept away from all oppression and influence. However, this state of the presidential council, which has been created in accordance with the methods of running the State, which disregards the principles of judicial independence and division of forces, is also a sign that international law is not being taken seriously. Dear lawmakers, high judicial boards perform a positive function for the independence of the judiciary in many countries in which they are operating. However, it depends on the existence of some constitutional institutions and guarantees that the high judicial boards perform this function as required. Many factors affect the functioning of such boards from the selection of board members, from the executive and financial independence of the board to the quality of decisions and auditing. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems of the political field in Turkey is that the law and the judiciary are a tool of state and power rather than a product of the areas of reconciliation between social parties. Taking the law and the judiciary into the ruling monopoly has prevented difficult relations from moving to a legal equality, and more than that, it has allowed the judiciary to remain a fundamental instrument of the strong. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers can be abused if power is not limited. When those who have power use their power against those who do not have power, it becomes a means of oppression, exclusion, persecution, and even destruction of those who do not have power. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTI government does not want to leave a path except to give consent to the unfair practices it has set up for those who oppose it. However, the most important place to preserve the equality of power and others besides him is the judiciary. However, law in Turkey has been the name of an action, a thriller every day, and has been transformed by the AK PARTI rule into an area of deepening law distortion. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0160par0030	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turgut Dibek of the 40s will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0161par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. I've taken a pledge on the first part of the proposal on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. First of all, I salute you, dear friends. Now, we've seen a number of statements by the Minister -- just as we've just been listening -- that there's actually a very big need for these materials, you know, the changes in the proposal, and it's not as if they've come in front of us a few months ago with monthly changes, but in the days to come, there's a very big need for these changes, and it's going to be useful, and so have I. Actually, we know what it is, dear friends. On the commission, I, our other friends, talked about it for hours. I've just got my speeches, I've got pages to talk to. You know what it is, you know what it is. Now, it's not a new event, so in recent years -- I've been here for two semesters, working with my friends on the Commission -- it's become a habit. Now, the changes don't come as a bill anymore. Look, the government brought in this security package as a bill. I don't know, you'll probably see him after New Year's, or it'll be discussed, but he came as a bill. Why? When he came in as a bill, he was examined a little bit, maybe in certain places, but he came up with this offer. And our friends who bid -- and they know very well -- they made the opposite of these proposals months ago. While we were listening to them that day, we were actually saying what we said today, and we're looking at principle. We also said the needs of the legal state, the needs of objective law, the needs of universal law, where we tried to explain the savings of Turkey from its past, that it should not be played so precisely with institutions. So, there's a coalition, there's a coalition in the HSYK structure, and according to that coalition, there are proposals coming in here; that coalition is breaking down, sir, a new coalition is forming, and proposals are coming in. Judge, the structure of the State is being turned upside down. We've explained that this shouldn't happen on the Commission, but it's mostly the power that has made it a habit, unfortunately. Now, while they're doing this, they say we need to change the rules of justice, we need to change some of the clauses. But dear friends, what's really dangerous is that the Minister knows this: while doing this, they put them into these proposals, just like they do here. What's worse is that there are some personal offers, or there are some personal arrangements. So, when we think about the December 17th, December 25th corruption process, there's been some sort of arrangement in the past that protects those involved in that process, protects those close to power, protects them, or frees them from the law, saves them from the judiciary. And now in this package, there are also personal arrangements inside this proposal, and unfortunately there are some items that are hidden outside the judicial framework again. I'd like to point out in general first. When we enter the substances, within the first section, of course, the first five or six points are notary-related. I mean, Mr. Secretary, you'll probably say, it's a need, it's a need, but other than that, dear friends, what's said here, what's the number of clauses of the proposal, I think, about the judge and prosecutors in the administrative court, that's what I've just said. I mean, we've talked about this in the Commission, and there's a special arrangement for judges, prosecutors, who have served in the State and administrative court and who have not graduated from law school. In fact, there is an unconstitutional arrangement coming up, a regulation that violates the rule of equality. That's where we asked him why he was here. In fact, what was bad was that all parties -- regardless of the Commission's will, we, ourselves, were the opposition -- rejected the motion, the ruling party lawmakers rejected the motion, and you rejected it, and you rejected it, but you came to see that -- after all the clauses in the 7th amendment were discussed, Mr. Secretary insisted that you, despite the Commission's will, would have to renegotiate the proposal, he was there, his deputy was there, he was there, the Deputy Minister's deputy was there, he requested it, and what's a pity is that most of us, the ruling party has refused to accept it, despite the motion, most of you have had to accept it. It is against the Constitution, which clearly violates the 10th Amendment. He told me about the judge and prosecutor close to 650, Mr. Secretary. What is it, dear friends? Now, do they have the right to judge and prosecution until they are 65 years old, Mr. Secretary? Yeah, they're doing it. What happens if they don't graduate law school? They're doing that mission. After 65 years of age, thousands of young students, okay, and maybe they don't have a reduction in their quota in the OSYM, they bring it as a defense, they add it, but when they're thrown into their career life, they'll close them down -- there's just a concern about notarization here -- hundreds of administrative judges will enter law school without a test, they won't have to go on, they'll teach some difference courses, and then they'll graduate and they'll be licensed to be a lawyer's license to sign up for any bar, and maybe they'll be notarized as a notarists. This arrangement is a special arrangement for certain segments, which must come out of this package when the ingredients come in, dear friends. In chapter one, there are articles related to the State Department, the same, similar items in the Supreme Court. Look, I've been following this State Department since the beginning, so I've been on the Justice Commission for years, and I've usually made a commitment here on the Court of Justice in budget talks, and so I've had a chance to follow up on the State's structure. Now, before the 2010 referendum, there were friends, 95 members -- a 150-year-old supreme court in the district, from the constitutional institution and from the Ottomans, a 150-year-old institution. I mean, we turned that institution upside down, you turned it upside down. 95 members today are 156 members; if you pass this change, the number of members will be 195. Nowhere in the world, an appeal to the administrative court would have such a number of prosecutions. But I just told you why you did it, why you wanted to do it. So the coalition's broken down, we've been hit. You're saying, there's a new coalition structure formed in HSYK, with that HSYK structure, we're doing this in the DA's office, sir, by diluteing the community team, by increasing the number, by neutralizing them, can we complete the process in our favor? And there, it's very painful, there are two offices called the Presidential Board, the President's Board; you've played with them like ping-pong balls, there and there. Look, I think they're supposed to be February 2011, the third package in Act 6110, the third package, I don't remember, but these powers, my dear friends, were on the Council of Presidents before... sorry, you gave them to the Presidents by law. I mean, because it's complicated. The presidential board consists of a board of seven people, a small board of presidents, the Chief of State and all members. You see, with the board of seven there, can we fix this structure? You've given all authority -- excuse me, President, and I've confused -- to the President's Board of Directors from the presidential board. Then you get up, and now you're bringing those powers back to the presidential board. I mean, even we can't get out of it, dear friends, that's what it's become. Now, he was elected to the Presidential Board in 2013, he has two years of mandates, they're going to go to a whole new arrangement, they're going to change all the apartments. So, they're going to change the members of the apartments, they're going to change the positions of the apartments, and that's where seven people are going to build it. I mean, that's what these substances contain. Mr. Secretary says we need it. He's talking about the files. Not at all. I mean, he's talking about these files, and I got them here because... and the clock is ticking, and it's ticking, so maybe I'll talk about the rest of the stuff. Now, you're making changes in the process. Mr. Secretary, there's an incident we call caution. The files are coming in front of the Supreme Court, changing the legislation without looking at the files, returning files without looking; sending back thousands, hundreds of thousands of files. Those files are coming back from the local court with a second verdict. I wonder how many of those numbers are like that, if there's any study of him... I mean, he's been to the Supreme Court, he's gone, he's come back. That's a lot of files. So, the problem isn't the number of files. The coalition is a new structure. After the HSYK structure, a new arrangement is being made in the State and the Supreme Court. I'll reassess these issues in the matter.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0162par0047	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Now, on behalf of the nationalist movement group, Mr. Faruk Bal will speak for you, MP. However, you have a five-minute speech on your behalf, and if you are not addressed on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0163par0050	No.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0162par0051	No. We'll give you 15 minutes, if you'd like, Mr. Honey. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0164par0055	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The bill we discussed came in three pieces. We have nothing to say to its first part, but it was about notarys and the economic opportunities for the people of the judge's profession to achieve the kind of life that they're capable of doing. There was nothing wrong here, but there was nothing wrong. However, the second and third waves -- these waves were seen with considerable intensity at the time of the AKP government -- disturbed the business. Let's start with notaryism. There are some arrangements that the Notary Union needs. In these regulations, we, the National Movement Party, had positive support for the notarization of the profession, and we're doing it the way it is. However, we suspected that notary data would violate the privacy of private life, the secrecy of commercial relations, the brands and certain secrets by going to third parties in electronics. We shared that suspicion. However, the Notary Association expressed that it could be blocked by some firewalls. We wish you wouldn't have a technical problem. In the first wave, the government has made a commitment to judges in the beginning of the HSYK elections in the shape of a carrot-sopa, that if the HSYK elections end positive, their wages will increase. If it doesn't end the way we want it to end, then we won't accept the outcome of the election. I'm putting this discussion aside. However, the majority of judges and prosecutors who are struggling with the economic problems of the judiciary are not just judges and prosecutors. And there are others who spend more and more time than they do, and who spend more, and who spend more, and who have fewer wealth than that. These are the scribes. To the Ottoman's song, and to our world of song, the scribe, whose length is long and his skirt is mud, is empty, my dear friends. The bailiffs are having serious trouble getting into general administration services and getting better economic opportunities there. Election staff, members of parliament, mayors, city council members, civil society's election of public institutional bodies, are in distress as well as members of the election staff who demonstrate the democratic structure of Turkey. Execution officers are no different from prisoners as long as they live. These people, who have psychological problems and are in economic difficulties, also have these economic demands. One: members of the judiciary who provide support for judicial compensation also want to benefit from it. That's the right thing to do. Two: they can't charge overtime. However, according to the Constitution, this is what we call overtime. Despite their hard work, this mass can't afford overtime, it can't risk work. So, when we think about how they live in a family, they have problems like day care, services, and food. So that's the kind of arrangement they need. If such an arrangement had been brought, of course, we would have supported it, but the AKP's majority, unfortunately, rejected our demands in the Commission and other areas. My dear friends, when we came to the second wave, when we came to the second and third wave, the first wave that seemed like an innocent demand turned into the bag law. He's passed the bag law, and it's turned into soup, as a friend of ours just described. I think it's over the soup, and the offers with the second and third wave went into the sack, and this sack became the way the judge put it together and put it together with the label. My dear friends, the purpose for the second and third chapters of this bill is clear and certain, and let no one deceive one another. The goal is to win the majority in the Supreme Court. How will you win? You're going to pick 120 new members, you're going to build eight apartments, you're going to get a majority of people in the Supreme Court that you walk down the same road with and get wet together. It's not worth it, it's real. The second goal is to get the same majority in the court, to take over the majority of the people you're currently fighting against on the road together. The third is: to be able to make the HSYK, the heart of the judiciary, able to act in accordance with political colors, by giving extraordinary powers with new regulations. Now, if it were to take over the majority of these three... we wouldn't be exposed; that's political interference in the judiciary, but you don't stop here, so there's no stopping you. At such a critical point, you reverse the means of balance and control within the judiciary and create an uncontrollable judicial force which has reached the point where the parliamentary democratic system is a threat. You're taking away the powers of the administrative bodies formed in the judiciary, giving new powers to some of the organs you've just fabricated, and these newly formed organs and the powers vested in them, believe me, are not seen in the 1960 conflict, nor in the March 12th date of September 12th. Such a practice has not been seen in military regimes, intermediary regimes, during the period of precepts. How does this work, dear friends? In the Supreme Court, you get the majority of the First President by changing the Court after the 120 members and 8 new apartments of the first presidency after the new election of the first presidency, which is called the First Presidential Council. After you get the majority... it's bad after that. Number one, you're giving the business division between apartments to the first presidential board, which will be the new one, which office will go from the Supreme Court to which apartment, which office will take care of which job. So whose case is almost equipped with the power of this Presidential Court to make appropriate decisions for him. There's no law like that. That, of course, is against the principle of judgment. It's only right for people to know where to stand. You can take that right with a majority of fingers and give it to another board. And would that be fair, human, conscientious, legal? Of course not. Their second authority is: Which one of them will serve in which apartment? My dear friends, this is the job of the General Assembly according to its former state. Why? This is a balance mechanism within the Supreme Court. So, in the parliamentary system, there's not only a balance between legislation, execution, judgment, there's their own balance in the judiciary, there's their own control tools, because they're elected to the authorities within the judiciary. He has a natural responsibility to account for the election, the elected member will be re-elected, re-elected, and he has to answer for whether or not he is acting in accordance with the law with the voters. Therefore, it is wrong for members of such a General Assembly to be taken from that board and given to the First Presidential Court, which will then be majority. This wrong is able to eliminate the means of balance and control within the judiciary. The same is true in the court. That's where you get it from the Council of Presidents, give it to the presidential board. My dear friends, why is all this being done? Let's sit on the curve, let's talk straight. Mr. Secretary, he tried to state some legal reasons, but we know, as we know, the Turkish nation knows, and so does God above. You, 17-25 December, bring this to the door of corruption, money laundering, gold smuggling, when the government's particular people, their children, their relatives, their bureaucrats, their tails are stuck in the door of the law. My dear friends, the only way to get rid of this is to be judged in an independent and impartial judiciary. Other than that, there's no end to playing with judgment. You've played the judge so much that I'll give you the law numbers now, and you'll know their dates anyway. Eight times in the Supreme Court, eight times in 12 years. The Supreme Court's Law has been changed four or five times since it was committed; the wind blowing at the time of your government has been changed eight times according to the mane that touched the Zulfüyah. Take note: Law No. 4929, 5219, 5235, 6110, 6217, Code 650, Law 6494, Law 6545. The biggest changes in these laws have been made by severe winds that have touched the Zulfuera, according to conjunctural developments. My dear friends, you have changed the Law of the State eight times. You've made a change in the decree of 4390, 5435, 5536, 5720, 5793, 5217, 6110 and 643. Dear friends, you've changed the penal code within this law 11 times. You changed it again. Now, I want to talk about the main fault lines of these changes. One of the main fault lines is the 2010 Constitutional Amendment. So that's exactly what the speakers of the National Movement Party talked about on this stand. Then you told us: you read the fortune of the future. It wasn't a fortune, it came true as it was. Now we're saying the same thing. Where we stand is the rule of law, where we stand is the guarantee of the judge, where we stand is the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. The second fault line is 17-25 December, and before that, a February 7, 2013 MIT investigation. There you are, when you realize that the winds have touched your Zulfuia, the concept called "makulful doubt" so that they don't come upon us... yes, it's true, what the Minister has explained. ▪ Don't let this reasonable doubt work on us. How should we protect ourselves? For this reason, you have brought strong doubt based on concrete evidence, and after DGM, after the special jurisdictional courts, after the special authorities, after the courts, you have built a law order in the form of protecting a new state, not security, but the AKP. Once you've acquired the judicial justices of peace and achieved the majority of the HSYK and made some legal arrangements, there's one area you're going to attack now, and this is the parallel structure. Against the parallel structure, you bring in reasonable doubt to narrow down his asylum, legal defense fields, narrow down lawyers' access to evidence, and then you sign off on things that aren't going to happen. My dear friends, if you had interfered with the parallel structure of the PKK, which has taken taxes, taken troops, set up courts, opened schools, opened martyrdom, and fought with this parallel structure in a legal manner, there would have been no objection to you, but on the other hand, you are negotiating the sovereignty of the country with the Turkish nation -- sitting with the PKK -- in the pursuit of trade -- in the sweat, in the sweat, in the tears that it has acquired.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0165par0076	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Your time is up.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0164par0078	Here you are changing the State, the Supreme Court, the HSYK, to save yourselves from law, to save yourselves from corruption, money laundering, gold smuggling, and the Law of Punishment. This job is wrong. One day you'll be looking at worse doors where you'll be fighting, you'll be in need of a bigger battle of wills.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0165par0080	On behalf of the other speaker, Elazığ MP Mr. Shuay alpay, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0082	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the Supreme Court of Justices and Prosecutors Act and on the motion to make amendments to certain laws and laws. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. I tried to watch the speaker friends talk. Now, they're talking about building up the workload and reducing the files. Granted, society is dynamic and judgment is dynamic. If the judiciary responds to the needs of the dynamic society, it makes sense and solves problems, but given the change, development of economic and social events, and the change and diversification of conflicts in front of the judicial authorities, it's also dynamic in the face of this developing society, it's dynamic in judgment. Now, look, guys, we're trying to solve problems in the indelible reality of the state of law and in a law-enforcement state. So we're talking about the fair and effective functioning of the judicial system within the reality of the state of law, that's what we all have in common. So, what is our most fundamental approach to the fair and effective functioning of the trial? Judgement is the right to a fair trial. What is the most fundamental approach to the right to a fair trial again? It's the end of cases in a reasonable amount of time, in terms of the right to trial. In the 141st article of our Constitution and in the international agreements that we have signed, we have adopted important principles regarding the end of cases at reasonable time, which is a reasonable period of trial, and there is no hesitation about that. In view of this front, what processes did Turkey go through, and what challenges did it face? Yes, we've made a wide range of regulations regarding the right to trial and the right to a fair trial over the last four years, and there have been partial reductions in the files in front of the courts, and there may have been some relative changes in their total time of view. But let's face it... Let me put it this way: look, especially in the Supreme Court, at the Supreme Court, at the end of 2013, the total number of files is from 165,000 to about 215 grand -- as of late September 2014 -- So we're talking cumulatively speaking of an increased file load. And once again, from the terms of the criminal files in the Supreme Court -- and I'm saying in terms of the number -- we're getting about 355,000 files at the end of 2013, at the end of September 2014, to about 395 thousand. I mean, the files don't end quickly, they build up, and as they build up, the weight of the workload, the burden of the workload, makes both the judiciary controversial, and the hesitations about our judges and prosecutors, and the high-profile hesitations. It's a reality we all accept. So the thing to do is... yeah, we've made changes in four years, but at the same time, we're putting together a reality like solving this problem with this approach, which has a wide variety of circumstances, including developing economic conditions, social conditions, and the diversification of conflicts, depending on economic conditions. So that's what we've been trying to tell you, and that's what we've been trying to tell you on the commissions, and that's what we've been trying to figure out. Of course, statistics -- I mean, they may be misleading, but -- they tell the truth a lot, the numbers are there. Yes, we are faced with a reality of reducing the workload of the judiciary, and yes, in the environment where the sense of justice occurs, our judges and prosecutors must soon finish the files and act at the point of carrying out the sense of justice, and society must be satisfied with that. That's why we're increasing the number of apartments in both the Supreme Court and the Court, and depending on that, there's an increase in number of members.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0167par0088	Why don't you set up a court of law?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0089	There's a social reality about the litigation courts, and there's a process going on.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0168par0090	The process isn't over, Mr. Shuay.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0091	It is necessary to repeat: society is dynamic, judicial dynamic; and so much justice has to respond to society's needs.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0169par0092	Come on, you don't believe that yourself.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0093	The judiciary has been controversial in Turkey for a long time. We're trying to stop the trial from being controversial again. We're trying to make things more qualified for our judges and prosecutors, and so we're going to make arrangements for their rights.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0169par0094	You're fooling the public.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0095	Dear friends, in regard to the judiciary, it is our collective duty to reach a judgment that is free of everyone's sense of discomfort and everyone's sure that the sense of justice comes true. We're working on it.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0170par0096	You've been a great justice for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0097	We know from time to time that there have been questions about our approach, but we are sincere about it, our approaches are sincere.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0170par0098	In the sledgehammer, in Ergenekon. You were saying, "We are prosecutors." What happened?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0166par0099	We're left with a historical responsibility to solve the problems of the judiciary, and in the process... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, you know, every year at the opening of a trial, the high-profile presidents make statements that depend on it. Let's all solve this problem and put our approach to it. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0171par0104	Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. We divided our time by fifteen minutes, seven and a half and a half. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who enter the system to ask questions in order. Mr. Kokturk, please.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0172par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the ceremony of the jurisprudence is held in Article 59 of the Supreme Court. The offer we're meeting with tonight is being cancelled. The removal of the regulation in the talks on the commission did not mean abolition of the ceremonies, but was expressed by both your side and by the Commission and AKP spokesman. However, Mr. Recep Special, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, said the opening ceremony for the judicial year has been lifted. Question number one: which one of these explanations is true? Are you removing the arrangement with the idea that it's unnecessary, or is it a forensic year's ceremony? My second question: What is the percentage of the President's share of May 10, 2014 when this arrangement is lifted from the law? Has the president given you any orders or instructions to your side, your ministry, or the bidders to remove this provision from the law?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0173par0111	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0174par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there's an interesting situation for Artvin, especially in terms of my constituency. There is an interesting situation in the use of Batum Airport in decisions related to the ban. Batum Airport is one of two examples in the world; one is in Switzerland; one is in Turkey. Those who want to fly out of Ankara or İstanbul will come to Hopa, for example, on domestic flights, considered abroad, actually flying with a normal TC identity, but are banning them abroad. So there's a problem with that, and we see it many times in practice. Will you have a general or instruction on this matter? At Batum Airport, our citizens who use the Hopa terminal are not actually going abroad, there's a special practice, there's a one-pronged situation. Do you intend to make a correction on that? Do you think that those who want to travel by using the Hopa terminal, even though they're not abroad, that they've never set foot abroad, in such a case, you'd be able to eliminate their victims?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0173par0115	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0175par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, after the December 17th-25th operations, how many judges and prosecutors have been replaced on what grounds so far? Are there any judges and prosecutors who have been investigated or dismissed? My second question: Is it true that, according to media reports today, PKK terrorists in Diyarbakır have closed some streets and put PKK flags on houses, all apartments? Do you think you've done anything about it, or if you haven't done anything about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0176par0121	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0177par0123	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, who will account for the passing of the judiciary into the hands of the parallel structure during the AKP ruling period? If justice is in the hands of the parallel structure, who will compensate the loss of the citizens who have been harmed by the decisions made by this judgment? ▪ Do you consider a pardon for the people convicted by the judgment you refer to as parallel? If not, how will you compensate for the damage this parallel judiciary has done to citizens? Does this bill have anything to do with the December 17th or 25th corruption operation? If it wasn't for the December 17th-25th operation, would you have brought this bill? With the dollars in the shoeboxes, the watches in the arms, the money in the pool in the middle, the court's non-obsession decision didn't shake the trust in the judiciary?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0178par0126	Thank you. Mr. Scholar Light Master, Mr. Janiseri has outdone you this time.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0179par0128	He's our teacher, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0178par0129	Yeah, I guess that's it. Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0180par0131	Mr. Secretary, the other day you said that you would release 300 PKK members in a speech. How are you gonna do that, get a pardon, cover it up with a doctor's report? Second question: We can't go shopping in the market, a prosecutor from east and southeast. How are you going to ensure the safety of your district attorney, your judge? Is it possible for them to make a fair decision? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0181par0134	Thank you, too. Mr. Akagun Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0182par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you and your friends from the AKP Group are claiming that the burden is too much, the files are too much. When will law courts, district court courts and district administration courts be held, and when will they be active? And after they're set up, you're going to reduce the Supreme Court and the State's number of apartments and the number of members? We have also repeatedly said that the main problem with the trial is that the young judge and prosecutors are not objective in their transitions, that the interview commission is not visually available, and that only the Department of Justice bureaucrats are involved. Do you intend to change the interview commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0183par0139	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0184par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just been interrupted, and I'd like to ask you again: you terminated the position of the First Presidential Council on June 28, 2014, with no grounds for its legal election authority. Under this Law 6545, a new election was made just four months ago, and the new body, which was chosen to prioritize experience and seniority, is also intended to be terminated by this offer. How long will this intervention last? The executive board will be pleased with how this board is formed. Wouldn't it be unfair to put such a burden on the members of the high judiciary, who will be chosen for the third time on this board? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0185par0144	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0146	Yes, Mr. President, dear friends... Mr. Kokturk: Does the removal of the item that regulates the opening of the Adli year mean banning judicial annual ceremonies? Once, I listened to the speech of our deputy, but this arrangement is not an arrangement that prohibits the annual proceedings. The dissolution of the clause does not prohibit, forbids, prevents the opening of the judicial year, only the monopoly given to the Supreme Court in this area ends, and a full freedom is granted for the opening of the judicial year. Both the courts and the courts are already doing this, and from now on, our Supreme Court will be able to perform this year's opening ceremony. They said in financial matters, in the Commission, there might be some problems. We can support that, and when there's trouble, we can support the Foundation for Enhancing Justice, and other budget pens. When there is a problem with an arrangement, we provide all kinds of financial support, and I would like to express it specifically from here. What Mr. Bayraktutan said about Batum Airport is, of course, not something I can answer correctly, but I take it as a duty. I'll talk to both our Minister of Transport and other relevant authorities personally, and I'll follow up, I want you to know. Of course, Mr. Light has a question about how many judges and prosecutors have been replaced on December 17-25? There are no judges or prosecutors who have been replaced as being investigated on December 17 and December 25th. I mean, there are changes in place, alibis made, some of those alibis, for other reasons, for example, say Muammar was Akkash, for example, for example, he handed out a memo, so I know that there's been a change in the need of service in that frame, others, an excuse decision, but since it happened at that time, all those who were involved in this plea decree were sent to the public as if they were in contact with them. The number of people appointed by service -- of course, not all of those in that decree, but some of them personally -- is very little, I would like to express it specifically. I need to examine the matter you asked about Diyarbakır, and I, in fact, couldn't follow it, so I don't want to give you any false information from here. However, if there's something like you say, it's about that, of course, the armband has to intervene, do what it's supposed to do. I suppose, if it did, the intervention must have been done, but once I have some accurate information about the process, I'll be able to give you some information. Mr. Janisari, he's asked a lot of questions, so once he's in a lot of order, the truth is, I'm having trouble answering all of them, and he appreciates them, and I may not be able to answer all of them. I explained that these regulations are directly related to the Supreme Court and the Court's workload, which increases the number of members in the Supreme Court and the Court. We don't have any thoughts of forgiveness. I'd like to express that in particular. They say here from time to time, we have no such thought. I'd like to rephrase that.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0187par0153	But he can leave tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0154	Of course, the independence and neutrality of the judiciary are a subject that we all have to be sensitive about. It is the most concrete indicator of the independence and neutrality of the judiciary when those who serve as judges act with a conscientious opinion in accordance with the Constitution, the law, and the law as they carry out their duties. I've always said, no matter what arrangement we make, we can't ensure the independence and neutrality of the judiciary with legal regulations unless the regulations on paper are properly implemented by the enforcers. The real guarantee is that in addition to the legal provisions, those who serve as judges also make fair decisions. Any democratic country can't condone the existence of any person who is not bound by its laws, its constitution and its conscience in its own judiciary, acting with other commitments. He can't ignore such a presence, and if he does, the state of law will be destroyed, where the independence of the judiciary will be destroyed, and the healthy democracy will be destroyed. We all, together, have to take care of the state of law. Ahmet Duran Bulut sir asks me to answer a question asked during the Plan and Budget Commission talks about the release of 300 PKK members. I didn't make that kind of statement once. We're going to release 300 PKK members. I certainly don't have that kind of explanation. I have friends in the Plan and Budget Commission, they're here, we've got friends from the MPP, we've got CHP, they're witnesses to that. The question I've been asked is: how many people are in prisons where they're in prisons, where they can't live alone, where they're stable with a committee report and whose report has been approved by the Forensic Medical Association? I gave them figures, and what do you think of them? We think of it as a human matter, we see. So everyone who's in prison, no matter what crime he's committed, is entrusted to our government of his family and loved ones. We, the government, are responsible for their health, their every need, their safety, we need to do what we have to do. If one person can't live alone in prison with a committee report, if he's bedridden, and for treatment, it's supposed to go into another environment, we need to make an assessment here.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0188par0157	How many are there in this situation?
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0189par0158	Mr. Secretary, the attacker becomes a live bomb.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0159	We also need to make a conscious assessment, and we need to make a human assessment, but I'm sure we'll release the PKK people. I haven't had an explanation, and it's not possible. I can't make that assessment.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0190par0160	You do it with the President's forgiveness.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0161	I mean, my conscience isn't up for that kind of evaluation either. My understanding isn't available either. I mean, whatever the law is, it's about...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0191par0162	How many...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0163	About how many people have been reported or continued reporting from patients, prisoners and prisoners in prisons...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0192par0164	Over 500...
tbmm-2014-11-25sit04spe0186par0165	If you'd like me to introduce you to the numbers tomorrow, I don't have the exact numbers right now. I explained it in the Plan and Budget Commission, but tomorrow, if you want, I'll come to you with these numbers here, my friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-25sit05spe0193par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 18th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 655. No commission. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 4th ranking Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. No commission. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Parliamentary Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place. No commission. It's been postponed. It is clear that there will be no commission for other jobs. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (November 26th 2014) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you, and good night.
