tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're going on the agenda. According to the programme, we will continue negotiations on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Last year's merger was adopted on Article 13 of the 2015 Centre Management Budget Law Bill. MADDE 14- (1) This Law takes effect on 1/1/2015. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the National Party for Action...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0002par0014	We don't have a speaker right now, and then...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0001par0015	You don't have a speaker, so when you come back later... On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Umit Özgüşmiş. Here you go, Mr. Ozgim. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0003par0020	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. We're at the end of another budget interview. The numbers have been flying here for about ten days. If you take some numbers from either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Bank of Finance or tens of thousands of other agencies, the Turkish economy will fly away and if you take some numbers, it will look like it's screwed up. In the first hour of Harvard University's Economic Statistics Department, traditionally the teacher's speech was: children, numbers are donkeys; hold them up, take them wherever you want. You can actually fly some of these numbers, take some of them and make the economy look bankrupt. But no matter what number you put in Turkey, there's a fact that everyone knows, sees, feels that Turkey, especially during AKP power, withdraws from production in industry and agriculture, falls into a net importer position, and this process continues. The Republican People's Party has an economic unit, there are a lot of numbers and analyses in the economic unit, but I want to give you a few examples of the official figures of the state, not them, and they're saying that the share of the industry in GDP was 21 per cent in 2002 -- this, 97; that was 26 per cent in the 98s -- has been reduced to 19.2 per cent in late 2012. The production industry, which is the bottom of the industry, was worse, 17.6% in 2002, and 15.3 percent in 2013. However, one of the main goals in the Ninth Development Plan, covering the 2007-2013 period, was to increase the share of industry within the domestic product. The same progress is being made in agriculture. In 2002, agriculture's GDP was 10.1 per cent, while by 2012, it dropped to 7.7 per cent. A not-so-happy number here has increased from 4.2 to 4.4, the share of construction within the gross domestic income, which is not a very productive, efficient, bread-growing industry. From time to time, the talks here are as successful, as successful, as we've brought exports to this point. The numbers are given. That's right, it went from $36 billion in 2002 to 151 billion in 2013, but that doesn't mean anything. What's important here is the rate of exports accepted worldwide. So, when you expand exports, can you also reduce imports, or is imports growing with exports? Our imports rose from $51.5 billion in 2002 to $251.6 billion in 2013, and the yellow alarm of the world's import rate is 70 percent; in 2002, the 60.3% border, which will have a red alarm at 69.9 per cent, 70 per cent in 2013, 60.3%. Now, another indicator, which is important to Turkey, is open. Cari's been running low in the open lately, but explain the current, growing together, growing in the third quarter, 1.7. It's not about shrinking the economy and expanding the current deficit, it's about expanding the economy, expanding exports, shortening imports, reducing current deficits. Can this be done? Yeah, China's been doing this for the last 20 years, both expanding its economy and overselling its foreign trade, and therefore giving it too much. Dear friends, the natural result of this unhealthy economy reflects unemployment. Look, according to TÜİK figures, unemployment is back to double digits, 10.5 per cent, and the number of unemployed is over 3 million. Especially in young people, young unemployed, it's worse, 19.1 percent. These are government figures. Of course, there are some distortion categories of the TÜİK (TİK). One of them is that unemployed people who are no longer looking for a job are no longer in this category. For example, there are 2,485,000 people who are ready to work and not look for work. Those who have no hope of finding a job are 593,000 people. If you add these, the unemployment rate in Turkey is currently 6m,142,000 people according to official figures. So when you walk out of here and enter one of the two houses, there's only one college graduate unemployed. We need a new industrial development model, we need a new incentive model, we need a new development agency model; with this model, we can't grow the bread, we can't grow Turkey with just construction and the service sector alone, we can't grow the bread. From time to time, we offer research proposals in these matters with good intentions, but those who agree... Those who don't... are always rejected by the research proposals we give through the system. We say that the incentive system is wrong and that it doesn't expand the economy; we say we investigate, but you say no, but TİİK released employment data from 2008-2013, and in 2008, when you analyze through four regions because Turkey is four districts in incentives, the unemployment rate in the area of Istanbul, the area where the industry developed, rises from 11.2% to 10.8 per cent in the southeast, from 10.7 per cent in the 4th region. This is a failure of the incentive system, which needs to be investigated. Finance policy: our Minister is here. The finance system is still in Turkey -- before the AKP's rule, and now, in the twelve-year AKP rule -- the system is the Saldim meadow, Mevlaym kataka. When the AKP is established, in the Government Programme, in the Emergency Action Plan, in the former Finance Minister's Office, during our Minister of Finance, it is said that the informal economy will be recorded, tax rates will be reduced, tax rates will be spread, fancy words are spoken, but no action will ever be taken. Two months ago, Mr. Minister had a statement saying: "The new action plan, the new field of action, is on its way outside the record." What did you do about the off-the-book struggle before, so that there's something new? Gunpowder's run out, taxed on indirect taxes when it's not spread to the ground -- I'm not going to go into numbers here -- but it's a fuel pump that keeps the system going and the indirect taxes and the indirect taxes that keep the system going, like the best tax offices. Second, credit cards that saved the system. If it wasn't for credit cards, you'd see what that unregisterment would be like. Now, when you can't collect taxes, you say, "Saving, saving," and you kill us with laughter. You're building an illegal palace for $1.5 billion, and you're raising the presidential budget to $397 million, which was $199 million in the return of Mr. Abdullah Gul. Why do you have to add 300 million liras? We know why. On the other hand, you buy a car for $1 million to the president of the Religious Affairs, and then you ban a plaque. Dear friends, three plaques a day, 365 days, 1,000 plaques a year. The average plaque is $30, and you'll save $30,000. I'm telling you, if it's going to save the government, it's going to be my salary. What kind of a savings measure is that? Now, you don't specifically assign teachers to save money. Young people are crying, unemployed, they've finished college, they've become teachers, you're not doing their assignments to save money. Mr. Secretary says that it is not possible for the state to get jobs for all college graduates. It is true. A food engineer, an agricultural engineer, can find work in other areas, but can't find a teacher. Look, if you want to save money, I'm offering you a savings: 550 members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I swear half of them are free. We saw some friends here yesterday, we asked each other, and we said, "When did these come, did they come in the midterm? If you want to save money, reduce the number of MPs to 300. One MP's salary, two advisors, secretary and other salaries cost the state 300,000 liras. If you reduce it to 350, save 200 MPs, you save $60 million, which brings about 3,000 teachers' appointments and their salaries. There's a lot to talk about on the budget, time's up. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0004par0038	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim. Van MP Nazmi Gür on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. On the 2015 budget, I made a commitment to the 14th Amendment. Here we will share our thoughts, our views on this budget once again with our people. We have discussed earlier that this budget, in fact, does not have a public budget with its structure and the way it is prepared, but is a multinational budget, a budget that fits an authoritarian state structure. Our views on this matter are also broad in our opposition, brought to the knowledge of our people. So here I'm going to share with you a brief example of how secretive and centralized this budget is in terms of interregional development and is actually a segregationary budget by creating a difference in territorial development. Dear friends, there's no need to go far between the west and the east of Turkey, not even far from the east of Turkey, but if you keep Ankara, and some of the provinces of Central Anatolia, if you include some of the provinces of the Central Anatolian, you'll immediately see that there's a serious development difference between Turkey, the West and the East. This development difference has had a lot to do with the segregation budgets run by the central governments since the founding of the republic, because our people need to remove discrimination in these provinces, by the policies of the state in these regions, and by being equal in all parts of the country, because development is actually a right-of-the-art, where we need to set up budgets in order to get jobs, to increase the level of development and human development and prosperity. When we look at this budget, we can see that this budget is focused on certain parts of the country, both in terms of industry and energy needs, both in terms of employment and in terms of production. That's why if we're talking about an internal migration today, economic migration, we can all see that this has something to do with these segregation policies. Dear friends, if today there is a low population in Çorum, or some Central Anatolian provinces, it is undoubtedly about the fact that people have broken out of those regions to meet the need for food and bread, and eventually to attack Ankara, and Istanbul, and other developed areas. Because the young people there, the women, the labor force there, are suffering from unemployment problems, and therefore they migrate, and where they come from, they create cheap labor markets, and unfortunately, we can see from the size of unemployment figures that have not even taken a small step during the last 12 years of government power. Dear friends, there is no doubt that every corner of our country, every province, every region, has its own wealth, geography, and its own unique economic structure. If we put aside all the government's planning, the authoritarian approach to the central government's budgetary rights, and if we really set up a budget for the development of each region equally with other regions, I believe that in five decades, all parts of Turkey can be overcome both in terms of human development, both in terms of economic development, both in terms of prosperity and unemployment. But there's an industry in Turkey that's created with such a huge imbalance that there's an economic economy where our people are, where they are, where they are, where they are, where they are, where they are, and where they're going to live, this state, this government is still facing serious problems. Given the height of unemployment rates, especially in those eastern regions, and the presence of low-rent labour force, cheap labour markets in the west, we can say that this distorted economic approach, this warped mentality, has really failed to solve Turkey's economic problems, its enormous problems. When we say that this is a budgetary budget, we should say that there is also a segregative budget in the context of equality between men and women. It is also useful to note here that some sources that have been transferred to women through small pens, especially through social pens, are undoubtedly inadequate and are no more than the approach of friends in the market. It's also a serious discrimination for women. Yeah, well, just a few days ago, our President said that equality between men and women was not possible, that it was actually a creation, a futrate problem... Therefore, such understanding, such a mentality, such an ideological approach, it is wise to say that such a philosophical infrastructure is not a budget for women. It's a segregated budget, dear friends. And there's a lot of serious discrimination here in terms of the conflict of labor and business, because it's a budget of valuable friends, capitalists. In drafting this budget, I don't think the opinion of labor organizations, the working class, has been taken into account. We can see this when we see the minimum wage, when we think about the minimum wage, when we think about the workers' wages, when we see the workouts. In Istanbul, in Soma, in Ermenek, in Ermenek, while working thousands and hundreds of feet below the ground and working with their lives, it is wise to say that they are subject to a fee that is not at all in return for their labor. Therefore, there is a very segregating, very militant budget structure for workers, and we can say that the government, which is preparing this budget, is not at all sensitive about it, is excluding a large part of our country's hard work, and we are ultimately dealing with a budget structure that protects capital and capital. This budget, dear friends, is a segregative budget against our geography, against our environment, against ecology, because the 2015 budget, which is prepared together with this budget, is a budget that will bring up environmental massacres, especially because it envisions investments in HESESTs, dams, thermal power plants, and therefore ignores our environment. It's safe to say that it's a structure that will slaughter them, the environment, the industry, the environment, destroy our ecology, the environment that we live in. Because, along with this budget, dear friends, our environment, our forests, our water, especially our rivers are threatened, so all living creatures, especially humans, are the main target of this threat. We, of course, think that future budgets, along with more democratic and public, will play a higher role in Turkey's development, democratisation of Turkey. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0006par0055	Thank you, Mr. Gür. In the name of his personal name, MP Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0007par0059	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, yes, I did a general analysis on the budget yesterday, and I told you how you tried to show people dust pink, and I specifically told you to answer me, so no one would answer. I'm going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. One of Turkey's biggest problems is unemployment, friends. You came 12 years ago, we will also solve unemployment, which is one of the major problems in this country. You made a commitment to this nation, and with the budgets you make every year, there's no structure in these budgets to solve this unemployment problem, there's no amount of investment in the 2015 budget, and that's not enough. What do we think of when we say unemployment? All the trade groups are coming. Don't think there's a lot of unemployed people in the labor group we just call unqualified. No, there are a lot of unemployed people in all groups, and especially in your time of power in the last few years, you know, when you brag, you turn high schools into colleges, you train colleges in high school buildings, people and you graduate. And then we don't have to find jobs for everyone who graduates from every university. There's also the word of today's President, the Prime Minister of the past. So, who's gonna get these people the job? That's the important question. How will the prime minister of a country create jobs, a country's ruling party, lawmakers serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, try to resolve the business problem in Turkey, solve unemployment? When we look at 12 years, we see that you're not making that effort, and the numbers confirm me. Today's figures have reached more than 10 percent - double digits. When was the last time we got these numbers? We got those numbers in crises. Of course, when you look at the details of these numbers, we see that the most unemployment rate is in college graduates. What's the ratio? We're talking over 30 percent. We see that the unemployment rate in young people has increased by 19 percent to 20 percent. This was the truth of Turkey 12 years ago and the truth of Turkey today. So, you've done nothing in unemployment, even your consumer-based economic model, and your non-producing economic model, you think you've solved the business problem just by running people at minimum wage at the mall where you've been running a runt transfer. I live in the capital of the industry, Ableeli. Of every 10 phone calls I get -- more or less every day -- at least eight of them have problems with unemployment and employment. Citizens are calling all the time, even though we're in the industrial capital, where there's the most jobs available, we can't solve the unemployment problem of these citizens. When you look at the ranking of Turkey on unemployment, you will find that he is the eighth in unemployment. You're going to say, how come? Is there any unemployment in a Kopeli, which pays 12 per cent for Turkey's budget, for 12 per cent of the illegal domestic market? Yes, Avevile is an unemployed town. Well, he's unemployed... he's also the poor town, and he's the sixth in poverty. You know, the hunger limit, the poverty limit. My job-finding brothers work under the hunger line, too, folks. What's he working with? At minimum wage, it works for $890. Why is it working? Because you've drawn so much capital that they're going to make the country work for free. 44% of the people working in my town work for minimum wage. I'm like Ford all over the place, no offense to me, coach group. There are 5,500 workers working at the Ford factory. All of these workers graduated from industrial high school and graduated from two years of university of applied sciences, but unfortunately the maximum salary these workers receive is 1,200 liras, starting at 890 liras, up to 1,200 liras. That's it? Bingo. That's it? We're building that iron-strength factory that you're so proud of here. You're saying that the Koreans have come, they're producing. In the factories where you sit in the belly of Izmit, they're running these young people between $890 and $1200. Now, I'm asking you, friends: You know what he says, the Prime Minister of the past, today's President: you're going to have at least three children. How do these young people get the chance to have three children? They can't even get a chance to get married, let alone get married. The other day, I believe, a friend of mine, a member of parliament, told me to help you marry young people from this bench. It was a good point. Even a working boy can't get married.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0008par0065	Ardahan said MP.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0007par0066	The unemployment problem needs to be solved very quickly. And to do that, we need to focus our heads on production. He says if we can't produce it in the country, we can't solve it, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0009par0069	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0010par0073	Dear friends, I salute you all. Dear Haydar Group, I'd like to begin with the matter of my Vice President's unemployment.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0010par0076	Dear friends, after the global crisis, there has indeed been an increase in unemployment in the world, so it's true, but congratulations on the actions of the EC PARTY government. Why? Throughout the EC PARTY governments, 5,600,000 unemployed have been opened the door to work. In the last year alone, 1,70,000 people have settled in. Of course, it's a bit of a difficult process to actually reduce the increase in employment in unemployment, and that's where I'm going. Besides, the AK PARTY governments have always followed investment projects, so before the AK PARTY governments, there was a paper economy that we all knew about; this party, this party, this party, I don't mean, the economy was at that point. Yeah, well, the money was being deposited in the stock market, and it was coming out of the government bonds, into three months' interest.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0011par0077	It's the same thing again.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0010par0078	Guys, it's not the same. We lived in person, I'm an industrialist. While we were investing in machines, someone took 52.5 per cent in three months, and in the second three months 37.5 per cent were clear; we experienced them. But at the point where we're here today, let me give you an example of my own knowledge, because it's called investment. Today, Gaziantep founded the 5th district in organised industry, and the 5th district is no longer enough for us. Look...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0011par0079	We have sixteen.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0010par0080	My dear brother, so, look, you're getting better, congratulations. Today, in the 5th organization... we don't organize things like that for a reason. Energy consumption in Gaziantep OSB alone increased 11.8% this year. What does that mean? Industrial production has increased by 12 percent more in Gaziantep. Besides, right now, we're developing a joint project with the Church. It's called Poleteli, and we're going to make a 19 million square metres of OSB that we're implementing right now, and the industrialists in Gaziantep, the industrialists in the Church, are looking forward to this project. We're running out of CED reports right now. From the moment the 19 million square meters are over, we're trying to take the second step right now. What are we doing? By combining 25 million square meters of Gaziantep's foot, we're going to build a massive 44 million square metres of OSB in Turkey, and look, what do we do next? We're not staying with him, we're combining this OSB with the industry in Gaziantep, and we're taking the Hassa-Fourway to the ports with the Alexander Project. Ninety-six miles. Friends, a little, of course, have to be merciful. Since 1946, there's not been a single nail in the railroad road, so look, until today...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0011par0082	Don't go into the railroads. You don't know, the hero of the railroads is here.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0010par0083	We don't need anything, just look at the roller coasters. I'm not talking about it as a cross-referencession. Let's not forget that today, in airlines, only Istanbul, the airport is a huge investment in carrying 150 million passengers. With dams of 1.5 billion, or 1.5 quadrillion this year alone in Gaziantep alone, only this year, 710,000 acres of land will be watered by Adıyaman, Gaziantep, Kahramanmarash land, which will be added to an additional 250 million euros a year. In addition, we are again watering Kahramanmarash, Gaziantep, Amik Plains, with a Guide Dam -- again regional -- and we are taking steps to develop that region by taking two products, three products a year, even in industrial agriculture. What's all this stuff, guys? We have built the Doğanpınar Dam, see, we have taken steps by combining it with Kayacık (Kilis) and Elbeyli (Kilis and Elbeyli) to the district of Oğuzezeli of Gaziantep (Ghazeli). Now, there was the Ardil Dam, it's been mentioned for 50 years, the foundation of the dam has been laid, and the irrigation ducts are being built. Now, when these are always done, what are they done with? So there is a production economy in Turkey. The national war industry has been established. Yeah. Today, until now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm done talking. I salute you all with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0012par0096	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan. Moving on to QA. We're ten minutes out. I'll take five minutes to ask questions, five minutes to answer. Here you go, Mr. Akar, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0013par0100	Mr. Secretary, from time to time, you inform the public, as is the principle of transparency and accountability, as is the cost of an illegal palace, sometimes you do these things. The finance ministry budget provides a grant for the mayors, as well as for the grants, which are used during the year, year after year. However, your ministry has not been explained to the public which municipalities have paid for this period's grants, how much and what obligation it is, nor has it been answered to the questions of our MPs, and you have ignored the constitutional control authority of the Turkish Parliament. I expect you to explain how much and what obligations have been paid to the municipalities in the past five years. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0012par0102	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0014par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to ask you again in detail in Article 4 when I'm reviewing the Central Management Final Accounts Bill, but I'd like to ask you about the supplementary grant. There's a supplementary grant here. What does that mean? Why was it needed? Can you tell me about this, please? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0015par0107	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0016par0109	Mr. President, thank you. According to Article 34 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to hold an unarmed and non-aggressive meeting and demonstration march without prior permission. Our teachers who fought for democratic rights based on their constitutional rights were subjected to a violent regime in Ankara with gas, violence and heavy pressure. I strongly condemn the violence and bullying and detentions of the teacher's march to protest the exploited rights and erosion of the education union. EDUCATION President Veli Demir and our teachers' righteous struggle will not be prevented, as in the dictatorship regime, this tyranny order will surely change. The government's authority is enough for teachers who hold pencils. I regret this violence against Republican values, against democratic individuals, against those who think differently.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0015par0111	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0017par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've been asking for years, and I'll keep asking. Why isn't Turkey taking the financial readership exam in the PISA exams? As far as I know the cost of this test is less than 30,000 euros, and if we pass this test, Turkey will realize how far behind OECD countries have fallen at the financial reading point, and the knitting will add financial literacy lessons to education. In a question I asked the Ministry of National Education, we don't teach it so we can take the test. It's not just a matter of education, you know, it's an obligation to get rid of Turkey's middle income trap and to get rid of the low savings rate. I expect you to step forward on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0018par0117	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0019par0119	Minister Giresun is the province that has at least a share in economic and development within the eastern Black Sea provinces. THE DOCAP is an institution that aims to eliminate the development difference between cities and ensure the development of the backward provinces. Unfortunately, in this project, Giresun did not see any economic benefits. Also, according to the provinces of Tripoli, Rize, the province of the Army, according to our neighbours, Giresun is the least shareholder of public resources. Giresun's economy has lost its momentum because of policies your government has implemented, the SECA Aksu Paper Factory has shut down and 110,000 people have migrated from Giresun in ten years, migrating with these policies. I say on your economic map, number 28. Isn't there a place for lulu Giresun? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0020par0124	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0021par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. As of today, Mr. Secretary, what is the external debt of the state and private enterprise? In this foreign debt, how much of the private enterprise's debt does the banks vouch for? This is very important, so I want you to put it in numbers first. Mr. Minister, Recep Erdogan Bali has given a directive to Yıldırım. He said: "Yahu, look, this is how much we pay contractors. You go and collect a hundred million dollars from them. This is a hundred million dollars, here, taken from Kolin, taken from Genghis Construction, taken from Limak. There are $630 million collected by this figure. Now, according to the Turkish tax system of 630 million dollars, if it's a donation, it should be paid a grant tax, which should be taxed without notice. Did you do a procedure on that? Where is this $630 million money now? That's what I want to know, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0022par0129	Thank you, Mr. Young. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we don't help municipalities on principle. I'll tell you this: there's never been a principled aid, except for the fact that there's been a massive flood, like a fire, like a terrorist incident. For example, the total amount of money given to municipalities in 2013 is only $11,808,201. Look, when you compare it to the budget, it's probably about 1 in 100,000. In 2014, again, 11 million 378 thousand in this frame. Now, the budget is going to be about 450 billion dollars this year, when you divide it, so we're not helping any city, except in very exceptional cases, and I don't have it right now. Now, to the second question, Mr. Kusoglu, the supplementary grant...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0024par0134	I've asked about the mandatory circumstances, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0135	I told you, floods, fires, terrors, that sort of thing.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0024par0136	Okay, so there's no problem explaining that. Explain, then. It's all right.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0137	Completive funding... you're already talking about 11 million, 11 million. So you're talking about $11 million in a $450 billion budget. So you'll see, very clearly, that I don't help municipalities on principle. Compulsory allowance has existed since the early years of the republic, where the Constitution of 1924 was implemented. He's been in almost all of the laws of accountability. Now, I'm going to give you an example, my friends have even printed the official newspaper of the 1940s, but don't go into the details. In almost every period, every government has its grant complete. What do you mean? It means, for example, this year, let's say that our tax revenues have come out more than we anticipated, and we've invested it, but this kind of investment has never been foreseen before. So we also have incomes that we need. For example, this year we predicted a budget deficit of $33.5 billion, and we're going to close about $24,25 billion. So we've achieved our budgetary goal very easily, despite the two elections, despite the turmoil in the Middle East, despite the crisis in Russia, despite the crisis in Europe, we've achieved the budget deficit goal. But let's say there's an opportunity here to make investment expenditures more than anticipated, and since there's been additional spending in this framework, there's an additional, complementary grant here, but like I said, in all governments, there's been a supplementary grant since 1924, and it's not the first time it's been implemented. We have the utmost respect for the rights of all our employees, of our unions, of democratic rights. I don't know the details of yesterday's events, and if there is, I think something wrong must be done. The question of Mr. Erdemir is a very meaningful question, thank you. Financial reading is something that I think this country needs to focus on, and I think it needs to be trained in schools, too, because if that happens, maybe a citizen can come out from time to time and take a more accurate stance on a lot of things, from the use of public resources to many other dimensions. Because look, I've been going through this a lot in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we're not living here because there's a budget, but I'm getting a sense of how much we can distribute before the source comes up. If only financial readers were very, very good, but they were also questioned, where is the source? Look, that's the most important issue. In the West, I think it's the most important...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0025par0142	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you two more minutes for your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0144	Thank you, Mr. President, that's very kind of you. So, basically, I agree with you. It must be part of the curriculum. If it's not 30,000, if it costs 300,000, we have to take that test. But I also have this impression that when you travel with our citizen, even a taxi driver, from the stock market, from the exchange rate, and so on, these issues are very sensitive after the 1990s. A lot of people know about inflation, real interest, even interest-free excess... in some countries, honestly, even if even many economists don't know about extra interest, our citizens have learned about it in these processes. As for the question of Mr. Young. Dear friends, let me give you the numbers: as of the second quarter of 2014, the state's -- including the public's foreign debt -- including the central administration, the CSIs, etc. -- is $ 119.5 billion, and the Central Bank's $4.3 billion; as you can see when you collect it, it's $123.8 billion. In 2002, the public's $64.5 billion, the National Bank's $22 billion, so $88.5 billion. As for the private sector's debt, the private sector's debt is $278 billion. Therefore, the total external debt of the public and private sector is 401.7 billion dollars. If you divide this into a multinational income...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0026par0148	No, how much is the bail for private banks? I want bank bail on the debt of private enterprise.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0149	I don't get it. I mean, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0026par0150	Sir, when private enterprise gets the loan, does it show bail to the banks or not?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0151	Now, you get some loans without bail, you just look at your balance sheet, you look at your cash flow, you look at your investment project; some banks want collateral, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0026par0152	As a result, is there or is there no treasure guarantee for the money of private enterprise?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0153	Oh, say that. So, yes, until today, I'll tell you that I'm guaranteeing you that he might come yesterday... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, can I have a few more minutes?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0027par0156	Since the General Assembly wants to be briefed, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the treasure has given a $5.3 billion guarantee, a loan guarantee. These are related to three projects: the Eurasia Tunnel, the third bridge, and the third is the Izmit Gulf Pass Bridge. And they're already economically reasonable, rational, rational projects, so there's no way...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0028par0160	How much of the 278 billion is guaranteed treasure, and I want it?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0161	Now, there's no such thing as a question!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0028par0162	That's what I'm asking.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0163	Then it's like, if I knew exactly what you were asking, I'd answer. Now, look...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0028par0164	How much of his private venture debt does he have to bail out?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0023par0165	That's what I told you. Look, in the project, $5.3 billion has not been guaranteed to take on this kind of debt since 1999. But if I remember all the obligations of the entire period before that -- friends will get out of the treasure brochure -- 33 billion. The Treasury publishes this bulletin every month, so let's send you a copy of this bulletin.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0029par0167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 15- (1) This Law; A) Turkish Grand National Assembly President of Turkey, B) The President's Secretary-General of the presidency C) Chairman of the Court of Justice, ) The ministers and Finance Minister concerned with their provisions for public administration under the general budget, d) The ministers and Finance Minister, whose provisions for private budgetary administrations are related or related to the administrations, e) Its provisions for regulatory and regulatory institutions are by its own rules and/or heads of institutions, f) Minister of Finance of other provisions, It'll make you walk. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Korkurk. Here you go, Mr. Ranger.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0030par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we are nearing the end of the long budget negotiations. During the talks, we were given many numbers. The opposition has criticised many issues. But there has been an increase in national income per person, which has always been seen in the figures. Is this the case when you look at this? You should ask people, not just numbers -- easy to play with, as Mr. Özsüşmiş, the Adana MP, who spoke here before me, in the 14th article -- as Mr. Özsüşmiş said. The officers, workers, farmers, pensioners, even unemployed people who listen to us on their televisions ask themselves: Did our prosperity really increase or increase our money? When we go to the market, do we get less this year with the money we had in our pocket last year? As far as I'm concerned, I don't see this increase in my own pocket. If there's an increase, it's going into someone's pocket, apparently, but he's going into the pocket of a very small group, because of the injustice of the income distribution, not into the pockets of the greater society. From my point of view, when I was listening, it was that over the past year, there was a lot of unnecessary waste. I know that Mr. Finance Minister is a meticulous minister, a good bureaucrat, a good technician, and I'm guessing he hasn't taken any of this waste, but what was the need for a palace called the Fivetepe Presidential Facility, which is already called a crowded palace called a filling stop? The official price of this palace is 1 billion 377 million Turkish liras. That's a terrible number, guys. 890 Turkish lira is the minimum wage in Turkey today. Oh, what is it? He's been contributing to our reputation. Did the former presidency have a problem with the reputation of a place named Chankaya, identified with the Republic of Turkey? Now let me tell you a little story about dignity. When I was in Moscow, there was a Brazilian ambassador. This Brazilian ambassador was once a respected old man who was secretary-General in his hometown, a respected old man who did the State Department. He told us a story when he came to the embassy for dinner. I wasn't the Ambassador then. He said: "You had an ambassador in Brazil called Fuat Carim. This Fuat Carim entered the Instruction War, served as MP in the First Assembly, served as Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs in Turkey, and his last assignment was in Brazil Rio de Janeiro, a diplomat who was then the capital. This Fuat Carim calls young brilliant diplomats to his cooking while he was in Brazil to discuss world matters, philosophical matters. We'd love to have this conversation in a very gaudy setting of the embassy. When I made an official visit to Turkey, as Minister, I thought, what about Mr. Fuat? I said I had Fuat Car, you know? They said we know he retired, retired, lived in his house. I put him on the phone, told him I wanted to talk to him, and he invited me to dinner. I got up one night and went to his house for dinner; I was staying four days; I went to his house one night in Turkey. He lived in a pull-up floor on Tunisia Avenue, and there was no elevator, and we went up five floors, and he opened the door himself, and he let me in. He didn't have an employee at home, and he was alone at home. He put a clean white sheet of paper on his desk. We ate his own food. We sat there, and we talked about world matters, and we talked about world matters. At that time, Nasir was involved in a new initiative in Egypt. He told me about Nasir. He told Middle East how to reflect it. Brazil explained why this should concern it. He told us about Turkey, about Turkey's future. We've also discussed some philosophical issues. It was after midnight when I left home. And I said to myself, "What a happy person you are, a person like that gives you a night off, entertains you at home, offers you his own food. Fuat Carim was at the table where he spread the paper, comfortable in the fancy halls at the Rio de Janeiro Embassy, and he spoke equally to me without any complexes. This, my friends, is dignity. There's no need for palaces, there's no need for big buildings, there's no need for gold, there's no need for dignity. So there's no point in going into this desk for nothing. They renovated the residence of the president of the Grand National Assembly in Çankaya. The President of the Grand National Assembly had a very nice dwelling, folks. One of Turkey's greatest architects, Ismet Sheriff Vanlı, there was a beautiful building, like a jewel made by a jewel, where they destroyed it, instead of a Karagöz decor, really, think of the Karagöz halls, it's Karagöz pasha mansions and so on, they built a freaky building that looked like him in Karagöz's decor. They cut down hundreds of trees around it to be seen from the outside. I asked the Minister how much it cost yesterday, but he didn't answer. How much did that building cost? Is such a building necessary? We also understand that there is no need: I will not sit there during an interview with Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in November." he says. So, guys, why are we doing this? They've assigned the president the plane to the Prime Minister. This plane... it's Turkey's planes, but it's gone to San Antonio to be debriefed, you're getting it from France, you're sending it from Airbus to Texas, you're dismantling it. In the meantime, we've been through a wiretap scandal recently, and we all know it. In the office of the then Foreign Minister -- the current Prime Minister -- the state's top rank, which should not only be discussed in secret, but should not be discussed in any way -- has been heard and reflected outside. Now, you're installing this plane in Texas. They'll test the water that the Prime Minister washed his hands on in this plane. Technology is like this now, it puts molecules, and before you know it, everybody gets what's being talked about, what's being discussed. Is it considered or is it worth the expense? Now, we need to think about all this, and we need to stop wasting time in Turkey. Do not think that those who came to the palace, which the people of the Fivepepe have called the palace, seek honor there, and have dignity there. Let me give you some professional information as a member of the State Department. Traveling state officials are always given information notes to their elders. In those information notes, there is no doubt that the minimum income in Turkey is $890, the cost of that palace is explained by the government at $1 billion,377m, but there is also debate that it may be larger, causing serious debates and reactions. Those who come to it will not be affected by its wonder nor by its dignity; but those who come to it look to the right and to the left, in the curiosity of those who are in it; and they will say, "Allah is Allah's. This is the building which they built." By doing these things, we don't give our reputation credit, we ruin our reputation. So let's work on the fair distribution of prosperity in our budgets, in our future budgets. If our income is increasing, if our share of the individual is increasing, let's try to spread it to our people, not to a certain group. Since I'm a member of the investigative commission, there are other issues that I'd like to bring up here, but I can't talk about them, I'm not talking about them. Not ethically speaking, but there are other issues, my friends. As we discuss the budget, let's take the budget not just from a technical point of view, but from a human perspective, try to keep our people happy and prosperous. Next to the person who works for $890, who can't even find him, who can't work, who's unemployed, just as our friends say, let's try to find a solution to the problems of our people everywhere, looking for jobs, and let's see clearly who's running our country and how he's running it. We had a very strange dilemma recently about the European Union. Mr. President, we don't have a problem getting into the European Union, so keep your mind to yourself. Five days before that, the Prime Minister, the European Union's goal continues, and it's very important to us. Europe says without Turkey, Turkey cannot be without Europe. Now, who's in charge? Who's in charge? We'll see who tells us. The Europeans will see who's saying it, and we'll have to figure it out. With these thoughts, I salute you all this Sunday morning, my friends.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0031par0193	Thank you, Mr. Korutuk. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Van MP Nazmi Gür. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0032par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all again. Earlier, the Minister spoke of the crisis of Europe, the crisis of Russia. I hope, in particular, that Russia's crisis will not affect us much in the future, because yesterday we signed an energy treaty, a gas treaty with Russia, and once again we signed another agreement that increased our dependence on Russia in a one-sided way, especially on energy. Why did we say that, why did we bring it up, dear friends? Because at the same time, Turkey has some quests to meet its energy straits and energy needs; from nuclear power plants to thermal plants, it is trying to power its need by implementing the environment, by means of a method that excludes human, human, nature, in a manner so-called wild capitalism. Of course, we know how important energy is to development, and we know that, but we can do energy by saying that it has to work with a policy that leads to these policies, not by enhancing our country, which is the future of our children, but by putting cleaner energy sources into other options. Dear friends, Turkey is planning to build two power plants, two nuclear power plants: one in Mersin Akkuyu, and the other in Sinop. But he's going to build these power plants, these nuclear power plants, using the technologies of two different countries: they're going to make one of them the Russians, we know it very well, now their preparations, their tenders, and so on. The other, you know in Sinop, will carry out a consortium of different countries, Western countries, the Japanese and French consortium. Two different nuclear energy perceptions, two different technologies, and these technologies that are actually abandoned in the world, we're going to bring them back to our country, and we're going to try to get energy from here. Nuclear power plants are valuable friends, both by technology and by extremely dangerous and extremely risky waste. If we say that most of our country is in earthquake zones, if we say that it's on fault lines, we should be able to see the risks that these technologies are going to pose for our country in the future. Dear friends, while managing nuclear power plant accidents and radioactive waste, the most important source of harmful radiation spread to this environment, it is also useful to highlight the unknownities of these technologies that we use when using these technologies to generate energy. Because to see these dangers and to take precautions for these dangers, Turkey's current legal system, the legal system, is not in the position at least to foresee an intervention in the field of such accidents. So I'd say we have a legal blindness in this matter, dear friends. Because, for example, the matter of nuclear crime and punishment is not part of our penal code, as you know. In this regard, there is no particular government work, no effort. Again, valuable friends did not include the public in the process of consulting and deciding important investment decisions, such as environmental and health-effective nuclear plants. In particular, Mersin Akkuyu and the people of the region and the environmental organisations living in Sinop have shown no consideration for their ideas, their democratic actions, the demands of the people they are democratically organizing. Of course, we need energy, no matter how we get it, because the government, especially the Ministry of Energy, has the hysteria to build a nuclear power plant. If Iran is for peaceful purposes, which, you know, Iran has a nuclear negotiation with the West. At least we have to have one. And then, God forbid, maybe we'll build our own atomic bomb. The idea of a background, such as that of Turkey, can, of course, create new political problems in its territory. Again, valuable friends, nuclear energy is a technology that affects not only the industrial sector, but all other sectors, such as agriculture, forest, tourism, health. Both Mersin and Sinop, you know, one in the north, one in the south, two very beautiful provinces, protected by their environments, their forests, and some of the provinces that we should inherit for our children in the future. We'll set up a nuclear power plant around here so we can consume these sectors around here, and we'll be done. Again, dear friends, building a nuclear power plant as a solution to global warming is like getting stuck in a swamp while escaping from the rain, especially Turkey's slow reflexes on climate change. The government and its relevant institutions are not taking very serious measures. The government has at least one approach to the consumption and management of droughts and water resources that we have, especially desertification in the future. That nuclear energy is the energy that will threaten and perhaps lead all of our resources to extinction in the future. Nuclear power plants raise our concerns. Dear friends, CED reports on this matter are certainly one of the things we need to focus on. Very arbitraryly, the CED reports are being prepared, the unscientific CED reports are being prepared, and most of these CED reports are being prepared by private institutions, some universities are preparing them. It is better to say that they are all prepared in accordance with the government's policies and according to its will. Because both environmental organizations and people living in that region have serious objections to the content of these CED reports, and some of them, you know, are on trial. Dear friends, nuclear power plants can't be insured in any country because of the risks it carries. For example, given the effects of the Chernobyl disaster that are happening today, I can tell you that there is no guarantee. It can only be declared a natural disaster or a disaster, but in an irreversible way, this country will lose a great deal of what it has. Again, dear friends, these decisions of ours -- Turkey's decision to take advantage of this nuclear energy and build a plant -- are certainly unscientific, completely politically motivated, and are all about the desire to have nuclear technology. Our criticisms are also being criticised by environmental organisations. If we give you a few small numbers, you'll understand why we're avoiding nuclear energy. After the Fukushima Nuclear Plant accident, 54 nuclear plants established in Japan have been shut down, valuable friends, and Japan has quickly changed policy on consuming different sources of energy; and after Fukushima has taken serious steps in creating different, alternative sources of energy. If Japan is one of the most advanced countries in the world, we can see its approach to shutting down nuclear power plants, considering its industry is in dire need of energy. Hakeza, many countries of the European Union, such as Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, gave up nuclear energy, activated alternative energy sources, reviewed their policies, and eventually developed a policy on implementing cleaner energy, more useful environmental energy. Here we are... no to nucleere, no to the nuclear budget! With the slogan "No!" I salute you with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0033par0212	Thank you, Mr. Gür. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0034par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 14 of the Central Management Budget Act. I'd like to present the views of the National Party for Action. I hereby salute the grand jury. The name of this article is οf walking. We know that AKP οf the 12 years it's been running well, there's nothing wrong with that. What does that say about the law? ▪ It will take effect at this time, he says. So, the date this goes in is already clear, but what's there to be? The way this works. And then there's the executive clause. In the executive article, the provisions concerning the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Presidency, the Presidency, the public administration under the general budget have already been handed down to ministers of the Finance Minister, regulatory and auditory institutions. The Minister of Finance is handling his other provisions, and that's fine. Now, when you look, really, it's a date that's already set, but it's important how the budget works. I've been asking you for three days, four days about the current budget, but I can't get an answer, Mr. Secretary. You're afraid to say how much money you've invested in the White House, how much money you've been spending on these investments with the acceleration grant, and you're afraid to tell them how much money you've been spending on the White House. You said up there that some of it was a big problem. I thought you could come in here and answer our questions very freely, very clearly, and if you don't have all of them -- at least what you've got so far is no excuse -- but I've seen that -- although you don't look at it -- you're afraid, you're under pressure, you're uncomfortable with it. We are also troubled by such pressure on the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Turkey because we are a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a deputy of the Republic of Turkey. It really bothers me. In fact, they chose the best of the AKP Group here yesterday -- because you received an honorary doctorate in the sea. When I said, there were friends who were angry with me, expressing their anger. They chose the worst of it. If I had said it, it would have been beneath you. We're trying to do something with a sense of humor, and we're okay with it. When I was scanning the Internet this morning and tonight, I came across something. I mean, I wasn't going to tell you about the pool account or anything like that today. And I told you yesterday, we're getting the idea of December 17th and 25th right now. I didn't say that to laugh or anything. This is an important event during the AKP administrations in the Republic of Turkey. I'm telling you this for the sake of this, it says: I didn't mean the nation. I don't want to express the word, it can be very eggageable, it can be made funny here, but I don't want to dwell on it. What I'm saying here is my competitors. I was here last year -- you weren't even there -- while the same materials were being discussed -- to another fellow minister instead of you -- who curses this nation. You're the minister of the Republic of Turkey, aren't you offended at all? I said, "Does he not touch you?" When you look here this year, it means what you said to your opponents, Vahap Munyar Bey. He travels with businessmen from time to time. Maybe this image correction, image regeneration, image removal, image cleansing, but even if this happens, it's a real disturbing event for the Republic of Turkey. Why has Turkey become like this? Now, we can't agree on a multinational income alone, a multinational income account per person. Is that so hard? You're saying it's up to $10,000. We say you've increased it overnight. But I congratulate you. So -- and I said maybe last year -- your General Assembly speech last year, there's one thing you're saying here: you put at least a few alternatives to how to calculate developments during the AKP era when you're giving a national income increase per person. I mean, there's no point in every person coming in here repeating the same thing, like a different broken mechanism, saying something different. What did you say: what happens to a person? I'm telling you what you said last year. Isn't that right? You said it was 2.1 times higher, according to the share of the income-to-buying power per person. You said it's three times the size of a person's head. That's right, if you calculate it like that, that's how it all comes out. I mean, but while you're bragging, that's the side of it. There's no harm in saying it. Now, since 2008, we've been looking at national income per person, so what happened, Mr. Secretary? It's starting to go backwards from 10,500, isn't it? He's skating. Well, explain this, the world conjunctive was like this. Say, "This was the way it was, this was the way it was." Say, "This is the way it was." He's just expressed his opinion on the services of our AKP MP Antwerp. I believe you've also served as an MP, Mr. Secretary. I also know about Antwerp, but exports dropped by 43 percent in November. Fear God. Tell me what's good and tell me what's bad. The people whose work was broken there, the way you applied the foreign policy in Syria, the terrors that took place there, the casualties of the explosions that happened there, they happened because of us, dear. So we're just supposed to applaud because things like this happened in our country during the AKP era? But you're making the country nervous, and I'm not saying it's you, but I'm afraid you're making the country nervous. We're going to talk about revenues in a little bit, in a precise account, etcetera. Yeah, side by side with the sheep, put up the collections with the dues. Every year you pass a bag of laws. It's not the law that dictates bag law. Does he foresee, Mr. Secretary, for God's sake? If so, I have foreseen the bag law at this time, and I have predicted for the budget of 2015. You can't predict, there's no such thing. There's a bag of laws every year. And then there was this, and we said, "What's wrong with the payment?" And then you agreed with him. You reward those who cannot pay. You say so, and what happens? Now, if you'd go abroad, tell us about it in OECD, we've developed a new method. People can't pay, but the economy's good. Even though the economy is good, when people can't pay, we -- those who can't -- we postpone every year, but we can't do anything about the taxpayers. We're thinking next semester, and we're going to get a discount on their tax rates, or we're going to get an installment. If you say, "They're smart people," do they say? For God's sake, Mr. Secretary! Your forehead's coming to prostration, tell me. Then change those odds, brother. Change them. Tell people the truth. I mean, you're here, you're the government, and you're doing the work, and we're here to evaluate what you're doing, so nobody says anything to him. Look, there's only one thing, there's a new advisor to the Prime Minister, ma'am, I swear to God, he's recently come out, and he said, "The structural measures in 2001 have made us very comfortable in the financial sector, especially today." I think there's a problem with either you or the lady's statements. I mean, don't take this the wrong way. I say thank you, pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0035par0227	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Adana MP Umit Özgişmiş on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Ozgim.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0036par0231	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. After me, the numbers flew again, and the citizens were confused: is Turkey's economy flying? Is Turkey's economy sinking? But, I just told you, the truth is that Turkey can't go on this economic model, especially with unemployment figures, especially with the unfair distribution of income. So a country with a population of 77 million can't grow, can't enrich, can't grow, and can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't grow, can't become a model of industry and agriculture. Look, Greece tried this model ten years ago, 15 years ago. Greece came out of the industry, Greece left only olives and cotton in agriculture, and it came out of other agriculture, and at some point, we are the spoiled child of Europe. In agriculture, Greeks don't work, Albanians work. He said, that's what he came up with today; his economy started selling his islands to pay off debts like bankruptcy and one stone diamond. Turkey has come to this, thanks to you. With economic policies in the AKP's ruling period, Turkey is currently selling, selling, selling, selling its land, companies, and values. The companies sold down to the small shops, down to the movie theaters, but there's a chance we'll get them back, there's hope. But Turkey also sells agricultural land, which is the oasis. The world's population is growing, and according to the United Nations' study, the world's population will be around 10 billion in 2050. The population is increasing, but with population growth, the land and farmland are not increasing. So rich Western countries and countries that don't have oil-rich soils are buying land from countries with land, countries like us, where if this trend continues like this, there might be famines, or there might be explosions of food prices at agricultural prices. It's called the Westerners, to make fun of countries like us, to make fun of them, to make fun of them. If you translate it precisely, it's deforestation, but amongst themselves, they're using slanging, stealing land from countries like us, and using law issued during AKP power, it's constantly being dished out. When I first came out here, the amount of land sold was in the records -- it was 90 million square meters, and last year, when I came out the year before, it was 137 million square meters, and today, when I looked at the numbers of questions proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, it went up to 141.5 million square meters. About 130 million square meters of this is not subject to floor ownership, so land and land. I call that a dish. Before, land could be sold to a stranger up to 25,000 square metres of land, from Law 6302 to 25,000 square meters, and you authorized the Council of Ministers to raise it to 2 times 600 thousand meters. Only last year Saudi Arabia bought 635,000 square meters of land from us. We can get these with a question proposal from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. In the past, TİK was publishing them, and now it's not. Why? Are you ashamed? If you're embarrassed, don't sell it, but if you sell it, let the citizen see the amount of land sold, publish it in TÜİK, or publish it in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. We always have to take these with questions. It's a good thing that the Minister is here because he has a statement that he makes fun of people who think like us: I didn't see him take the land out of the airport and take it out on the stranger's back. Our land is gone, our children's futures are gone. Mr. Secretary, you left your child 1,000 acres of land back home. He sells 100 acres, eats here and there. My son, don't, don't, this is our future, the land of our grandchildren. When you say, "Father, what is happening?" He's standing right there. Others do, but the land is still there. I don't want to repeat the sale of land to the economy of Turkey -- because there's a lot of talk here -- but I've just told you -- can you do anything other than contribute to the budget, like the White House, like the President's budget, like the $1 million car that you bought for the President of Religious Affairs -- in short-term time? The diesel is imported, the fertilizer is imported, and the seed is imported, thanks to you, but that's where our land is. We're selling our children's future, and it needs to be stopped. I salute you again.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0037par0237	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim. Izmir MP Rifat Sait. Here you go, Mr. Sait.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0038par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I wish the good luck of our 2015 budget for our country, for our democracy, for our nation. At the beginning of my speech, I want to thank our Finance Ministry, our Plan and Budget Commission, all our ministers and deputies and all our valued friends, who have been involved in preparing the budget. And thanks to the technoccrats and bureaucrats. We see this year's budget talks are relatively positive, but there are some negative criticisms against our government, and we've seen the same ones here today. We're actually going to talk about these things here, we're going to talk about their positives, we're going to talk about our projects, we're going to talk about our services, the opposition is going to do their reviews, and they're going to talk about their negatives. But here I want to tell you something else: from time to time, we have a conversation with our friends here in the opposition, in the garden, in the mosque, in the mess hall. We have a lot of different conversations out there, a lot of different conversations going on in there. And I asked one of them, and I said, "Why is that?" And he gave me an interesting answer, and he said, "That's what bread money is supposed to be." Of course, it's interesting, because here, at the beginning of their television, our people are taking a negative view of this, and there are a lot of different events. Now, for example, from time to time, we go out on trips. Recently, as the President of the Albanian Friendship Group, we went to both Albania and Macedonia, with whom we had dear friends from the DP and from the CHP. We chat there, and in every country we go to, we visit the TİKA, the Dolphin Emre Institute cultural centers, and they give us a briefing on both the works of the Dolphin Emre Institute and the TİKA. In those briefings, I'm watching friends in the opposition, and they're really proud of it, and as I listen to them, I ask them, how is it that you criticize them in Congress, how is it here? It's political, it's different. But we have to say that the Republic of Turkey is really doing important things, doing important services. For example, one of our friends from the opposition came in here recently, and said, "You're always going to Macedonia." He criticised, and a week later, we were on a delegation with him in Macedonia, and we went together. When Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, our Deputy Director of the Group, entered the hall yesterday, I saw our friends from the opposition get up before us, offer him their condolences, and I offer my condolences once again. These are beautiful things, we hugged them, they expressed their condolences, they made up for it. It's supposed to happen, actually, without hurting each other, by supporting each other, we need to do our services together. Again, we just met a friend of ours from the Republican People's Party here at the airport, and he did a very nice thing: he was ahead of me, he stood back, he let me out in front of the door, he said, "Here you go." I said, "Thank you." A certain amount of time later, my friend and I encountered some tension here, very nervous, raised his hand, saw me, put his hand down, maybe a little shy. Believe me, there's something else going on out there. We have to tell our friends. As we talk about all this, if you'll excuse me, I'd also like to talk about the work that the Republic of Turkey has done abroad, because there are important services. We've opened 228 foreign diplomatic missions so far, and we need to talk about a Turkey, which is now the seventh place in the world, and we're aiming to be among the top five countries in 2023. So far, we have 6,482 colleagues in our foreign diplomatic missions. TİKA has opened 35 offices in 32 countries on 5 continents. We've built 110 projects in 13 years, and we've signed up for these cooperation projects again. Also, the Yunus Emre Institute, the President of the Turkish abroad, is doing important work. The country where Turkish Airlines didn't go is almost gone. Turkey is among the first four countries in humanitarian aid. Now, our congressmen have just spoken about the distribution of national revenues. There have been significant improvements in the last 12 years, dear friends. In 2002, the difference between the richest 10 percent and the poorest 10 percent was 18.3 per cent, while the difference fell to 11.9 per cent in 2013. Now, we're looking at the Gini coefficient in Turkey as the revenue distribution in many countries after the global crisis breaks again, and we're seeing that in 2002-2013 it's down from 44 percent to 38 percent. We're looking at the Human Development Index, we're in the 80th place in 2000, and then we're looking at 2013, and it's down to 69. It's always positive stuff. Turkey is one of the three fastest developing countries in the Human Development Index. These are good things, and the opposition knows them, and Turkey knows them. Let me tell you about my own city. Let me tell you about Izmir. In the last 13 years, the Izmir (Izmir) has been invested in nearly 25 billion investments, and has been supported. Smyrna has an investment that exceeds 4 billion in transport alone, 1.6 billion in education, 1 billion in health investments, 1 billion in support. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, when we say all this, we're actually going to have the longest night of December 21st and we're going to have the longest night. Go today, sleep easy because the budget is good, Turkey is good. I respect all of you and congratulate you on your new year. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0039par0256	Thank you, Mr. Sait. Moving on to QA. I'll take five minutes to ask questions. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0040par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you again, Mr. Secretary, how much resources have you invested in the White Palace from the reserve funds and the funding for accelerating investments? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0041par0263	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0042par0265	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, look, I didn't get the full answer to my question, and I'm saying: there's a loan from $278 billion in private enterprises. Any company wants a bank to have a means to lend money to any company in Turkey, so what I'm saying is that the bank vouches for it, that the Treasury can vouch for it. I want clarity on this. Second: You know that the ATV and Sabah newspaper were received by Recep Tayyip Erdogan Bali Yıldırım, and Bazili Yıldırım went from Genghis Construction, Kolin. After that, he collected $630m from Limak. It's a tribute, it's a tribute, but did you, as Finance Minister, examine it in terms of tax law? Where is this money now? Did you get the inheritance and transfer tax on this? Again, it's 687 acres of land in Bodrum, in the Bay of Heaven to this Genghis Construction...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0043par0270	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0044par0272	Minister, one of Turkey's chronic problems is pensioners condemned to poverty, hunger. You've made it a law that the Social Security Act you passed and the fact that pensioners don't get a share of the national income increase, and from then on, pensioners don't get a cut of the national income in your administration. Do you have a study in 2015 to improve pensioners' welfare by making a change in the law? Again, do you plan on removing the social security benefit from employees' pensioners? You've had a number of statements earlier on how to give bank promotions to pensioners in exchange for the bank's salary as your government. Are you going to handle this? Will pensioners benefit from this promotion? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0043par0274	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0045par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I asked you yesterday, but I didn't get an answer. Many of our world-famous beaches -- especially the beaches of Iztuzu and Sarıgerme -- are being illegally rented to the private sector, contrary to our Constitution, and the Coastal Law. Where were these tenders made? How will our citizens benefit from these public beaches from now on? Who are the partners of the companies that rent these parts? What non-profit construction and practices will the companies that rent these places by paying high rents will perform in order to get these funds out? Again, Turkish Airlines is flying all over the world. He said our friends, but Turkish Airlines doesn't fly from Ankara to Dalaman. Will you have a study for Turkish Airlines to fly from Ankara to Dalaman? The pensioners called yesterday. From pensioners' salaries, backwards, until 2008...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0046par0281	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0047par0283	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we need some information on a matter or two. What is the ratio of short-term gross foreign debt stock to international reserves in public-private, 2002 and 2014? What is the ratio of imports to international reserves in 2002 and 2014? In addition, as of 2002 and 2014, what is the GDP rate of the total debt of the citizen?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0046par0285	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0048par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, all ministries are given an additional right and a supply of those who fail the first examination of inspectorial qualifications, but there is a right to the tax inspector's competency exam, and those who fail are fully restored to office. Do you intend to grant a second placement for those who failed the first test of the tax inspector's exam? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0049par0290	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I'll start with question one. Dear friends, transfers from the back-up grant, investments from the acceleration fund are not yet finalised, will be finalized by the end of the year.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0051par0294	Tell me what you know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0295	We'll publish it as of January 15. We'll give you all the numbers after the final account comes out.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0051par0296	Tell me as much as you know, as much as you signed.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0297	All figures are subject to the Court's audit. So we'll let you know what's necessary in that sense. Mr. Young, $5.3 billion of $278 billion in private enterprise debt only related to three projects -- I sent the details -- is guaranteed for the Treasury; these are the third bridge, the Eurasia Tunnel, and the Izmit Gulf Pass. Other than that, there is no guarantee of any Treasury.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0052par0299	Other than that, you say you don't have one.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0300	Regarding the allegations that you have brought to the other agenda, they are merely claims, so there is no study in this framework.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0052par0301	Money, money, money! The companies didn't deny it, Genghis said he gave $100 million, Kolin gave $100 million, Limak gave $100 million.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0302	Now, dear friends, I've expressed it yesterday, so really, of course, as our resources increase, we're transferring more resources to our pensioners. Look, I'll tell you this: between December 2002 and July 2014, the pension of our pensions has changed; in fact, they've taken a serious share of the illegal domestic product, and I'll tell you this to you: the growth rate has increased from $148.7 to 848 per month; the rise rate is 471 per cent in this period is 176.4 per cent. So, in real terms, it's almost doubled, and therefore, it's gotten a much larger share than the illegal domestic product.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0053par0303	Retired people live in prosperity!) In fact, they could buy themselves a Mercedes.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0305	Agriculture BUG-KUR pension has also increased from about 66 liras to $633.6 liras, and the rate of increase is 862 per cent. So here, it's increased a few times as fast as inflation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0053par0306	Did he get the President of the Religious Affairs on his pension, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0307	The SEC pension has increased from 257 liras to 1,047 liras, and the increase here is 307.4%. Again, the officer's pension has risen from $376 to 1,311, and the rate of increase is much higher than inflation, 248.4%. As for Mr. Erdogan's question, the betting area in the district of Muğla has been declared a private environmental protection area. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has all the authority, including the rental of private environmental protection sites. Therefore, there has been no lease done by our Ministry on the shores of the Muğla province. Since it's the weekend, I couldn't reach out to the Ministry and pass on your questions, but if there's any abuse there, if there's a misappropriation there, I'd be happy to pass them on to the concerned friends, do their research. Turkish Airlines doesn't fly to Dalaman, it doesn't fly, it's... of course, it's a commercial decision, it could be related to the season. There's no way for me to do any of my private work, but if there's a passenger, there's a flight. As for Mr. Vural's questions, now, the total reserves, including gold, are in the stockpile of foreign debt in 2002...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0054par0311	Short-term, sir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0312	I'll say it, I'll say it, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0054par0313	I'm just saying...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0314	Sure, sure, but you owe me...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0054par0315	The short-term one.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0316	I'll tell you the short term, I'll tell you the total debt.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0054par0317	That's what I asked, sir, I want short-term.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0055par0318	I want the sum, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0319	The total debt rate rose to 33.7 per cent from 21.7 per cent to 33.7 per cent, up by 33.2 as of 2013, as of 2014. The ratio of total reserves to short-term loans has been reduced from around 171 per cent to 102.2%. I'm also looking at data on imports, and the import rate of gross foreign currency reserves has now dropped to 45.9% in 2002, at 52 percent. As for the debt of the household, of course, in the early 2000s, because inflation was a double household in the 1990s, and because interest was raised from time to time in three households, the debt was very limited. Now, from what I can see here, as of 2014, the GDP rate is 22 percent, 2014. Friends didn't give the 2002 number here, but it's probably pretty low, but it's perfectly normal.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0056par0321	1.9%, say it, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0322	Because he didn't have any interest to borrow at the time...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0056par0323	Did he have the means to save money?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0324	...inflation is too high, interest is too high...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0057par0326	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0327	Let me answer the last question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0057par0328	Here you go. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0050par0329	That's right. In the Treasury Department, inspectors have only been given one right to qualify. I told my friends, they're doing a study on a second chance right now. As soon as we're done working on that frame, we'll inform the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0057par0331	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0058par0332	Sir, what was the total stockpile of short-term foreign debt in 2002?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit01spe0057par0333	I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, the provisions of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act have been adopted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. The open vote will be held tomorrow's merger after the final talks. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss and vote on the provisions of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act, respectively. After I have re-read the first article of the 2013 Central Management Final Account Act, I will submit it to your votes. CONGRATULATIONS ON THE LAW OF MY MANAGEMENT OF 2013 MADDE 1-1 (1) 663 is included in Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the 2013 Central Management Budget Law (A). A) (I) Turkish Lira, 396,705,004,350 to public administrations under the general budget on the ruler, B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 45,002,167,100 Turkish liras, C) (III) The Turkish Lira of 2,363,741. The grant is granted. (2) The central administration, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final statements of the expense account; A) (I) is a total of 397,275,131,828,49 Turkish Lira, which is part of the general budget for public administrations in 2013. B) (III) Special budgetary administrations total the budget costs in 2013 57,090,735,703,98 Turkish liras, C) (III) is a total of 2,430,916,918,27 Turkish liras, totaling the budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions in the ruler of 2013. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management console budget costs totalling 408,224,559,856,04 Turkish Lira. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler previously accepted: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm gonna take an hour off, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0057par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 2- (1) Added to Law 5018, as shown in the 2013 Central Management Budget Law (B) marked by the 2013 Central Budget Law; A) (I) The income of public administrations under the general budget is 362.960.518,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations' income is 6,617.837.200 Turkish Lira, a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras, including 38,766,047,450 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 45,383,884.650 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras, totaling 2.3,741.000 Turkish liras, including 2.342,150,000 Turkish liras, 21.591.000 Turkish Lira Treasury benefits, and a total of 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Central administration is added to Law No. 5018, as shown in the final income sheets; A) (I) is a total of 377,342.2,211.000,76 Turkish liras in the general budget of public administrations in 2013. B) (II) The net budget revenues of private budgetary administrations in 2013 are 11.497,846,520.02 Turkish Lira, 47,098,907,478,15 Turkish Lira Treasury Aid totalling 58,596,753,998,17 Turkish liras. C) (III) A total of 2,678,061,379,63 Turkish liras, a total of 2,678,061,379,63 Turkish liras, with net budget revenues of 2.673,061,379. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management console of 2013 combined budget revenues with 389,681,984,770,79 Turkish Lira. First on behalf of their group is Şanlıurfa MP Ibrahim Binici on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0059par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 2nd Article of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Valuable lawmakers are documents that regulate interclass relations, allow social needs to be met, and therefore affect social welfare, which in other ways determine public relations with the state, as well as the number piles and accounting tables, but are essentially written down between whom and who are the values created by the social work department and how to divide them. As they say, a man's ritual is a work of speech. Here, from this window, budgets are a mirror reflected by real intentions and real faces rather than by the words of his makers. Dear lawmakers, the 2015 budget, where we come to the end of their talks, will be the 13th budget the AKP's government has made uninterrupted. Don't look at these ceremonies that happen every year in December, where we're going to faint from listening to these rhetorical texts, which have been handed to their hands, and they're going to hold this eulogy. Don't worry, don't delay, throw away the bodies of the power-drunk for once. Go out into the street, look, look at the shopkeeper who's barely made it to the end of the month, who's closing a shut-down. If he doesn't die and survives, look at the worker who wants to take a bite to his house. You really think you can get rid of the blood on your hands by giving you a martyr's share? Look at the workers you aided and abetted in their murders and over tens of thousands of them. Look at the peasant who worked hard and didn't pay for the product, the farmer who saw the price of his own product at the supermarket and swallowed his little tongue. Look at the poor man watching a bag of coal, a bag of pasta, and the freak in a hurry to pull alimony out of the garbage in the middle of the night. Come on, don't be lazy, take a look at the streets. Take a good look at the torn rubber shoes on the feet of Recep Gökçe, who killed his son in the coal mines of Ermenek. Those shoes are the symbol of cleaning, those shoes are the purity, those shoes are the honesty and the helaline. You know, those shoes were never boxed. You know, those famous boxes of yours, you know, they never had one of those boxes. In fact, Recep Gökçe did not have a bedroom. Recep Gökçe didn't have any money counting machines or cash registers in the spare bedroom. Come on, guys, come on, ladies, don't be lazy, get out on the street. Look at all the lives you've enslaved to the subcontractor system, millions unsecured, falling like leaves from the tops of the constructions of residences and malls. Look at the teachers who chose suicide one by one because they couldn't identify it, the miners who sacrificed a lifetime in the pits of death for a handful of coal. See those who say: "The only way is death because of the credit card he cannot pay for." There isn't! You can't go out on these streets because there's looting, looting, looting. There are dollar billionaires you're proud to increase your number on the streets you're on. You have children who are gold, who count money even in their bedrooms, whose millions we can't even dream about, whose millions of euros are less than we can imagine, who suddenly cancel out one night, who are venture geniuses. You have allies who call them "privatisations" that you have drawn a few of the centuries-old factories and institutions that the people of Turkey have built with their teeth and nails. On the streets where you walk, you have friends who are waiting for me, who are like children stuck to your skirts. You've got pools where you can fill them with money that your allies have poured out for the sake of the debt of their loved ones. Where do you get to live for free, without saying mountain, without saying hill, without saying creek? There is Istanbul where you plundered with the AVMs and the residences you planted, and then you shed crocodile tears. There are palaces in the streets where you walk. That's your budget, that's your mirror. We've grown accustomed to your lies and lies, and you don't surprise us. With the ambition of power that surrounds your eyes, "All means are fair to the cause." he says. You don't know any morals, you don't know any law, you don't know any religion, you don't know any books. By God, you are like the prince whom Machiavelli gave counsel. When you have money, you don't compare the minimum wage in your country to the one in Germany, you ask how much he was paid. You also say that the loss of this knowledge is far greater than the loss of a nation, which is very powerful in science, if it is the bankruptcy of a very great rich man, with great opportunities in the 5th Church of Religion, which you have joined. With this understanding that compares the pain of lost knowledge to the suffering of a corrupt merchant, you're a joke. In general, in the Middle East, and in private, you're like a demon who has been reinvented in the 21st century by all the dirty work you've had with gangs in Syria. You're like a lying shepherd who's had a few objections, who doesn't like what you do, who doesn't think what you do, and who's already gone out with a label on every social opposition. You are like Pinocchio, whose nose is forgotten with your endless plans, in the GAP, in the DAP, and in the DOKAP. You're like the sword that's hanging over us, who thinks he's going to gas up the students who want free education, with the prison, with the baton of the officer who's looking for his rights, and the worker who wants assurance. In Roboski, you are like my new class, and in Gezi, you are like Kerbala. You're like the hangman who's already been masked. Even if all our wealth is a slice of bread, I salute you all again with the desire to make the budgets that we share one slice of bread as brothers, equal and friendly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0060par0037	Thank you, Mr. Binci.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0061par0038	Aren't you going to answer me?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0062par0039	Oh, no!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0063par0040	Okay. What more can I say?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0061par0041	You have no religion, no books!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0062par0042	Oh, no!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0061par0043	If you don't answer that, you don't have the right to ask for more taunts!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0064par0044	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0065par0046	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2nd amendment of the current bill. I salute you all with love and respect. Honourable lawmakers are the most important policy tool budget in the state administration; they are tasked with making changes in budgets, incomes and costs, allowing citizens to live more happily, to live more well, to live in peace. However, where we come from, it's the livelihood of Balıkesir Province, which is my science in the budget that we're studying, respected lawmakers, animalism, tourism, oliveism. There are problems on the subject -- and there is also a need to make a statement -- to examine the problems of animalism and its solution proposals on a separate substance. However, tourists are also very troubled. There are many differences between our summer population rates and winter population rates in coastal municipalities, tourism districts. Burhaniye district has a population of 40 in winter, population of 150-200 in summer. Again, yes, Edremit is, Erdek is. In fact, Marmaris, Bodrum, other cities, and counties have been experiencing these problems as well. In this regard, an arrangement must be made with the average of winter and summer populations, or the number of households, the number of homes, housing, and a change in the law, in which these coastal municipalities, tourism-based municipalities, have received a share from the state, staffs and provinces. The olive man has a lot of trouble with olives. I'm an olive maker myself. Every time I'm on the stand, I don't stop saying what's wrong with the olive man, I won't give up. The costs are very high. We say, "How do you get VAT exemptions in diamonds and pearls; you know, you all get VATs, you don't get VATs, you don't get diamonds and pearls." Again, the diesel for fishing boats and commercial cargo and passenger transport is also exempt from the OTV. We have a demand that the farmers, the olives, don't get a TV from the diesel they use in their tractor, get an exemption. We haven't seen any improvements in the budget. Again, we see no improvement in government support for olive oil, no improvement in government support for one olive. The AKP's power took a vote of confidence from the people and took power, promising to fight the 3Y (i.e., the AKP) as it came to power. What was that 3Y? ▪ I will fight corruption. Now, on December 17th-25th, during the week of the fight against corruption and bribery, our friends at every time spoke of corruption. In 2013, there were 21 million 933,000 poor people in Turkey. One third of our population is poor, 15 per cent of the population is at risk of poverty, 13 per cent of those under constant risk of poverty in 2013. Again, the rate of financial deprivation is 49.7 per cent in 2013. That's a very important ratio. Half of our people, indeed, lawmakers, are in serious financial trouble. While the AKP was building its illegal palace, citizens -- we have seen it yesterday -- with a demonstration of legal rights that the Constitution has granted them -- were subjected to baton, gas, violence, and they were injured. The popular treatment of the citizen is gas, violence, and baton. Another matter is hunger and deprivation, and the olive groves of olives are cut off. Minister Faruk Çelik said it was a large sum of money. Honourable lawmakers, the presidential budget is a month's salary of 445,567 minimum wage, and 37,131 minimum wage is a year's salary. If the minimum wage is this big, why is the president's budget so high? And we see that this has never been expressed by the Minister. Again, the money spent on the construction of the illegal palace remains uncertain. Mr. Minister Simsek says 1 billion 370 million, but if we explain it, the economy will be damaged. He says it's still worth $5 billion by some organizations. Again, a month's electricity bill, according to newspapers and statements, is also a number that blows away, worth $700 billion. Honourable MPs, the Çankaya Mansion was enough for 11 presidents, but not for Erdogan. If the illegal palace had risen to what Mr. Simsek said, it would have given us at least eight schools, 700 schools in each province. Again, does Mr. Erdogan know the status of the citizen's home, who considers the palaces worthy of him? Again, close to 40 percent of the population cannot repair its leaky roof and damp walls, its buildings. Again, 78.5% were unable to take a week off from home. Again, 49 per cent cannot afford unexpected expenses. 75.5% of them are unable to renew their worn-out and worn-out furniture. These numbers are very painful, but that means we don't solve poverty, we make poverty permanent, with a budget that is automatically approved here every year. You have to underline that for once. That's why we say that the AKP government's budget is not a solution to the inequality of income, it's not a source of prosperity, it's certainly not a solution to poverty. Dear lawmakers, a year ago, Turkey ranked 53, while today, unfortunately, it ranked 64, the third in the corruption perception index. Again, we see that the International Corruption Perception Index ranked 81st among 145 countries during the AKP government period in 2004. Again, we see that in this period, corruption has also been broken. We see that corruption can't be fixed, and poverty can't be fixed. What would he go for? He said, "I'm going to break the bans, I'm going to solve them, I'm going to fight the bans. But I think it's good for us to remember, I just want to talk to you again about what bans they're doing with the headgears, what they're doing. Honourable lawmakers are forbidden by Twitter's head -- I count the bannings of the AKP's -- no Internet use, no normal birth, no alcohol, no literature, banning literature, no sculptures, no classrooms, banning celebrations in Republic Bayrams and May 19th ceremonies, no wreaths at the ceremony, no mention of Ataturk. There is also a ban on the students to apply for free education; there is also a ban on journalists to write in opposition, of course, on television channels; no action against HES and nuclears, no bannings on bathings, no advertising, no access to the Prime Minister's office, no curfew on November 10th; there is also a ban on entering the premises; there is also a ban on the streets of the streets. The AKP, in its prohibitions, indeed, respected lawmakers, live in the era of mastery, as they say, we live in the age of mastery, but from what we've seen, they have a mastery period of prohibitions. In short, everything is forbidden to the AKP except for flattery. Again, I would like to mention some of the AKP's bans on publication: PKK's Dağlıca and Actütun raids; there is a ban on publishing in football; there is a ban on cheating cases; there is a ban on copying scandal in KPS. There is a ban on public broadcasting against the Travel Park resistance; the Reyhanlı attack on bribery and corruption operation on December 17th; the ban on Reza Zarraf and Ebru Günesh; the gag order for the MIT Act -- there is also a ban on broadcasting of MIT trucks seized in Adana; there is a ban on listening ban on hearings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; there is a ban on the loss of 301 miners; there is a ban on the broadcast of the Soma disaster; there is a ban on the ban on the ban on the ban on the ban on the corruption of the journalists of the Ottoman Empire. Dear lawmakers, the year 2014 of the OECD... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you. I wish all of us good luck and good luck with the budget, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0066par0067	Thank you, Mr. Akova. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan. On behalf of your person, you have a request to be joined, at your request. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0067par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, I have been promised Article 3 of the 2013 Final Accounts Act, and I salute the High Council. Now, the exact bill of accounting must be checked to see how revenue projections are holding up, but at least it needs to be discussed. But in Turkey's income policy, especially in the budget, there is a very bad situation. Why am I saying this? It is impossible to say that there is a fair taxation in an environment where indirect taxes rise to 70 per cent. First of all, the tax load goes up. In 2002, it rose from 22 per cent, including social security, to 28 per cent in 2014. When you look outside social security, it goes from 17.6 per cent to 20.5 per cent in the same period. Indirect taxes also drop from 35 per cent to 29.5 per cent. Indirect taxes also rise above 70 per cent of 65 per cent. It's not once possible to say that such a development is really fair in terms of taxation. Tax base doesn't expand, tax rates don't drop, pay-per-view doesn't pay, tax policy doesn't have a social purpose. Not the ones with high tax flexibility. When you look at the oil, I already got it from Mr. Undersecretary, thank God -- wherever you compare it with 2002, it goes up to $2.82, when you tax $1.14 from 94-octane gasoline. There's no point in saying it like that, the odds were down, the odds were up, there's no point in saying it. How much? From $1.14 to $2.82. It's tax. If you cut that down, the price of the engine would have gone down earlier. What else is in here? When you look at his engine, 76 cents is taxed in 2002, now $2.18. So if you had left this $2.18 in 76, what would this citizen have been doing for how many years? He'd be resigning. Now, what happens in indirect taxes? It's more towards the indirect taxes. You're often changing legislation. The taxpayer can't predict these taxes, they tend to invest. You're taking advantage of the non-payer. The situation is vague and complicated. There's no activity on the inspection. On the other hand, there's a problem with unregistered taxation, which is a problem. Exclusion in taxation, exclusion makes justice difficult, harmonisation in taxation, no tax justice. The best of all -- I just told you -- is being punished. The employees are desperate. The tax on unregistered and smuggling is in the square. Although we've asked for three or four days, perhaps several times, we've been greatly offended by the fact that a Finance Minister doesn't know how much resources are being invested without speeding up investments. I don't want to think he doesn't know, he knows, and if he doesn't, it's a shame. But we don't know, we'll give it to us in the final account. We'll give it to him when he comes out. He doesn't have to say anything. I'm having trouble with that. It'll be a problem if I explain. I can't give it to you for that. It was simple enough to say. When he says, "Give me what you have." If he can't give it to the bureaucrats behind him, believe me, what does a Finance Minister do after he makes himself laugh at the bureaucrats behind him? I'm not saying they're laughing. They know perfectly well that the Minister can know about this. Now I couldn't put it together. I couldn't get it out of the Ministry of Development. On Friday, we asked a minister to call a minister... and if I call him now, I think I can tell him from there... what is this source? Why is he running away from this? Why is he afraid of that? The fear of a Finance Minister is a very difficult, violent business for a country to face. What do I want to do with this in particular? I want to express it. Now -- and I mentioned that in my last speech -- you're giving opportunities to those who can't pay their taxes. You'll be recognized. That means the economy is not good, the nation can't pay its taxes; it's clear. And yet, you have given this opportunity, and what about those who pay? We've asked him many times on the commissions. Well, now you're trying to give the taxpayers an opportunity. What are you trying to do? It's either a proportional discount or an instalment, etcetera. I just told the Minister himself. What if you went to an economic institution abroad? We can't collect taxes, there's a problem here. So each time, we provide an opportunity that can't pay. They can't pay every year, they go, but we're trying to give the people on the other side a separate opportunity after all these years. If you say, "They don't really take good care of him abroad, they really don't take good care of him. My economy is good." Now, this is a real pain in the ass. When you have already looked at the central management budget, its features will continue with determination to fight inflation. Whose duty is the fight against inflation, the price stability that you continue with your determination? The Federal Reserve. So, what does the Federal Reserve say? Your policies, fiscal policies, if they're right, I'll rein in that inflation. That's what they're explaining. They're looking at the IRS, they're looking at it, that's their statement; they're making sense, there's no anomaly there. Now we're going to reduce the deficit of transactions. You're saying that. Drop it. You also reduce growth from nine to three. You reduce growth from nine to three. And you're not so far away from it that you don't know what it's like to have an impact on the intrinsics. You know, but you feel compelled to write here, you have no choice. Now, you might think there's going to be some advantages from oil and so on, but these conjunctural comings and goings, there's nothing sustainable, there's nothing permanent about them. Anyway, if you're counting on him this year, he's not in the budget right now, he's not in the budget, he's not in the budget; you're in trouble, don't say that. Applying the policies needed to improve growth to its potential level. Thus, growth is not at its potential level, but it is evident from your expression. The purpose of privatisation is to increase efficiency or something, but it's not that you have a purpose in privatisation or anything like that. Let the money come out of our hands, and then we'll get some kind of funding for the side that buys it from somewhere. It's like the Tigris Electricity thing. I mean, pretty much, like -- what can I say -- things that aren't serious. And to raise the level of savings for this investment. You've disgraced it, it's fallen from 24 per cent to 12 per cent, it's fallen to 9 per cent of the national income. Now, when you put it that way... I told the Minister. When I first said that, he was being sarcastically applauded there, and I'll never forget it. The situation he's in today is extremely bad, very troubled. There's no way we can raise those savings on such short notice. You're struggling, it's not increasing, when you say come on. For one thing, you like this expression very much -- despite the macroihythmal measures, there's no improvement here, so there's no decent recovery. It's a funny thing. It is not because of you that the uncertainty that exists in the world's economy has a minimum effect on our country. Putin's coming, I'll do you a favor. He says, he's different, you're looking there; the other one's coming... that's not going to happen in the free market regime. I gave you the numbers yesterday, the day before. When you look at the results of the last budget numbers, it's the opposite, it's the opposite of last year. Now, other than that, to meet budget spending with sound revenue resources and to consider the balance of resource-sharing. That's right. Now, when you look at this privatisation, you've collected, you've spent all these years; it's obvious what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on last year. It's not one thing to tell each and every one of them. I just told you, you're having trouble telling the community what you've got for the White Palace. I congratulated the Minister of Finance in the first place, he explained in the budget, but they had him brake so hard here, he won't open his mouth, he says. He says, "There's going to be an account." The people who know about this here and the bureaucrats in the back are probably laughing, so we know what that's gonna be. Now, he goes on to say: "To strengthen accountability and financial transparency. " Come on, here, let's build it up. Let's see, what went out of the back-up fund without speeding up these investments, what's the financial transparency like? They grow, they go. But here's the thing, look: information on the budget sizes of local governments and social security institutions, return capitals and non-budget funds and non-budget institutions, in order to improve transparency under the budget, to be better informed of the budget practices of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I told the Minister of Social Security that he doesn't accept any budget transfers or anything. Otherwise, the social security system... where does it go from there? That's where he's going. If you look at the Ministry of Development's report -- the former DPT (former DPT) -- it's open to 80 billion euros. He's got nothing to defend. What is it, really? It's a problem. On the other hand, you're looking at the energy SOCs that have already been restored. I mean, the government's trying to take some precautions to get rid of all the money and stuff. There's a problem there, too. Other than that, there's trouble in finance. Why? You tell the Central Bank to lower the interest. You say increase the interest. You say increase the credit. But look at it from the other side. You say, "Slow down." What's he gonna do, it's gonna cost us a lot of resources. There's something terrible about unfair competition between the public bank and the others, there's a problem with keeping up with technology, there's uncertainty about foreign capital entry, described as a hot money intake. You don't know when it's going in, you're glad it's coming in, and when it's gone, it's... Now, the Turkish banking system has become dependent on foreign funding in foreign currency. And that's a very dangerous thing when you look at it. Banks cannot participate in the project as a partner in crediting projects, and loan pricing cannot be done because of sectoral costs. There's a lot of trouble going on there, too. When you look at the government's 2023 targets -- it's in the government programme -- it's said that a multinational income will reach 2 trillion dollars -- of course -- will reach $25,000 per person. But you made Mr. Prime Minister tell us their 2017 targets. When you look at their 2017 target, you say something very troubling happened there. It's best to repeat it for the record. That's $1.3 trillion. That's what you said in 2018, 2017. That's $970 billion. About 35 percent between the two... if you divide them right now, they'll find friends. I guess you can't explain that anywhere in the world. And you made the Prime Minister say it on the way to the G20 meeting. What would the Prime Minister do if someone actually asked? He'd be in a very difficult position. Now, you're saying that we're going to do all this, but... when are you going to do it? This Midterm Program is already ruined in your hands. You took them out, you changed their dates, they didn't fit in again, their dates didn't match with the middle-term financial plan. You've published it all on the same day, along with a budget call. It's really funny. Mr. Babacan is trying to explain this, but there's nothing to explain. Such a disgrace is not to be explained. He said, "The European Union will take advantage of us, take advantage of us, OECD will take advantage of us." What does a country that has $30, 40 grand per person need for your program, and you make a fool of yourself? He forced me to meet him on the way up to July; it's probably been six or seven years, and it still looks like it. It's a disgrace. How do we congratulate you, appreciate what you've done, and there's nothing to be afraid of? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, Mr. Secretary still hasn't answered my questions, I call him a cowardly Minister of Finance. Thank you very much, Mr. President, and I give my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0068par0105	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0069par0106	They'll get your name out of the report, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0067par0107	Let the Minister come, let him answer, it's none of your business.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0068par0108	Scholar Canan Candemir Çelik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0070par0111	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself over the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill talks. I salute you and our nation. First of all, I'd like to point out that the public investments that have been directed by our governments in the period from 2002 to today are around 15 billion Turkish dollars. The figure was easily raised to over 20 billion Turkish liras with indirect contributions. So these enormous public investments have led to a tremendous growth and development in our city by folding the city's economic indicators to 3, 5, 10, and 10. Dear lawmakers, with the support of various investors, we've increased the foreign trade volumes of Burma fourfold. With public investments, Bursa is on the road to becoming a world brand that produces and markets what he produces to the world. Above all, the scholarship contributed $1.4 billion to the national budget in 2002, while in 2013 it increased by five times as much as $6 billion. As it turns out, every public investment from the national budget to our city can return to our national budget five times as much. Honourable lawmakers, we have signed first in the field of education with the goal of raising a spiritually and physically well - grown generation. In the last 12 years, we have invested nearly 1.2 billion Turkish liras in education. With our health policies that care more about human life than anything else, we provide health care for cities, new hospitals. In this sense, we invested about 574 million Turkish liras in the health of our citizens from 2002 to 2013. With these unprecedented investments, the number of hospitals has increased. In 2010, we started home health care in order to reduce hospital stays and home care for bedridden patients who are not required in hospital care and rehabilitation. We've reconstructed every land route in our city. We have reached 1,179 kilometers of the land network of Bursa. We extended the state roads linking the heart of Turkey's townships to 494 km; the districts, towns and villages to the centre of the city to 611km. Thus, we made it faster and safer to have access to Bursa. We have invested 873 million Turkish liras under the family and social policies. In order to provide effective, efficient and faster service, we have united all of our institutions and services in the field of social aid and service under one roof within the Ministry. Under the ministry's roof, we conduct studies involving women, children, relatives of the poor, martyrs, veterans, elderly people and disabled in a whole-scale way. For the family warmth of all our children, we chose a family-care model rather than a foster home. We've arranged for the children who have gone away from home to return to their families. In addition, to be a Turkey that pays the loyalty to our sons who gave their lives for their country, we have increased the right to employment granted to fallen relatives and veterans from one to two, and we have expanded the content of the right to use it. As a result, in 12 years, we have achieved and continue to achieve what seems to be a dream for others in our time of power. In this context, I would like to once again point out to our province that every penny that has been withdrawn from the national budget will contribute greatly to the development and development of our country. I hereby greet all our fellow MPs, my beloved nation, and the beautiful people of my beautiful Bursa, with the best of heart, and I wish that the budget of 2013, our country, our nation, should be blessed and fruitful.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0071par0120	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Before we go to the QA, Mr. Metiner has a brief request for a word, I'll give him my word for it for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0072par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, at the General Assembly yesterday, our friend Tanju Ozcan of the Republican People's Party brought a review of something I didn't say. I've requested a correction to get it into the transcripts. I didn't say that the money was put into the Director General's house by the police; I said that the shoe boxes were a metaphor; that they were used within the scope of a perception operation. These two are very different.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0073par0128	What's the difference?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0072par0129	The owners of the money are obvious. An important part is taken, others will be taken. So, I suggest that our Tanju Ozcan friend listens more carefully when he listens again. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0074par0131	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. Moving on to QA. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0075par0138	Mr. President, he knows that the money was put there, and he also knows that it would be taken, so he's writing the script himself. Soon, he'll answer again -- he's got the right to answer. I wonder how you're gonna describe these coins, wristwatches, cash registers. The teachers they waited in line to kiss their hand today became their enemies, but they have to go here and fix them, and I don't understand. Of course, by the way, my question is gone. Now, Mr. Secretary, during your twelve years of power, there have been times when fuel prices, oil prices, were constantly on the ceiling, and there have been times when they fell. Quick question. What was the price of oil products at the top of the ceiling in the period of the ceiling, and what are your oil sales prices now when it's bottoming out; what's the price difference between that ceiling and the bottom? What's the difference between the price of oil products, the price of gas, the base price of gasoline, and the minimum price of gas?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0076par0141	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0077par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. A lot of lies are being served to wear out Ismet Inönul, one of the most important people in winning our Salvation War. These lies of the Republic-hating factions are now an urban myth. He shut down the mosque for the inn, and destroyed it. It is said that now your power is washing the mosque for the AVM. I have a question: Did you know that the Central Mosque of Çankaya was funded by the Inönu family? Is there a plan for the destruction of the Central Mosque in Chankaya, which the Innu family has provided? Because the Innu built the mosque with its own savings, the Innu built the mosque with its own personal money, but he didn't explain it so he wouldn't use it for religious politics. Now, this Chankaya Central Mosque, which has emerged with its architectural identity, wants to be destroyed because it's small. Who knows who's going to get the routing door, what's going to be done? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0078par0147	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0079par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, first of all, let me say that we don't do our criticism maliciously, we do it to correct some wrongs, wrong practices. Thus, the issue of supplementary grants since 1940, the fact that subsidies and over-fund spending are so abnormal, that they are not done even when the additional budget is required, is not grounds for all of this. We need to fix this somehow, and you know very well that this needs to be fixed, and that's the only reason we're doing it. Now I'd like to ask you about the damage to the mission on page 263 of this exact Finance Ministry account. What are the losses of 2 billion 800 and 4.6 billion, totaling 7 or more billion? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0080par0153	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0081par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. When studied in history, they will see that Mehmet Simsek is the biggest contributor to corruption in Turkey. Now I'm asking -- just now -- that the ATV and the Sabah newspaper on this Çukım have collected $630 million under the instructions of Binali Yıldırım, Tayyip Erdoğan to change its ownership. What I'm saying is, look it up through tax law. He says there's no evidence. I'm reporting something like this. Check it out. Are you going to impose this on the inheritance tax, this tribute, or are you going to confiscate it? Make him something. Second, they gave the most valuable land of 687 acres of the state to the owners of Mehmet Genghis and Rixos for 150 million dollars, and then they went after him to the Agriculture Bank for $180 million. Now, why would the government pay such a cheap price for a land worth at least $1 billion? He's getting a loan from the government's Agriculture Bank. There's so much more to say, in order.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0082par0160	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Captain...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0083par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions, please answer these questions. First: Will you increase the salary of our 10 million 700,000 retired citizens by 50% and improve the living conditions? My second question is: The last province of our provinces in the socioeconomic development ranked 81. In the last 12 years, the level of socioeconomic development of Mush was not advanced, but has gone further back. Why don't you take the services of the villages of Mush Province and its districts to the corrupt, asphalt-free, electricity-free, school-free villages? Is there a village that can't be reached now? That's what I want to ask you. I'm an Antalya MP, but according to the Constitution, we're MPs all over Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0084par0168	Thank you, Mr. Captain. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with the last question. Of course, we are pleased to hear that Mr. Capitan is interested in the problems of Mush. In fact, I am the one who performs the services of our time related to Mush. I don't know if there's a village right now where snow or something is hard to access. But if they request all that information from the governor's office and send it to me on Monday, I'll share it with him. But we have East Anatolian Development Project, Mush is at its center. We've invested a lot in both the east and the southeast and the west, regardless of the infrastructure or the training point. And we'll do what we have to do with them. Look, I've come up with a number that's been distributed to geographical areas of the grant that was earmarked only in 2005-2014 as part of the SOCS project. We have 14 provinces here in the Eastern Anatolian region. So 2 billion 25 million 59,460 liras; 22.3 per cent of the money sent to all Turkey -- the second most paid region in Turkey. Area one, Black Sea, 2 billion, 636 million, 62, 29.1 percent. Second place is East Anatolia, 22.3 percent. Thus, within the scope of CEYDES, the issues you refer to include CEDES.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0086par0174	I don't ask about East Asia Minor, I ask about Mush.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0175	Since Mish is in East Anatolia, he probably got more than enough, but I'll get the figures out of Mush. Now, it was asked, "Will you increase our pensioners' salaries by 50 percent? As opportunities grow in our country, we will increase the pensions of our pensioners. Not 50 percent, but between 250 per cent and 800 per cent of their salary, in the previous session, I gave them the numbers on our pensions in the QA. Mr. Young, Turkey is a state of law.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0087par0178	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0179	If there's been a mistake, the prosecutors will investigate, we'll do what's necessary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0087par0180	Why don't you look into it? Why don't you look into it as an IRS?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0181	I don't study gossip, I don't study gossip. And I'll tell you, no one's ever been given land.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0087par0183	Didn't they give it to you in the basement?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0184	All sales in Turkey are tendered, clear, transparent, open to everyone.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0087par0185	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0085par0186	Why don't you join us? Therefore, there is no hesitation in that matter at all. Mr. Kusoglu, I find your criticism very valuable, and I have benefited greatly from the Plan Budget Commission, and I sincerely say so. So, I don't see a problem with your criticism at all. Thank you. It's constructive, so I appreciate the guidance, too. Now, but this whole complementary grant thing is a time-to-time event since the budget actually existed, so it's not the first time it's happened in this period. Now, as for your question, if your friends can remove it, they'll give you a transcript of this pen that says "Mission damage," and I'll be happy to share it with you during the next question-answer session. I don't know anything about the mosque that Mr. Inönul was building, and God bless the mosque, we thank you, but I don't know anything about wanting to be destroyed. I'm sure if you ask anyone there, they'll answer. As for fuel, dear friends, fuel is a product that we import oil. This means that the price of it is set by the currency, not just by oil, not by price, but by importing oil in dollars. Kur, for example, for example, in 2008, let's say it's 1 and a half, now it's two and a half, so we have to consider it. But I remember very clearly that I can give you this number, and I'll share the other details with you, but it's limited in terms of time: in 2002, the tax load at 95 arrows was over 70 percent, and now, even though you say it's very high, there's still no increase in tax loads at around 64 percent. On the contrary, in fact, the price of nominal oil is greater than the price of oil per barrel in dollars. Which would indicate that, but I'm going to dig up all the numbers in detail and send them to you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0088par0191	It's going to close open. It's going to refute your dissertation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0089par0192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0090par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0089par0194	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0090par0195	When Ibrahim Binici of the HDP Group was speaking earlier, when you had money, you were like executioners. He used expressions like that for our group. I demand a say in the matter of bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0091par0196	It's been an hour.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0090par0197	The paperwork's just arrived.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0092par0198	Because of the statute of limitations...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0091par0199	If I hadn't warned you, you wouldn't have answered.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0093par0200	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0204	Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0091par0205	You're partners, Hajji!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0206	...we have a tradition that tries to throw roses at a stone thrower. That's what we're doing here.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0095par0207	You killed a child, he's a child!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0096par0208	You changed that tradition, you're throwing dollars.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0209	The thorns of the rose we throw from time to time may be sinking, but we're trying to throw a rose.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0096par0211	That tradition has changed.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0212	Second, power acts. The work of power speaks, the opposition in all parts of the world and in our country only speaks, but I suppose to add to his speech an activity...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0097par0213	Opposition only speaks in democracies.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0214	...sometimes they sharpen words and make language games to make them more painful. Of course, there's a lot to be said if we're competing on how to make language games, but let's not get into that competition. It's also an act to raise this budget. We're trying to raise the budget safely. That's why we have nine chokes in our throats. People see what's being done, they see what's being said. Mr. Ibrahim is a kind man, an elegant man, but he came here with a very vivid text. Although he did speak against our group, but since he didn't take his head off the text, we might say he also spoke against the text in a way. When you have money, he says, "I'll make a pun." I wonder if he remembers the word with the word "money." I can tell you that if it's a word game. Of course, that would be painful.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0098par0216	That's none of your business!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0217	Secondly, this executioner Mellat... I mean, if we start talking about these words, there's so much that everyone here has so much to say that it's better not to remind us of them and to walk through a process of solution to the country. It is my belief that Mr. Ibrahim has just come from Kobani, so we have learned.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0099par0218	Three months, four months...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0094par0219	He didn't get a chance to read this text on the way in. I'm sure that if he had read the text once, he wouldn't have come here and pronounced at least some words, because I don't think that Ibrahim Bey was very familiar with his personal style. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0100par0222	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. Now I'm going to read the general sums of the ruler B and put them to your votes. (B) C E T V E L [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 393,920,654,000,00 Collection 419,653,761,555,03 Ret and Returns (-) 42,311,550,554,27 Net Collection 377,342.2,211.00,76 All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article (B) to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The second article (B) is adopted along with its marked ruler. Now, I'm going to read the third article: MADDE 3- (1) Adds to Article 5018 between budget costs in 2013 and budget revenues in total; A) (I) is more than 19,932,920,827,73 Turkish Lira budgets for public administrations under the general budget, B) (1,506,018,294,19 Turkish Lira budgetary income surplus, C) (III) is a budgetary surplus of regulatory and auditory institutions 247,144.461.36 Turkish liras, It's done. (2) The central administrative console of 2013 is a budgetary surplus of 18,542,575,085,25 Turkish Lira. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0101par0249	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the 2013 Final Bill of Accounts. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, if the tax revenues of a budget are almost 70 per cent indirect tax revenues, if 12 billion in the budget are privatisation revenues, if there is a budget where there is hope of administrative fines and traffic fines, if there is not enough contribution to investment, production in a budget, if there is no account, what balance are we going to talk about if there are 280 truck trees being imported from one side of the Ataturk Forest Farm? E, imbalance is also a balance. If you call it that, we don't know that. There are grave and unrecognizable allegations. Here, the MPs express their allegations of corruption, saying that these are allegations. Well, that's a lot to take in, not a lot to take in. It is alleged that a pool for 630 million Turkish lira media has been formed, and a release has been released.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0102par0253	Dollars, dollars.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0101par0254	Dollars... you can't pass them off as claims. What did you do as Minister of Finance? You have your duty. What have you done as a government?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0102par0255	They did, they made a law so they could correct the accounting accounts.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0101par0256	You have to answer for these. Now, certainly, in the public and in us, these allegations of corruption are real; they have turned into a mob.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0102par0257	And they took $200 million as a loan from the Agriculture Bank, so they didn't get the money, so they made a phone call.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0101par0258	Yeah. Now, can a power that can't account for, that runs away from accountability be a certain account of health? Questions about supplementary grants are asked, they can't get answers; information on investment acceleration funds is asked, no answers can be received. If these questions cannot be answered, how will this exact account be seen, or how will transparency, transparency be provided? It's not a question of accountability, it's a question of transparency, we want information. So, in balance, both sides of the government didn't come together, they fell apart, and the government slipped yesterday, just as we did yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we call it Court inspection. On the first day of the budget's meeting -- I remember very well -- our dear commissioner, Mr. Bilic -- said that the opposition is saying the wrong things, sir, the Court is not conducting inspections. The opposition doesn't control the number. It doesn't say. The Court's audit reports are not brought to Parliament, and the Court's ability to conduct inspections is restricted, that's what we say. What we say is true, what the ruling people say is wrong. Here is the charge spent within the powers of the ministers, he says. Someone tell me, which minister was authorized to spend overfund in Law 5018? There's no such thing as a grant charge. His exception is that over 15 per cent spending can be made in matters related to national defence and security, which are said to be used at the limits of grants, so we're amazed that the ruling owners don't know either. The Justice and Development Party has left the country's basic issues in the Rant and corruption triangle, and the day-to-day administration is in full effect, and the basic problems continue to deepen. Our country's resources are not used for the welfare, peace and development of our nation, but for the wealth and self-interest of a handful of allies. We have also stated that there is no control over public spending. The ability to spend one foot of the budget is control over the other. The Parliament, which authorises the government to spend, has the authority to oversee spending as a continuation of the same authority. In this sense, budget rights are also a right to audit; the authoritarian also has the right to control, but let me take the authority, and I will not be responsible for anything. As with all things, the government sees itself capable of all things, I am capable of all things, I do all things, I have authority over all things. I represent national will, he says. It doesn't represent national will, but national will is an ash, a whole, a whole representation. But the government, who sees that he is in charge of everything, does not hold him responsible for anything. The person in charge is also responsible. In the name of the House, the Court makes the audits for the sake of the national will. The Court is not only a control mechanism, it is also an institution where Turkey must express its democratic and transparent qualities. The Court's ability to introduce an effective audit process will greatly prevent corruption. There is also a parallel between, unfortunately, the act of disassociation of the Court and the emergence of corruption like volcanoes from a volcano. So we say, if there's no effective control, there's corruption. That's a rule. 2 plus 4 is a rule. Reports on Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality activities have been reported today in the parliamentary immunity files, which we've been arguing about for a year, but whose roots have gone back from 12 years to 1990, which are now in order to commit an open, criminal act, and they're waiting. Well, well, if none of this is talked about, if they don't go to trial, if they're not controlled, they'll go on like volcanoes in a volcano. For twelve years, the government has sought to turn the Court into a sign office, not to expose corruption. For example, the Court, which also supervised performance control of public resources from 1996 to 2010, was reduced to a superficial performance measurement by Law 6085, reduced to superficiality by its law. Again, the abduction of municipal companies founded with public resources from the Court's audit is a product of this intention. The sole goal of power is to spend it without account, without books, avoiding control. I am authorized to spend, and I spend as I please. There is no responsibility, no control, no transparency; then there is corruption, there is pollution, and there are problems we have talked about so far. Now, why is the AKP in this approach? So he has some activities that he doesn't want people to know about, that he doesn't want people to know about. If you claim to be in the service of national will, if you say you represent national will, why do you hide your activities from the public, hide them, so clearly you can't answer for them? How many times have I asked the Minister of Finance: What is the purpose of the Prime Minister's commitment to transactions, such as the sale of government-owned property, rent, transfer, right-of-air facility, which is owned by the Prime Minister in June 2012? What's the result so far? How many demands, how many demands? We've asked you 50 times, we're not getting any responses from the Treasury Department or the government. Here's an abscess, dear friends, dirty relationships here. That's why you can't answer. I'm betting there's corruption here. You're doomed to remain under those allegations, and many of them have turned into detection, not claims. I'd like to extend my regards to all of you to present our other views in the following articles.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0103par0271	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Van MP Özdal Threeer on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0104par0275	Dear friends, I salute you on behalf of our group. It's about the income-go balance of the budget. Of course, it's possible to count the balances on paper with numbers, or to account with them, but it's important to think about how much income-go balance upsets society. There are billions of dollars' worth of income and travel balances on paper, but there are people in this country who are starving, and there are people who spend millions of dollars using the state's public facilities or public budget to feed their own children. Of course, there are those who don't understand themselves when they're hungry, with power and power and power, who buy their own children yachts, folds, cotras, freighters, but who can't buy their own children a toy ship. Now, you need to know how to sit this imbalance on paper. There are families living in tents, but there are presidents with 1,001 rooms. Who are they hosting in these palaces, brother? They say, "What moves do they make about those brothers, and what erratic postures they make, and what arguments they have to discuss. " It would take us days to count these social imbalances. The imbalance with the education budget, the imbalance with the health budget, the Justice Department budget, business, tourism, art... I mean, millions, billions of airs, but the public is miserable, miserable. There are millions of credit card debtors, millions of people suffering for livelihood, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of families being cut off because they couldn't pay the electric bill, but there are politicians who have built an electric company and won a multimillion-dollar budget by partnering with HES or HES companies. Well, of course, we'll have a few words about the giblah of those who fly billions of pounds in the air. So when you say "small," do we think of money, do we understand money when you say "small"? It's not very ethical to discuss it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0105par0278	That's no way to put it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0106par0279	Don't mess with the Kable and the money!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0107par0280	Mr. President, invite him to come clean.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0281	If you knew what a giblah is, if your qiblah had been right, billions of dollars would not have flown during the time of this government.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0109par0282	What are you talking about? What kind of...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0110par0283	It's just a shame.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0284	Shame on you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0111par0285	It doesn't suit you, bro!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0286	If you go out and we will say every word in the court, and no one will object to us. If you say, "Woe be to you." You have to know that your word is not true. You have to know that the word is heavier than the word.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0112par0287	Talk about the budget.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0288	You have to know it's heavier.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0113par0289	It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0290	And we say what we want. You can't tell us anything. If you say so, go ahead and hope for your own good.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0114par0291	That's what you call it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0292	We're telling the truth. That's what the opposition does. In democratic systems, anyone with a mind knows.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0114par0293	But don't insult me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0294	Anyone who's smart will be right. Of course, the opposition in the democratic system speaks, recommends, criticizes, and is judged.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0114par0295	Speak, brother, don't insult me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0296	There's nothing offensive about what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0114par0297	What do you mean, no? You're saying it's your hat.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0115par0298	Oh, there's a metaphor. Take it off, you'll answer. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0300	Mr. President, if my time, my friends, are going to give a speech...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0116par0301	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0117par0302	We have the right to invite you to a clean language.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0108par0303	But your responsibility is to direct the General Assembly to listen to me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0118par0304	But use a clean language.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0119par0305	You're gonna teach the president a job?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0120par0306	Mr. Threeer, you listen to yourself. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0121par0309	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0310	Mr. President, your friends... if we're talking about law, Mr. Orator, they've come up with the word "small" and "small." I was going to ask for the same reason you didn't promise me.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0123par0311	He didn't want to, he didn't want to, he didn't want to, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0312	I think that your attitude is antidemocratic, and it would be better if you directed the General Assembly to listen to the preacher rather than to make promises to me. Please, the House...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0124par0313	Mr. Threeer, you didn't have that conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0314	Yeah, but...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0124par0315	I don't think you have much of a say in this conversation when you're standing there.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0316	By generalizing our group...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0124par0317	Now, you're talking, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0318	Mr. President, since they've been generalizing our group...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0125par0319	Mr. Ozdal, make your speech.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0122par0320	Yes, I'll make a new introduction to the subject. Now, we can see that it's possible to combine the budget's income and expense balance on the accounts, on the papers. Our Finance Minister's greatest achievement is actually a success on paper. Now, look at the education budget. Teachers are not happy -- the main goal of the education budget is to provide good education to the student -- the students are not happy, the administrators aren't happy. Well, you have three targets at the educational institution: students, education workers - teachers, all education workers - and administrators. None of this is happy, but I'll tell you, private companies, services involved in education, sir, the satisfaction of security companies is high. In health, again, patients aren't happy, their relatives aren't happy, but those who built a private hospital for their own children, the people who sold him medical equipment, the people who own the drug storage are happy. Is such instability acceptable? Speaking of medicine, you're talking about justice, you're talking about it directly. Mr. President says it's a great danger if Kobani, Cirir, Afrin cantons merge. What shortsightedness this is, what a misunderstanding this is; it is a false hostile mentality! Today, Turkey has the most profitable trade in the world with the Federal District of southern Kurdistan. Well, before the federal administration of southern Kurdistan, Mr. Barzani, when Mr. Talabani came to this country, remember how insulted the media was, what they were saying. But Turkey's biggest business relationship is there today, and Turkey's most profitable business relationship is there. It's possible for Kobani tomorrow, it's possible for Cirir, it's possible for Afrin, but if the children who are now forced to escape ISIS violence in Kobani are left there to die in the AFAD tents that will not search for Nazi camps, will we be able to look at their faces tomorrow, and that needs to be discussed. We'll live together in the same geography. These children are miserable, not just the Kobani children, not just the Kurds, but all the people who come from there, 2 million people are refugees, and you haven't even accepted the refugee law. More than 3,600 people on your ships alone have been hunted by human traffickers on their way to Europe to flee this country, to become refugees, to eat their flesh, fish were hunted in Istanbul, fish served in four heads of Istanbul, billions of dollars, and who were served in palaces. At this time, eating those fish reminds you of what they are. Now, you're not going to think about that, you're going to transfer the immigration administration budget, the AFAD budget to corruption, the containers are going to rot in Van. 10,000 containers are going to rot in Van. They're going to be put on hold, and you're going to see a lot of tents for the Kurdish, Arab, Assyrian refugees from Syria. Is that the income-go balance? A state has to do whatever it takes to be a state, even if it wants to show its power. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you're saying that someone should die, someone should live, and that would be called balance, then you can think as you please, and the people will give the answer when they need it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0329	Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0127par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0331	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0127par0332	As Mr. Threeer spoke, he made the AFAD camps look like Nazi camps. This analogy is not a right, right analogy. Mr. Threeer must also have information about what Nazi camps are. In the camps that AFAD had built, people tried to give food and clothing to the Syrian who had migrated near 2 million. There they are trying to provide a way for them to survive the maintenance of their lives and the atrocities in Syria. The United Nations has praising explanations for Turkey's work. I hope Mr. Threeer visited those camps. If so, he will see the error of the comparison of the situation of the camps there, but this metaphor may result in a little political desire to sharpen the tongue. I've been promised this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0334	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0128par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0336	Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0128par0337	I demand a brief word in order to inform the House correctly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0338	Tell him, sir, tell him to file a report.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0128par0339	Mr. President, for the record, It is known to everyone that over 2 million people have come from that border to our country. The state's official authorities state that AFAD is only 14,000 of the people they call our guest, and that's the number for Kobani. Even AFAD doesn't know what the outcome of more than two-thirds of the remaining 2 million is, and if we ask the question here, it's possible to see that AFAD is no different from Nazi camp. Why aren't lawmakers allowed to see it? What's there to hide? Why are people being insulted there? What offends one's honor is Nazi, similar to Nazi politics. Sometimes death is preferred to life, but most people prefer to die. Why? Because he didn't want to be humiliated. Most of the people... they did the same in the earthquake, in AFAD. We've been going to a lot of teenagers and saying it. The young people were saying: "If only I had not survived the earthquake, if only I had died, I would not have seen these days.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0340	Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0128par0341	That's how we say it as people who see this kind of dialogue. Otherwise, we have no purpose but to speak the truth.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0342	Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0129par0343	Mr. President, one sentence, for the record. Mr. Threeer certainly doesn't know what a Nazi camp is, he certainly doesn't.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0126par0345	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hatay MP Mehmet Ali Editoglu. Here you are, Mr. Ediboglu.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0130par0348	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the budget balance of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, as in 2013, in 2014, recession, inflation, unemployment and debt are almost over. In 2015, our citizens face similar and difficult times due to these ill-advised economic understandings and unpredictable foreign policy. The power, which envisioned its 2014 inflation bid at 5.3 per cent, went on the road to halting wages increases in the face of almost double inflation, and forced employees to crush inflation. In 2015, employees' wages will also increase by 3.63 per cent in the first six months by 3.3 per cent in the second six months. So from now on, the revenues of our public employees and pensioners have melted against inflation. Unemployment, which is the most dangerous of social and economic problems, is increasing, and the actual unemployment has exceeded 17 per cent, while the number of unemployed has exceeded 5.5 million. As of 2013, according to official figures, about 20 million of our people live under the poverty line. All of this data shows Turkey's situation, drawing pictures of poverty, poverty, unemployment and the externally dependent economy. Precious lawmakers, all these corrupt, theft, unemployment, and economically, my election district, Hatay, in particular, has lost nothing due to the externally dependent economy and non-zero foreign policy of the AKP government, which has been exhausted by tradesmen, traders, farmers, exporters, pensioners, housewives, students, university-employed young people, subcontracted teachers, subcontracted workers, poor populations, poor economies and non-zero foreign policy. Erzin, Fourways, Payas, Alexanderun, Arsiz, Belen are not worth a narcissist in our counties, but oranges, left to rot in our tangerine branches. In our counties, the shipping industry and the iron steel industry are dying because of our wrong policies in the Middle East, there are major problems in exports, unemployment is rising rapidly, business closing. Many summer homes in the region have been closed for several years due to these problems, and the summerers can't go home, the tourism sector is at risk. Thousands of tons of cotton grow in the Amik Plain, where the situation is more severe, cannot be sold even half of last year's price. Thus, more than 300,000 citizens in our counties, such as Reyhanlı, Kurıkhan, Kumlu, Hassa, are swimming in debt, arguing about not planting their fields next year. Reyhanlı, Altınözü, Yayladağı, and thousands of our citizens in the region are out of work because of their protective understanding of Syrian asylum seekers, especially these three counties. The largest truck fleet in Hatay, Turkey's largest truck fleets, are out of work because the borders are closed, huge truck markets for sale have been created in Antioch. As if the trade centre of Antioch had closed down due to historic long-distance trades, economic stagnation was not enough, two malls opened downtown, and again allowing the Syrians to open unregistered businesses finished our small trades. At the point of halt in production in Defne and Samandag, Turkey's once-great-age fruit-producing districts are also facing destruction of the shipping sector. As a result, Hatay's people have been out there trying to make a living for the last four years, and while the revenue is rapidly falling, the industry that will make money in our province has been unfortunately and only smuggling; yes, only smugglers are making money in Hatay Province. One of the interesting things that's been pissing off my Hatayli countrymen for months is the unresolved power outages. They want the cat's nests in the transformers destroyed as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have one more important matter to discuss. Turkey is taking steps to become Pakistani because of its subcontractor foreign policy, while Hatay is being led to Peshawarisation. You'll see how similar you are in the comparison I'm about to make. As we know, we saw a school raid in Pashawar the other day on the news. In this raid, Taliban militants took 500 - most children - students hostage in a military school. In this raid, they slaughtered 150 children -- many children again. The inhuman Taliban were born during the civil war in Afghanistan, and in the lap of Pakistan, we know this, just as the Free Suree Army, was born in Turkey. The Taliban, who were helped to be formed by Pakistan's ill-advised, unpredictable politicians, was also in power in Afghanistan, which eventually returned to the Yontma Stone Age. He signed oppressive practices that weren't even in the Middle Ages in Afghanistan. Like the practices of moderate organizations like SOO, ISIS, Nusra, who are radically controlled in Syria today. Pakistani executives of the time wanted to take part in Afghanistan, their neighbours, as the leading role in the United States. Just as we're going to take part in the Middle East, we're going to put one in Turkey with no strategic depth, we're going to take three in easyness and shallow policies with Neosman sauce. Because of the Afghan civil war, millions of refugees settled in Pakistan, just like the 2 million Syrian and Iraqi refugees who moved to Turkey. A number of armed organizations, particularly the Taliban, have been clustered in northwestern Pakistan, and agents of dozens of countries' intelligence organizations have circled that land for years, just as terrorist organizations and agents of various countries who have settled on the southern borders of Turkey have been in our southern provinces. In the process, Pakistan lost its inner peace, its social order fell apart, the education system collapsed. Education, radical organisation and congregation-type organisations have been set in line with their own political objectives. Science has been destroyed from schools, superstition has been dominated, just as we have today in Turkey. Pakistan's economy is upside down because of all this. Corruption has increased day after day, Afghanistan has returned to its border crossing inn, security has been eliminated, just like today's process in Turkey. Pakistani security forces carried out the last Peshawar attack in the wake of an operation against Taliban terrorists nesting in their country. This attack is only the last of the terrorist attacks committed by the Taliban in Pakistan, and it is well known that it will continue. Here, a whole country like Pakistan has paid the ultimate price for being a terror base over the years. It shows that Pakistan, the neighbouring country, is paying a heavy price for interfering in Afghanistan's internal affairs, and will continue to pay. Dear lawmakers, what happened in Pakistan must be a lesson to Turkey, but unfortunately we don't see a competent foreign policy to take a course in this government. Honourable lawmakers, I warn the government to fall from this bench to history: Syria is on its way to becoming Turkey's Afghanistan, so Turkey is on its way to Pakistan, and my beautiful knowledge is on its way to becoming Hatay, Pashawar. Cilvegözü, many acts of terrorism blocked by Reyhan's explosions and intelligence are a clear sign of this. Dear lawmakers, what has happened in our region in recent years has unfortunately confirmed my discovery of Pakistaniisation and Peshawanisation. It's a way for the AKP government to train and equip organisations with an outside-imposed training project, and come back from this dead end as soon as possible. Because there is no difference between terrorists such as ISIS, Nusra and Al Qaeda, women, children, civilians, who kill without shaking their hands, who cut their heads with blind knives, and so-called moderate terrorists like OSO who slaughtered elementary school students in Hama Ikrime. Today, the CIA's statement has been released to the press, and you can read from today's news that the 2,000 ESO militants they have trained and equipped are fighting on the ISIS lines. We also read over and over the news that the weapons that we sent to the ESO were in the hands of ISIS. For their own benefit, the imperialists divide and divide Islamic countries, destabilize the region, colonize it, shed the blood of tens of thousands of people for one barrel of oil. Let us not bring water to the mill of the United States and Israel, for its plague is great. Therefore, peace in the land, peace in the world, is urgently needed in the independent mind of Ataturk. Returning to that understanding revealed by Ataturk is important for both peace and peace in the land. Finally, we have to explain the fact that being a Trojan horse for the interests of imperialists in the region is of no use to the people of the region or to the people of Turkey, and history has shown us this fact over and over again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0131par0370	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu. In the name of his personal name, Tunceli MP Kamer Young. Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0132par0373	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the balance law of Article 3 of the 2013 Final Accounts Act. My respects to all of you. Now, dear friends, this government has passed a law on additional funding by 2007, but after 2007, it does not make laws for additional funds and spends on the allowance. Then why the budget? Why did you stop taking it off? Here, I'm asking the Minister of Finance. Because he says, "Yahu, we already have 330 MPs behind us, we do all kinds of illegalities, we do all sorts of irregularities, we do all sorts of corruption, but this group is already laundering us, why should we get tired?" So friends, we're not negotiating a budget, we're actually, in fact -- we're negotiating the budget of Erdogan and his family. Look, dear friends, I'll give you a couple of allegations of abuse. See, the People's Bank lends a loan to a company called Meksan. In return, it buys 5 million square feet of land in the village of Pendik Ballica. In 2009, he wants this Meksa to go bankrupt, the People's Bank is making 137 million, and he's bringing it back when he should have cashed it, passing it on to a company called Akabeh for $27 million, and he's handing over the collateral. So if he cashed in the deposit, he'd get the money. Who are the partners of this Aqabeh? Abdullah Tivnikli and Tophead. Now, they get this, they get the expert to determine its value, it's worth 195 million, but then they sell it through a reliable mining company channel for $110 million. So the government, the People's Bank, gives up $110 million here. Of course, I don't want to elaborate, you can explain. Okay, Mr. Secretary, so this 110 million People's Bank is handing it over to a private company and giving it up. Who's going to investigate this? You're telling us: "Go to the prosecutors." Ya, the prosecutor does not work. The Court does not serve, brother. Now, you've brought a man from Çukýk, you've made him president of the Court. He's doing everything but the Supreme Court, brother, at your disposal. Reports are coming in, whatever irregularities there are on that review board, they're all being removed, and then it comes out that way. I've just asked you, Bodrum is a very valuable land of 687 acres, a land worth $1 billion, which is being delivered to the Hotel Rixos for $150 million. Guys, this Privatisation High Council is a source of abuse. He doesn't know the law, he's not in control, each of his members is in management, they get big salaries, they get big money, they don't have control. And what they're doing is not auditing, and it's-- look, they're selling $1 billion worth of land for 150 million, and they're leaving just two days later, and they're getting $180 million from the Agriculture Bank. Oh, my God, can the government be so repulsed? Is that a thing? So you ransacked the government, ransacked it. Now, I just told you where I am. In the past, Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, who has completely aided and abetted corruption and abuses in this country because of all the joys of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The government's land... friends, you keep the dishes, so you don't show any integrity. I'm asking you a question. I mean, after Erdoğan was elected President, he stayed on that mission for fifteen days. How much did he spend covered funds? We're just saying that because he's out of order there -- so he's lost his position as Prime Minister -- and he's probably spent about 20 million dollars in covered funds. We're going to sue him tomorrow, and we're going to hold you responsible for that, so how come you're giving him money from this covert fund when he's missing his position as Prime Minister? You're the one responsible for this. You give away the treasure fields for free, you don't stop it. Now, there's a citizen from Tucson the other day, and there's a quarry. The forest engineer at the quarry said, "This little thing of this one has stopped the quarry." Sir, he's rented out of the woods, he's been asking for permission here for six months. He's here, he's written to the Prime Minister of the Forest Office. We ask the prime minister: Alas, this man has a pledge of assurances; sir, it's our Prime Minister's will, and we're doing it for him. Why did you put him on the Prime Minister's leave now? Because you're going to get a donation to TURGEV, when the treasures are being sold, and that's the whole point, so is there any other way to explain it? Of course, we can't say because we don't have time, so you're looting Turkey, and tomorrow you're going to pay very hard. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It doesn't matter if you don't have anything in your pocket, but you're the one who's been most helpful and abetting.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0133par0384	The government would crack at this slander.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0134par0385	Thank you, Mr. Young. Denizli MP Nurcan Dalbudak. Here you go, Mr. Dalbudak.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0135par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. At the very beginning of my speech, we thank our Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek (Mr. Mehmet Simsek) for drafting the 2015 budget bill, and to all our friends, everyone who's done all the work. Budget talks are divided into valuable lawmakers, interest budgets prior to EC PARTY governments and the nation's axisd service budgets after the EC PARTY administrations.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0136par0392	Debt budgets, debt!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0135par0393	Twelve years ago, about 86% of the taxes collected from our employees, companies and farmers -- basically from all parts of society -- are going to the state's domestic and external debt interest, and now almost $87 of the $100 tax becomes service; it becomes a road, a school, a hospital. There have been criticisms of privatisation practices here for days. First of all, I'd like to say that in every government period, privatisation has been made. Two is more transparent, open to competition in this process than ever before. Three, many beings known as privatisation are merely the age of the right to operate, such as TÜRK TELEKOM, which has not been sold, and will return to the state in 2026. In addition, electricity distribution companies have been transferred to companies for some time. The airports will return to the government as well. Again, for days there have been talks here, as poverty has increased and income distribution has been corrupted. We don't say what we're about to say, folks, the United Nations and the World Bank reports. It's like this: Unfortunately, today, there are less than a billion people a day in the world, and that's zero in Turkey. Thank God we don't have a citizen living under two dollars and 15 cents a day. Our population, which is less than 4 dollars and 30 cents a day, is now down to 2.2 per cent. In transport, health, education, and so on, budgets have increased and become service to our people. We have nothing to do with those who have lost their minds, but we say to our nation, with persecution, that the AK PARTY governments have achieved their goals. With the budget open target 33.4 billion, we'll probably close a 25 billion-year deficit. As in all parts of Turkey, investments continue in our beautiful Denizli. We make a total of 2,520 metres of tube tunnel tunneling on the road connecting Denizli to Antalya, with a total of 229 metres of tunneling on the right, 152 meters on the left, and a total of 77 meters on the left, spent $2.1m on this service alone. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Our dental hospital is almost finished, and we've reached the tender stage of our local hospital for Denizli. Despite all these goals, these services, the right policies, despite the fact that we've survived two elections, Turkey will maintain stability and growth despite the ongoing EU crisis in the Middle East, despite the ongoing EU crisis, despite traitors who appear to be like us but take orders from external connections. As the whole world looks at the developed and rich countries, Turkey continues to extend its hand of help and compassion to this region, to this geography and to the whole world. We have the pride of being the most progressive country in OECD countries, so let's all go through this together, guys. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We will move this country to its rightful place, no one's concern, no doubt, with the ancient values of our civilization, the beauty of our faith, and the vast projects of our century that will combine modern values with the beauty of our faith. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2015 to be good for our country, for our nation, and I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0137par0404	Thank you, Mr. Dalbudak. We're moving on to the QA, Mr. Lawmakers. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0138par0407	Mr. Secretary, as a result of energy policies which have become dependent on outside energy policies in the AKP administration, the electricity costs 19.4 cents in production with stone coal; 15.95 cents in lignite coal -- especially I want to draw attention to this -- 28.24 cents in natural gas. Let friends who have just spoken listen: electricity costs 1.91 cents in hydro. Even though the 2014 average is 13.97 cents, why are you selling this electricity to a citizen for 38 cents? That's question number one. In this context, what percentage of the money invested in the 2015 budget did you set aside for energy production? I'd like you to tell me how much energy is invested in the investment.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0137par0409	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0139par0411	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you answered a question I asked yesterday regarding 613,977 cases. I'm predicting over 7 million cases, but this 613,000 cases, when it comes to the other courts and the higher courts, when the municipalities and the OSCEs include other public institutions, we see that a very important part of the cases are caused by the public. Is there any study of the IRS, the Investigation on these? I mean, it's the public's fault that there are so many cases. Do you have any work on that? Plus, the 2013 budget was 396 billion, the revenues were 362, 34 deficits. You see the new numbers, you've reduced the deficit to 20, but the spending on the grant is close to 10. There's 38 billion back-up funds...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0140par0415	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0141par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. I also told you from the bench that by 2007, you had passed a law on additional funds, but after 2007, you did not make a law on additional funds; can you explain why? My second question is, how much is our currency reserve now? So how much is the short-term debt that we have to pay this year? With this currency reserve, are we going to be able to pay this short-term debt or not? That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0142par0421	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0143par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been allegations in the newspapers for two days that both social media and social media have been asking the government for help in maintaining public order from the baby killer Ocalan, who lies in Imran. So far, there has been no statement from the government's authorities. What's the bottom line of this? I'd appreciate it if you would inform Parliament and our nation. Do you have any good news in your budget for a citrus manufacturer who can't sell oranges and lemons for 25 cents? Again, with the pre-budget judicial package, the judges and prosecutors' rights have been improved, but their superiors, including your classmates, have always been paid more than the judges to your power. Now the scissors are too open between these and the judges. Do you at least consider equating the salaries of the property managers with the judges? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0144par0428	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Dawn...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0145par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. In your opinion, 8,000 workers working on the highways have been court-martialed by permanent workers. Why hasn't he been recruited for four years despite a court order? That's what I want to know. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dawn. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0146par0435	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're a strange person. lt's not my word, it's Reza Zarrab. He says on the phone he's a strange person for you. I'll tell you, he's not like the others. And he adds, "You know, they're in the same mindset with Ali Babacan, you know, things like that. When your political career is over, I think you should frame these two sentences and hang them in your room, because this is really your medal of pride, but I'm going to ask for self-criticism. There was a polemic that you entered with Dani Rodrik, you remember, is it real or do you do it? That's one of the biggest criticisms you've ever had. Would you like to go over it with a self-criticism as well as your medal?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0147par0438	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a point before I answer any questions. So I don't think any conscience can make refugee camps in Turkey look like Nazi camps. See, the United Nations High Commissioner was in Turkey in January, in the middle of the furnace, and he says: "The Syrian people in great pain may have a one-and-largest chance of having neighbors like Turkey." Again, recently, the United Nations representative in charge of refugees -- who is only responsible for the region -- says: "Turkey is doing an extraordinary job. I mean, let's do politics, let's criticize Turkey's efforts in Turkey. Thank you very much. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer the questions. Energy is about external addiction: You can appreciate that natural gas investments were particularly dense in the 1990s because oil prices were very low, and natural gas prices are usually associated with oil, and it seemed very attractive at the time. But I can safely say that 75 percent of the plants that are currently being built are renewable energy, and probably with the completion of it from five to seven years, the renewable energy -- which includes HES, which may be different from international definitions -- will likely be close to 50 percent of the total energy. I, of course, believe that domestic renewable energy sources need to be activated. I need to examine the price of electricity, especially how we are with Europe, how Turkey has seen its progress. Mr. Kusoglu's question, again, means a lot. I really don't think the public...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0149par0446	You didn't tell me if there was an investment or not. What's his cut of the budget?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0447	Well, now that we're doing investments by private sector, that's right, there's a trend.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0149par0448	I mean, we don't do anything as a government.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0449	Now, we really need to examine this issue, so we need to eliminate the fundamental issues caused by the conflict between the state and the citizen. Therefore, serious work must be done in this regard. The guys gave me a note. In 2011, Article 659 was brought to terms of reconciliation and surrender with the Court of Justice, which aims to conclude the disputes between private and legal people with reconciliation and peace without turning it into a case. The incentive, of course, may reduce the number of cases. But it's also clear that we need to do some really detailed work on this. Mr. Young, you've just asked me a question -- their details have arrived -- let me answer it first, and then I'll answer the last question you ask. Now, my dear friends, the property in Bodrum-Gölköy has been privatized at a price of $277 million in privatisation Supreme Council, which is located at 678,963,072 square meters, 16/08/2012 and so on. This privatisation...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0150par0452	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0453	Excuse me, please. This privatisation, look, it's translucent, it's done publicly by being transferred from television screens. Now, then, after the cycle, the prosecution has stopped running and the case remains to be discussed. The court's reason for stopping the execution is that part of the land is in the area of status and that the sale will not improve efficiency and reduce public costs, which will not suit the purpose of Law 4046. Now, it can't be built because there's already a part of this -- not a taste -- that's because it's a site -- that's big.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0151par0456	They'll change it quickly, my dear. The government is under their command. They'll take it off the site.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0457	But, Mr. Young, look, let me repeat, the Privatisation Administration has been doing this for years. At the point of transparency, where it's open to everyone, so if we're missing anything here, look, they went to court, so it hasn't been canceled.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0151par0458	Here, Genghis is gone, he's got $180 million in loans from the Agriculture Bank for this land.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0459	Dear friends, I can't determine the value of this, the value of this is related to its development, it's associated with its status. Look, here, some of it...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0151par0460	It's the game that's coming back, we know it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0461	Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer your question. Now, dear friends, a great deal of our short-term debt is the financing of the trade provided by banks. I mean, you're selling from the outside, you're importing from Turkey, you need currency to finance it, you need credit.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0152par0463	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0464	Give me a few minutes and I'll answer all the questions.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0152par0465	I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0148par0467	Thank you. Now, in Turkey, in fact, this is very unlikely that foreign trade-related loans will not be translated, but the question is: we have about 132-133 billion dollars -- I don't know what the latest number is -- around the reserve. We have about that much short-term debt, so I'll give you about that. But Turkey's debt, which should be translated within a year, is actually more than short-term, because there are mid-long-term loans, and they have a one-year deadline. And if you add the current deficit, it's probably over $200 billion, but so far, there's been no problem translating them. The reason is that Turkey -- you know -- doesn't have a fixed courtship regime. Second: We have, yes, a current problem, but we're actually at the budget deficit point -- not because we're negotiating the budget here -- compare it to countries that are developing now, compared with countries that are rich in oil, we're one of the best, most powerful financial structures. Now, is there anything about the citrus manufacturer? There are agricultural benefits, which, in fact, is our Ministry of Agriculture's initiative. Again, foreign trade support is the initiative of our Ministry of Economics. The scissor between the judge-client management supervisors has been opened, so you're probably right at this point, but we don't have any work to do as of now. As for Mr. Günak's question regarding 8,000 road workers, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Labor are currently working on it. I hope this issue will be resolved. Now, there's actually been a misunderstanding in our polarity with Dani Rodrik. I said there, I said, "In all international comparisons, there's a national income comparison per person of nominal dollars." In fact, no one talks to the United Nations, the World Bank, about the number of national incomes per person at fixed prices. There's not much difference between what I said and what he said. As a matter of fact, I know that national income per person in Turkey does not increase by fixed prices by threefold. And I specifically put this in last year's budget text. So if you look at my budget text, the buying power is 2.1 times higher in the parite, and it's really up 45 percent, but it's up 3-3.5 times higher in the numinal dollar. But I said that the international comparisons were made on a nominal dollar dry. So there's actually our perspective, our perspective, but there's a point of truth to what he says, and there's a point of truth to what I say. So Dani Rodrik is a very important economist raised by Turkey, and I met her once at Harvard. For him, he's a person I care about, but there's been a complete misunderstanding in that polemic. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0153par0474	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Transferred, canceled and complementary grant MADDE 4- (1) The central administration is added to Law 5018, as shown in the relevant column of the final account statements; A) (I) is a total of 428,025,714.23 Turkish liras, which have not been spent in 2013 as part of the general budget. B) (III) is a total of 22.989,756.95 Turkish liras, which were not spent in 2013. The grant is transferred to the next year. (2) The central administration, as shown in the expense statements, is added to Law 5018, from the special grants used during 2013 and transferred to the following year; A) (I) is a total of 21,235,289,745,26 Turkish Lira of public administrations under the general budget. B) (III) A total of 4,285,538,964,53 Turkish Lira of special budgetary administrations in the ruler, C) (III) is a total of 308,193,415,81 Turkish Lira of regulator and auditory institutions on the table. The grant has been cancelled. (3) The central administration is added to Law 5018, to meet public administration's over-funded costs in 2013, as shown in the final expense statements; A) (I) Turkish Lira totalled 9,284,415,318,31 for public administrations under the general budget, B) (II) Turkish Lira totalling 59,213,292.08 for special budgetary administrations on the ruler, Completive grant accepted. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0154par0493	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of the 2013 Final Accounts Act. I salute you all. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue with my earlier speech. Now, after the December 17th-25 corruption incidents began, there were some words in public, and I'd like to remind you of one of them. Mr. Nurettin Canikli, deputy chairman of the Justice and Development Party of the period, and now Minister of Customs and Trade, had used the following statements to argue that the court reports of 2012 had failed to come to the House: "It's a good thing they didn't, because the reports are terrible. So what do you mean by "too bad"? So there are some very strong, very serious issues that have come up. So he's calling the government a serious....... These statements are addressed by Prime Minister Erdoğan's Chief of Staff. He answers, and Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has instructed him. Sir, no one, we don't know who ordered it, we're leaving it to the House's discretion. He... he gave me a loan. Now, you see, if these reports had come, Mr. Hasan... had said, we would have been silent. Their statements had been used. And now, this is not an isolated incident; it represents a mindset, a creation, a soul, a essence, dear friends. The latest example belongs to the current Minister of Transport, Mr. Lütfi Else. On December 4, 2014, a conversation, a dialogue, was held during a visit to the Court's president. For some reason, the meeting includes Court Transport Group supervisors who oversee the ministry's spending and tenders. The Minister of Transport is visiting the Court's President, and the Court's supervisors, the head of the relevant department, etc., are also studying the Transport Ministry's accounts and so on. Why is it found? What kind of visit is this? Minister Elvan uses this phrase in the interview, and I didn't see him belied: we can act against the law, sometimes manage us. These are all words of decay. No one's sorry, the testimony may sound harsh, but it's a fact. Why are you acting against the law, and why are you after my administration? Can't you do it right? And you're breaking the law to break it? Another issue is about the auditing staff, the Court inspectors. In the 92nd issue of the Court, there is an article entitled The Study of a Survey on the Perceptions, Expectations and Views of Controls. In this article, 54 per cent of the Court's auditors say they control under duress. So 54 percent of us are under pressure. Under whose duress? Of course, the power and the supreme administration of the Court. 21 per cent of respondents have been influenced by the study. They say "Other than 33 per cent have said that they are partially affected. " So, how do you stay under the influence when you're being audited? How do you stay under the influence of an investigation? Dear friends, if the ministers have resigned on charges of bribery and corruption, and you've waved their resignations to the people on the bus, on the balcony, in the rally squares, it means that you salute and impress all the people; you influence the judiciary, you influence the officers who serve, and I stand by the mistakes that have been made. There's no other example. When the children of the ministers were taken into custody, it was said that nothing would come of it. There's nothing there. Even the message is intended to compel the police, the judge, the prosecutor. I mean, it's nothing. He couldn't say it, guys. They said it was nothing. Now, he's really trying really hard to make sure nothing comes of it. And 67 per cent of those surveyed say the Court does not inform the public at regular intervals on the implementation results of the budget. Now, this is the scandal demands of ministers on one hand, the complaints of pressure from court inspectors on the other, and that's the idea of ruling the Justice and Development Party. He sees government as a family company, not a trust. You began to see the country as your property, in this twelve years of comfortable power, and with the arrogance of this power. But remember, this country is not the property of power. Now, as we come to this day, the Court's reports for 2013 have been presented to the Parliament in total 157, including the national administration, social security institutions, and other public administrations. Other than that, 243 reports have been sent to relevant public administrations. We don't know what was in these reports, what findings. This causes the House to fail to fulfill its own powers and responsibilities. The number one perpetrator of this matter is the government. Dear friends, in this period of time, there has never been a government in our history -- not in Seljuklu, nor in the history of the Republic -- that has been opposed to such a shadowy, virtuous and just state. During this period, during the Justice and Development Party, corruption became like a virus, destroying social and economic tissue. It's almost like there's no corruption, no ministry, no institution, no organization. The Lighthouse, privatisations, tenders, municipalities, loans from public banks to supporters, embezzled loans; corruption in the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Health and other ministries, and we need to tell them for hours here. It's just that we have to spend hours discussing the irregularities of the Soma mines that Turkey's Coal Company has done on the mines. The Court has been rendered incapable of auditing, audit boards have been paralyzed, there have been 170 amendments to the Public Contracts Act and Public Contracts Act, and there have been immunity from the Public Contraction Act on 64 issues. As far as we're concerned, the frontline of these corruptions has been largely opened with these regulations. ON the zoning powers vested in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the government and the government must reconsider and make self-criticism. Yesterday, Mr. Finance Minister tried to explain changes in the Public Contraction Law. However, the events of this incident, I'm afraid, have invalidated that explanation. With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0155par0508	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Amassian MP Ramis Topal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0156par0512	I have made a pledge on behalf of my Republican People's Party group on the four-party of the final account law of budget talks, which has been transferred, canceled and completed. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, I'm going to evaluate the appearance of the 2014 budget in Turkey via Amasya. No matter how many resources have been transferred from the budgets in the past years, the answer is a huge zero. The government received a tax from Amasya, but didn't invest. What message did the Amasian people give to the AKP in exchange for this zero? Fifteen years later, Merzifon took the municipalities of Güvermüş Hacıköy ten years later and gave them to the Republican People's Party. This warning will continue in the 2015 general elections. I'm going to share with you the investments made or not done in Amasya, in fact, over the years, and as the Republican People's Party, I'm going to propose solutions to these problems. The city of love and love has raised princes to the Ottomans, and from the narrow roads of this historic city where the foundations of our republic are laid, trucks, trucks, machine machines, passenger buses are passing and heavy traffic is taking place. In rainy weather and holidays, on special days, this traffic density is increasing. The solution to this traffic problem is the immediate closure of the freeway. The AKP government has been trying to finish the freeway with a greyder truck for ten years. I've asked the Ministry several times. The Minister of Transport has made these proposals a mockery of the date. He says it will end in this date. But for four years, let alone be finished, there has been no road to a barley length. Amasya no longer believes the AKP's power will finish this circuit path. Our word: in the Republican People's Party's rule, we will finish this circuit road within a year and free the Amassian from the traffic jam. Again, the Enlightenment Dam, which the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs laid its glorious foundation, has not been finished for years because of its tender problems, and it doesn't seem to be over. In two years, including this dam and the irrigation canals, we'll finish and solve the water problem of our own villages, and solve the irrigation problems. We will solve the irrigation problems of all the villages of Amasya. We're going to water all the agricultural fields. It's not going to hurt agriculture, it's going to be the peasant, the farmer. You've condemned the peasant, the farmer, the banks, you've put him up to his neck in debt. You mortgaged his land, his tractor, his house, the banks. We'll save the peasant from debt and make him the master of the nation again. The municipality of Amasya built a bus station in an area where Amasya was arguing. Accidents happen every day in and out of the bus station. You couldn't even make it to Amasya, a safe intersection to get in and out of the bus station. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers don't stop counting problems. A crossroad problem is the linkages of our villages along the Amasya-Tokat road. And there are traffic accidents here that are constantly losing lives and property. We're talking to these villages, and in our power, we're going to review the connections to the main road of our village roads, and we're going to build intersections where accidents don't happen. The AKP's main service to Amasya (Amasya) was to shut down the city's municipalities. You made our mayors garbagemen, confiscated the properties of the towns, took the machines, put them in private government warehouses, and left them there to rot. You've never thought about how these owners are going to serve these cities, how they're going to fix water failures, how they're going to clean up streets and streets, how they're going to fix sewer failures, how they're going to take the garbage, or how they're going to wait a few days to get it done. Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, our chairman, is saying that we will reopen our municipality in the province of the Republican People's Party. Amasya won't get the service from the center, she'll get it from her own place, from her own town. Another service of the AKP to Amasya has been made by HESECs. You have filled the valley of Greenermak, which is the life water of Taşova, with the hees, and cut off the water of the Tasovaite, and made the future dark. After that world-class tobacco, now you're about to destroy the gumbo. You didn't invest anything in Tasova. You have dug up all the streets of Taşova, and dug up without knowing what to do. You have condemned our people to mud and dust. We'll fix the Adnan Menderes Bridge, we'll maintain it." You said, you condemned him to filth. The Ministry of Health is ignoring the Taşova State Hospital. At first, we don't have obstetrics, orthopedics, children and internal doctors. He's either taking a leave of absence or taking a report, and he's not going on duty. Health is in the hands of God in Taşova. Your government treats Taskova as a stepchild. Don't worry, Taşova will give you an answer in these general elections. Göynukek and the Hamboss have left our counties to the fates of your government. All of our counties are in ruins, broken-down, neglected view of a village. You've shut down public institutions in our districts. Your intention is to shut down our counties and turn them into villages. In your twelve years of power, you haven't invested a bit in our counties, you've received multiple taxes. I wonder what face you'll be going to in general elections, going to these villages, going to the counties, what you'll say, how you'll ask for votes. Suluova Amasya is the most efficient of our land, where animalism is most common. You've finished farming and livestock here, too. You put the feeder and the peasant up to his neck in debt. You didn't create a profit, you created a corrupt feeder, a farmer. Before you came to power, we were one of eight countries in the world capable of farming itself. Now you have made wheat, barley, corn, beans, lentils, lentils, live meat, dead meat, or worse, a land that imports hay. And as if it wasn't enough, you rolled up the sleeves for the thermal plant that exposed Suluova to toxic gases. We're not going to build this thermal plant for your ally with the people of Suluova. Our chairman-in-chief, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, has said: "We will give the village, the farmers, the farmers, the workers of agriculture at 2 TL. We will not buy ETV or VAT from the diesel. We will make Amassian and Suluova feeders profit and pay their debts. We're going to create a strong farmer, powerful Turkey. After Merzifon and Silver Hakcıköy moved to CHP municipalities, they show not only what social municipalism is like but not to Merzifon and Güşıköy, but to all Amasya. Congratulations to both presidents. The Ministry of Health ignores both our hospitals in Merzifon and Silver Crossville, as well as our other counties. At first, we don't have obstetrics, children, orthopedics, internal neurosurgeons in our hospitals. Our patients are left here alone with their destinies. Here, the patients are in the hands of God. In our power, these hospitals will have medical equipment, medical equipment shortages, all of our doctors assigned. No one will ever doubt it. There are connections in the village roads in Silver Crossville. Our village roads, connected to D-100 highways, are connected to the highway miles and miles and miles and miles before they head directly back. We promise our villages that we will make these intersections and these roads. Instead of supplying business machines, hoses, pipe supplies for the village chiefs who came to him for the needs of the village, the province's heads of government said, "Go to the mayors today, and come to them tomorrow." We're gonna pay for this. He works as if he were the mayor of the AKP, as if he were the mayor of the district, as if he were his staff. In our power, there will be no discrimination, no nepotism. For 12 years, the AKP's ruling Amasya has not paved the roads of our village, it's been crossed by patches. This year our peasants were forced to drink arsenic water. To the village of Amasya, the roads of our villages will be asphalted from nothing, and they will have clean drinking water. We, the Republican People's Party, promise: the Turkish farmer will buy the diesel at 2 TL, and all of Turkey's village roads will be paved again; all of Turkey's villages will be brought clean drinking water; we will reopen all the closed cities. We'll re-open the clinics in the villages, appoint paramedics, midwives. We're going to solve our students' dorms. We will complete the equipment that is missing from all our hospitals, appoint the missing doctors, and appoint our appointed teachers. We're going to give our Cemevs legal sanctuary status. We're going to create markets where the bonds aren't protests, checks aren't written. We'll provide jobs for our unemployed children. We promise: We will create a happy farmer, happy peasant, happy retired, happy officer, happy shopkeeper, happy teacher, a Turkey where everyone will be happy. I wish our budget to be good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0157par0536	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0158par0537	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0157par0538	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0158par0539	I'd like to put it on the record. The previous speaker, Mr. Erkan Akçay, in particular, expressed a dialogue between Mr. Transport Minister Lütfi Elvan and the Chairman of the Court. At times, he made a very unjust and unsubstantiated claim that the law would be violated if necessary. In this regard, both our Minister, Mr. Lütfi Elvan and the president of the Court have made statements denying this; one. Secondly, they've already started the legal process on this issue. I want to express it. Again, Mr. Speaker, thanks to you, of course, they expressed what they would do in the rule of a utopian CHP. I'm talking about public opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0159par0543	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0160par0544	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0159par0545	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0160par0546	Sir, now, once, Mr. Aydın took the promise, he gave a speech on another matter, and then taunted us with a statement called "Utopic CHP's power." I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0159par0548	Yes, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0161par0550	I just said, "Give it to the public."
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0162par0553	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Mr. Ramis Topal, gave a nice speech here, counting one by one what issues the government is incapable of. He told all of the problems of agriculture, of Amasya, of the problems of agriculture, of Amasya, until the need for the land road of Amasya, and said, "We will do what the government cannot do in the rule of the People's Party of the Republic." Why is this bothering you? So you're saying it's like it can't be done.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0161par0554	No, I don't think the CHP has a strong chance of being in power...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0162par0555	Now, we have 330,000 teachers waiting for the appointment. Look, these are waiting for the appointment. Every day, on social media, in newspapers, on TV, these young people are sending messages to all of us, with no party distinctions. Mr. Ramis Topal says there will be no more teachers waiting for the appointment in the Republican People's Party. And you call it the utopic CHP power. I understand this: I mean, it's not going to happen in our power if the teachers waiting to be appointed don't wait in vain. But I promise the teachers who are waiting for the appointment from here, on behalf of the Republican People's Party: really, there will be no more teachers waiting for the appointment of the Republican People's Party, and there will be no more teachers, no more teachers, no more children, no more students. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0163par0559	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Van MP Özdal Threeer... On behalf of your person, you have a request, and I'm putting them both together at your request. Here you go, 15 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0568	Dear friends, I salute you on behalf of our group and myself. We also promise that during the rule of the People's Democratic Party, there will be no more teachers without appointment and no more students without a class.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0165par0571	I have never-ending herds in my mountains that don't exist!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0572	You've had the thrill of being in power, of course, but I wish you could have had the responsibility as much as you've had the excitement, the enthusiasm, the pleasure. The responsibility to power, you know, when you're trying to become power, when you're trying to become power, we're going to be representatives of the justice of Hazreti Omar. Here, we're going to defend the rights of this. Here, we're going to defend the rights of this. The student who goes to school at 5:00 a.m. in the morning is unhappy, the people who have died in an earthquake, the people who are unhappy, the people who have fallen into a cave-in, the people who have to live on the mines, the people who are unhappy, the teachers who are unhappy, the health workers who are unhappy, the soldiers who are unhappy, the police who are not happy, the children who are hit by the police don't have a chance to be unhappy. Now, when finance is being discussed in a country like this, there's no need to say that the budget's income-go balance, the budget's billions of figures make the citizens happy, that the United Nations have come and praised the AFAD, sir, saying, "There's no need to lose their responsibility." Mr. Secretary, if the United Nations hadn't given you a medal, we would have said: "The blind, the deaf; they're heavy." There are 14,000 people in the AFAD of 2 million people, 200,000, 400,000 people. No matter what kind of camp you call them, those kids, those people, they're not even allowed to go and see if their standards of living are in the right direction or not. That's what we're asking as MPs, what's being tried to hide? In Turkey, look, numbers sometimes seem insignificant. I've just stated in my speech that 3,600, nearly 4,000 people have drowned in the sea to escape this country, so he'd rather die than stay here. You empathize...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0166par0576	He's going to Europe...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0577	If E is going to Europe, this country, my brother, wait. There are 10,000 containers in the van. Stay in these containers, we can't accommodate you, but at least let's cover your travel expenses, and go safely to Europe. Let a civilized service be offered. But because he's going to Europe... Please, look, there are some things...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0167par0579	Does Europe accept?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0168par0580	Is Europe buying? Is he getting visas? How does he get it?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0581	If you have any opinions on this matter, Congressman, please take a seat on the stand. Let us listen to your precious ideas, and let the people hear them. Let the people know what we're saying, what you're saying. There's no point in pointing your hand at me from a distance. If you have any criticism about it, you come in, you talk on the stand. Dear friends, look, we're congressmen, and if we're responsible for the MP, we have a responsibility to defend everyone's rights, whether they vote or not. Now, 52 percent people voted for you, so they made a mistake? Let no one be questioned about corruption, theft, or accountability; let people die running away on ships to Europe; let the soldiers kill people; let the police kill people; let the soldiers not be trained in schools, not appointed teachers, not appointed medics; let the minister's children turn the corner; let them increase the minimum wage; let them work for eight hours; let the ministers work for a minimum wage; let them work for a thousand people's wages; of course, they didn't vote for a watch. Of course, you may speak freely with this 52 percent vote guarantee, but the world is not even left to Sultan Süleyman. The world is not even left to Sultan Süleyman. I mean, some things we just... you think you're doing everything right, you're doing everything right, you've done everything right, you've done all kinds of service, and we're just here because we're jealous of power, and you're trying to make it sound like we're talking here. Of course, we don't have as many TVs as you do. In fact, in these 12 years, you've all seen how much pressure is put on the employees of the free press that we can express ourselves. There's no other area that we can express ourselves to, and we're using this democratic right, and unfortunately, even when you're using it, you've got a high tolerance. Now, it is said that the Court's reports have not been disclosed, that they have been kept out of parliamentary control. In this case, no, if you're not in charge of this claim, Mr. President will request the Court's reports and have our Parliamentary Clerk read them to the entire General Assembly. What report did the Court hold, what are these reports, what issues are involved, what criticisms are involved, and we will sit and listen without comment. No, sir, this was in the Court report, not this one. There's no need to argue. Doesn't the Court operate on behalf of Parliament? Let him bring in his audit activity, let him read it in the General Assembly, or let him listen, or let him put it in pamphlets, in front of all the MPs -- we demand such a thing from our Parliament -- and let everyone learn from those brochures what the Court said. Now, the best thing the AKP can do during nearly 13 years of power is to pretend that the bad things it's done are good. Of course, there's been a lot of preparation for this, a lot of media accounts. What groups were close to who, when they bought the newspaper, when they bought the TV channel, what TV channel was sold to who, when they were sold to, and what publishing policy they started, and if we look at them, we can actually do what the government has done with its greatest preparation for power through the media field. Now, you tell me the right thing, the best thing, where the journalists gather around, there's no press responsibility... look, look at the podiums. Whenever there's an event that makes the House look different, they run right out of there, snap, snap, snap, snap. There's a media game going on to discredit the Regents. Have you noticed that the representatives of the press agencies sometimes ignore the MPs, and they wander the halls, doing what they want, doing what they want. How many media outlets do healthy news about the country's future, and how many of them have been given healthy economic support? None of it. But the building that was subjected to pressures today, again, has benefited from billions of dollars' worth of incentives with the support of this government. They were partners then. But that's what power is like, one day you call someone your brother, and then you become his mortal enemy. Why? That's power. Here, we need to focus on this economic phenomenon. That's why we're not so big on power. We, in Turkey, are for the development of democracy, for the progress of democracy, to act as a spokesman for rights, to act as a democratic opposition force. We're not saying that we should be in charge, we should be in power, we should be in power, we should do what we say, everybody, we should be in control of everything. We say, let it be right, let it be right for the people. That's why we don't dream of power. Of course, it should be the main programme for political parties to come to power. I will not criticize the CHP, or the CHP, or the AKP, for their efforts to gain power in this matter, nor do I have that right. Our program is to aim for power, too, but let's be in power, let's control everything, not ambition. If we can convince the public... but instead of convincing the people in the country, you're trying to discipline them with poverty, my friends. A lot of people vote because they have to, and you all know it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0169par0588	Yeah, you too.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0589	I'm telling all the friends who voted for us out of necessity, no one -- you think so, I don't think so -- please don't let anyone vote for HDP because of the obligation to vote freely. You too get on this stand, AKP, please don't let anyone vote for us because of necessity. If you can say so, the bench is here. You can't.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0170par0590	We'll say it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0591	You can't.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0170par0592	Yeah, it's funny...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0164par0593	If you see our injustice, do not vote for us. I have the courage to say so. If you see our injustice, do not vote. If you can say so, the bench is here. So, before the political debate, you're saying in Congress... Sometimes when there's something about religion, it's like religion is somebody's property, like no one can say anything, like it's a monopoly, like he's judging someone. We respect the fundamental existence of different religions, ideas, freedom of faith. But here, what does budget mean? The budget is not just math, it's the account, it's the right. What is one of the most fundamental concepts of highly demagogued, abused Islamic religion? It's the truth. Of the 99 names mentioned by God, his first name is Hakk. What will happen if he performs the prayer of the thousands who do not respect him, three hundred sixty-five days, not a month, but three hundred sixty-five days, twelve months? That's why they tell you to serve Hakk. So, we're not doing religious demagogues, we're not going to do that, and we're never going to, and we're not going to, but we're here, look, if we can make a mutual decision, put it right. You raise the minimum wage 500 per cent, if we say yes to the AKP, it is right. If we don't vote, then come and criticize, but let the companies of Europe, of the world, of Pennsylvania come and make 500 billion dollars. If you say no, of course we will say no. Give the officer a 200 percent raise, and if we object to the AKP... we will say we won't, do it, and the officers will be pleased with you, and we won't vote against it. If we don't congratulate you, if we don't get on this stand and applaud you, we don't know anything, believe me, we will do it, I say it for myself, and I vouch for my friends because I know their feelings, and I know their thoughts. We support every government in this country that takes measures to prevent children from dying, whether it's the AKP, whether it's the CHP, whether it's MHP, whether it's the people in this country, whether it's the people in this country, whether it's the children's rights, the rights to education, the rights to health care, we support any government in this country that measures the refugees not to drown in the sea while they're running to Europe, but we support every government in this country. As opposition, we've already taken responsibility for such a task. I hope he gets it. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0171par0598	Thank you, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0172par0599	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0171par0600	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0172par0601	Mr. President, the speaker said in his speech that the AK PARTI Group's greatest virtue first expressed every wrong as if it had done it so correctly, and that he should come and express some things on the stand. I'd like to take the floor, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0173par0603	Mr. President, this is a good thing.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0174par0604	Yeah, that's a criticism. It's not a tease, it's a criticism.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0175par0605	We'd all like your word on that, Mr. President. What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0176par0606	I mean, there's so much more to it, I've made the brief, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0177par0607	Here you are, Mr. Aydın. Don't let the new tease get in the way.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0178par0609	Mr. President, whatever they're objecting to, I don't think they did everything wrong in the first place.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0177par0610	So when you did it wrong, you said it was true. You said it was true, for him. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0179par0614	Mr. Ozdal, though, said to make a statement. So there's no need to express things now. Our people already know very well who you're voting for out of necessity, and I have nothing to say to that. Second of all, look, we're twisting things. Turkey is trying to create a perception that people are fleeing because of the tribulation in Turkey. He's using the escape as a transit pass, not a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. Look, it's clear how they escaped to Italy through Africa, what dramas happened. From Mexico to America, it is the same. It happens in many places, and there may be people here who use Turkey as a route from outside, perhaps other countries of the Middle East, or Africa, or Afghanistan. Of course, they are fleeing because of problems in their own country, not as if there were economic difficulties in Turkey or something else in Turkey. That's one. Second, the number of Syrian refugees sheltered in the whole of Europe is about 120,000. We've only come close to 120,000 Syrians in our Kilis province. You think it's like a Nazi camp, could it be such a cruel approach? Look, compared to national income, Turkey is the most foreign aiding country in the world, compared to national income. $4.5 billion only aided the Syrians in the Republic of Turkey. And do you know how much help the entire international community has given in total? The entire world's aid is $265 million. Only Turkey has given 4.5 billion aid to nearly 2 million Syrians, for God's sake! Let's be careful when we say things. Of course, there have been people on this bench who have made a lot of promises in the past and in the past. There's been two key holders, there's been people calling it a house, there's been people calling it a car, there's been people saying everyone's gonna get what they want, but that's not how the government is run. The government has a certain understanding of governance, its economic resources are clear. With these scarce resources, what's the best way to govern, that's what the AK PARTI government shows. How do we increase the well-being of our people, how do we talk about democratization steps, how do we do these reforms, how do we do these reforms, what can we do in terms of basic freedoms? The steps we've taken from yesterday to today are evident that in every nine elections, these people willingly place their hand and seal on the AK PARTY. He's not even worried about that.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0180par0620	Ya, it's obvious what you did yesterday, what you did yesterday in Ankara.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0179par0621	We don't force millions into those rallies.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0181par0622	Nine choices, nine buttons!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0179par0623	Millions don't come to those rallies by force, they don't come with money. Without that in people's hearts, this wouldn't happen. And the AK PARTI, and Erdogan and Ahmet Davutoglu, first and foremost, built the throne in those people's hearts, and entered into those people's hearts. He lived like me. He said, "Our people think like me, one of the people." He said, and that gave him confidence.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0182par0625	At the palace? Bravo, Ahmet!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0181par0626	Nine buttons! He's been the Olympic champion nine times.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0179par0627	So with that confidence, with that stability, we've been negotiating 13 election budgets, 13 budgets so far.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0182par0628	Bravo, Ahmet! Everyone's in the palace, you built these rooms for him, didn't you?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0179par0629	It's been said all the time in 13 budgets, but our people said it was futile. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0183par0632	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0184par0633	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0185par0634	Nine Olympic champions, nine buttons!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0186par0635	So he lives like me. They said he lives like me. How many rooms is that palace?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0187par0636	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0188par0638	Mr. President, we all have the responsibility to give the right information about the fate of our country and the country, but he said I'm twisting the facts. I'd like to make a statement by stating that I'm not twisting the truth and that it's a taunt, that it's an invalid taunt, to pass on the right information.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0187par0639	Here you go, Mr. Threeer. Please don't give me any more taunts.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0189par0641	I mean, the public will appreciate it. If everything Mr. Hatti says is true, our people will appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0187par0642	Now, you've twisted the truth. You said. And he says, "You're saying it wrong."
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0189par0643	No, he said it, we said it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0187par0644	Don't let any more taunts get in the way. I promise you, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0190par0647	We're all in Congress responsible for telling the truth about people, about social facts, abstract concepts, maybe we can make relativistic assessments, personal assessments, but we don't have the chance to distort things that can be given statistically in terms of social reality. Now, everyone knows that over 2 million Syrian Kurds, Arab, Turkmen, different ethnic groups have come to our country. What is the responsibility of our country, our state and our government? It is responsible for securing their right to live and maintaining their country's resources in a manner worthy of human dignity, and for providing them with settlements for those who wish to settle down in Turkey, and for transferring those who do not want to live here to other countries, and for protecting their safety, their dignity. How many people of 2 million people are now not protected by the Immigration Administration when we have such a responsibility? Why is it that the refugee law, where Turkey is on its side as part of the Geneva Convention, is not fully operational? Why is there some sort of complaint involved? If you keep 1,999,999 people from these 2 million people, naturally we have the right to ask what even one person is from the opposition, because it's a decent world. But it's not, it's not one person, it's one person, it's one and a half million out of two million people, and there's no telling what the outcome is, and there's no telling what...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0191par0649	Yeah, you're such liars!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0190par0650	You're not my contact.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0192par0651	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0193par0652	Please go on, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0190par0653	Please be careful with your language. Now, we're asking in opposition: Where did these people go? How do these people live? What do these people eat? What are these people drinking? How do these people get treatment? It's the government's responsibility. What did you do to protect your right to live? Here, 400,000 people from Kobani have come, we are protecting 14,000 people, 2 million have come, 500,000... 1.5 million people, we ask. I think it's pretty obvious who's twisting it. We don't insult anyone, we don't oppress anyone, but don't let it mean that when we're subjected to anyone's insults and persecution, we'll be unresponsive. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0194par0657	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. On behalf of her person, Diyarbakır MP Friday is sincere. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0665	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are busy stirring up the country while the MPs from the EC PARTI are elected and salted, paying the rights of their salary from the Parliament, while they should be working. I'm putting an empty salt shaker on the council stand to protest them. [[Diyarbakir MP Friday İnner to put saltpots on the bench]] Our budget is a budget that can't hear, can't see, can't see, whose hearts are sealed, can't account, can't understand. The 2015 budget is a budget in which the whites who fight the struggle for freedom of human dignity teach the world geography of humanity. Only those in your heart, in your heart, in your gaze can see this budget. This is a budget where the account of all the oppressed has been asked from Palestine to Arakana, Myanmar to Syria, Egypt to East Turkistan. Our budget is a budget for the account of the oppressed, the Kurds murdered in Syria by the cruel Esed. Our budget is a budget that welcomes the oppressed without segregation of religion, language, race and sects, where we have had 2 million refugees for three years. There's heart, heart, heart, manliness in this budget.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0196par0670	There's salt in the budget, salt.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0671	In this budget, the look of Sultan Mehmet Mehmet Mehmet, Salahaddin-i Ayyubî Al-Kordi, the heart of Halid bin Velîd, the embrace of Mevlana, the faith of Pir Sultan Abdal's Hakmad Ali, the love of Yunus Emre, the dream of the land of the Cahit Sitkı Tarancı, Sezai Karakoc, they do not understand; they do not understand.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0197par0672	Tofiq Fikret has the Khan's Marauder.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0673	There's no terror, no weapons, no blood, no tears, nothing in this budget. In this budget, there is an account of the unsolved murders signed by Hashishis and the Hashishis, who have been sitting on the laps of bosses in Pennsylvania for thirty years, fed by the blood of brothers and sisters, and which the Hashishis signed along with the PKK. But you don't understand.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0198par0674	Half of you are Hashishis.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0199par0675	You haven't figured it out in 12 years.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0676	This budget is a budget for freedom fighters to account for those who want to condemn the country to the past. It is a budget for those who view their profession as Ottomans and who are proud of it, who work day and night to re-sign history, who consider their ads as Marxists. Those who claim our values, our culture, our history, those who are disturbed by the Ottomans...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0200par0679	This budget is for those who wear 700 billion watches...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0680	...is a budget where those who slaughtered their grandfathers answer to those who follow their path. Don't bother.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0200par0681	This budget is for those who have a counting machine in their rooms...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0682	This is a budget for those who begin the day with the voice of God, who say, "God is great," and say, "Allahmanirrahim" and "Allah is great." How can I lie down when my neighbor is hungry?" It is a budget for those who say, "Let me live for a thousand years." Our budget is a budget for Kurdish and Turkish Baastians to account for religion and language nationalism to those who view the country as just east and west.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0201par0684	You're doing it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0685	Those who have not seen the 1000-odd White House in the U.S., who have not seen the 1.3 billion euros spent on the German intelligence building...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0686	They have money, what's wrong with you? You borrowed it. You win, you spend.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0687	...who have not seen the 120 billion damage done to this country by extraterrestrials, nuclear power plants, double roads, marmara, the third bridge...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0688	Those who don't see the safes, those who don't see the clocks...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0689	...blinds who don't see colleges, airports, dams, remember, people see you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0690	Those who don't see the coat hangers, the shoeboxes...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0203par0691	People see you, you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0692	We take our power from God and the people, not from the places and the palaces.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0693	Those who don't see chocolate cans...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0195par0694	The weak and the cowards take their power from authorities and palaces. Therefore, those who fear palaces are the ones who will change in office. They give honor to the authorities and palaces who trample on their souls...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0695	You're right.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0204par0696	You're so right.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0202par0697	Bravo! Bravo.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0205par0699	...like our President and Prime Minister. The point is that those who receive honor from the authorities can't and won't accept the honor of the office.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0206par0702	Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0205par0703	It's about jealousy, not being a man, man. The point is, you can't stomach the growth of the country.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0207par0704	The point is not to tolerate thieves! Men are not allowed to steal!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0205par0705	The point is, folks, you don't respect your choice. The point is, you don't see the Ottomans as an apocalypse.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0207par0706	Of course not.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0205par0707	In short, it's not about the palace, it's about the mission and the vision.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0208par0708	In your mouth, Ataturk. In your mouth, Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0205par0709	You know what the point is, guys? It's the power of the chosen. I wish our 2015 budget to bring blessings to the new Turkey, a new civilization, with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0209par0712	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0210par0713	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0209par0714	Congressmans, I'd like to make one thing clear.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0211par0715	Mr. President, there are only 132 rooms in the White House.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0209par0716	One moment, Mr. Erdemir, I'd like to say something, if I may. Here, you all know that there's some sort of liability to the bench. Everyone on the stand can make all the criticism, provided they don't say mean and hurtful things. But please, under this roof, we can't have lawmakers being compared to saltshares. I'm saying that, frankly, I don't think it's appropriate, so I'm calling it a desecration against all lawmakers here. Please, I need your attention. Pick him up, please.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0212par0718	Have them return it to him, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0209par0719	Now we're going to question-answer. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0213par0721	Mr. Secretary, in retirement, there are those who live to the age of retirement when our citizens are dealing with a lot of problems, while they are forced into heavy living conditions. There are also those who can't retire because of their age and lack of bonus days. The age of retirement of those who started before 1999 was extended between three and ten years, with the implementation of a gradual transition and gradual age requirement. In this sense, a large number of our citizens, according to the rights on the day they started work, cannot retire due to age requirement or receive pension if they are unemployed. Will you make an effort to repair these sacrifices, will you be able to work through the new legislature?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0209par0722	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0214par0724	Thank you, Mr. President. I also honor the anniversary of the death of Colonel Ali Tatar. I know today is a no because of the anniversary of his death. It is a great shame in power that a highly valued officer of the Turkish Armed Forces is driven to suicide by lies, slander and oppression. It is a contradiction that those who were the prosecutors of Ergenekon yesterday became democrats today. Kuddusi Okkır, Ali Tatar, Murat Özenalp were forged and dragged to their deaths by defeating their rights in person. The process that led Ali Tatar to his death was at the end of the oppressive process of the AKP. What kind of conscience and justice is being held now for Commander Ali Tatar and those who died because of these cases, who wanted to be implicated in the illegal Ergenekon case? The government has caused many people and Turkish Armed Forces to be weakened and hit by these illegal cases. When quarreling with his traveling companions today, they say that everything they call "deep" in the past is a fake. Who will answer for the intellectuals, soldiers, journalists, doctors, many of our citizens who have been in prison for years with false evidence? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0215par0727	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0216par0729	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'm going to repeat my question just now, my second question. This 2013 exact account initially went to 397, and there was a budget, 362 incomes, 34 deficits, but in the end, this budget deficit came to 19 or more billion. What kind of budget would be available when these 38 billion back-up grants added to the backup funds stated in the Court's report, adding 38 billion over nine-odd grants? Can you get the experts to do this work, please? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0217par0732	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0218par0734	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Turkey and Georgia are two friendly countries. Especially in my constituency, the Sarp Border Gate strengthens friendship between the two countries. Now, Turkey is one of the world's 20 largest economies, and we're always talking about pride. When compared with Georgia and Turkey, there is a huge gap both in terms of gross national product and in terms of national income per capita. Despite all this, I'm a law school graduate, a lawyer, but my economics class was not good, I want to know from you -- in 2000, when a Turkish citizen passed from Sarp Border Gate to Georgia, he was paying $100, taking 120 from their currency, Mr. Secretary. I mean, it's their currency, taking the 120s. Now, the same Turkish citizen passes through the Georgia Gate, pays 100 liras, takes the 79s. If we're the world's largest economy, we're one of the largest economies -- there's no economy in Georgia, not industrial land -- why is our money losing value, Mr. Minister? So if you explain this, I'll be really informed, too, when I return to Artvin, that's why it happens to my people, to my citizens. I say, "Mr. Minister, I'll convince them." Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0219par0737	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0220par0739	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, among the world's 500 most valuable brands, unfortunately, Turkey doesn't have a single brand. In the first 500, Malaysia has 1, Saudi Arabia has 2, Brazil has 5, India has 6 brands, Turkey has 0. Unfortunately, the total value of Turkey's 100 most valuable brands does not add up to a Toyota, nor does a Coca-Cola. The TURQUEALTY programme, which aims to create ten world brands in ten years, has unfortunately failed to get a single brand from 2004 to today. Mr. Secretary, why hasn't your government succeeded in producing the world brand ecosystem? Where do you think you've been? What would you do differently if you came back today? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0221par0743	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0745	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Akar, of course, you have to fulfill two conditions to retire, so our laws require it. One, you're going to fill the number of bonus days; two, you're going to hit the age. Age is very basic in the world, the prerequisite of retirement. If you remember yesterday, I mentioned it again, if I remember correctly, in the 34 countries in OECD, I remember that it's over 65 years of age and above, in just a few countries, between 3 and 4 countries, 60 and 65. Under it, the only country that allows retirement is still only Turkey and only Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0223par0747	But the living conditions are guaranteed, so let me know.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0748	However, there is talk of a matter of age. So, I don't see any arrangement in this regard, when the already-ready social security system is facing such a huge deficit of funding. Mr. Akova, of course whoever has done injustice to our intellectuals, our soldiers, our journalists must answer for it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0224par0750	Minister, you know we have MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0751	Including our MPs. Mr. Kusoglu, now, having a backup grant doesn't mean spending increase. Now, here's the thing, I've given you a very detailed number in the Plan and Budget Commission, and I've explained it, and I've tried to explain it here. Look, the law has changed over the year. Because of the law, I had to transfer the grant of a ministry to another ministry because responsibility has been changed. Now, when you do that, the budget law gives you authority, but how does it give you authority? It says: "First you will put it in reserve, then you will take it into the ministry. " Thus, these large figures in the reserve do not really mean an expense. What would happen if there was already a budgetary spending? There's gotta be a lot of budget deficits. Let's say the budget deficit remained low -- because the revenues remained high -- in terms of supplementary funding there, and the only pen in spending on the budget is the most important pen investment spending. I gave you the details of all of this, it's subject to the Court's audit. Oh, well, I respect your desire. I mean, if this government doesn't get these powers, with this budget law -- which went that way in 2015 -- if it came here instead, and brought a budget, of course, that's a method, but, like I said, all of what we're doing is in accordance with budget law, it's all done in accordance with budget law, it's subject to court control, and you know that very well. Georgia is a friendly country, of course. Let's think about how you're going to explain it. Look, go to the beginning of 2000, go to 1999, 2000, Europe, if you remember, to the euro. At the time, almost a dollar/avro went under a dry timer, but assume one, for a moment. If you remember at one time, the 1,37 have come up to 1.4. I mean, the vast American economy, the world's largest economy, is worth dollars, almost 30 to 40 percent of the euro, right? It's hard to establish a corrosion between greatness and the value of currency, loss of value, it's more related to the economic performance that was predicted at the time, it's related to interest differences, it's related to risk premiums, it's even related to politics. For example, right now, the Japanese are making a lot of money, and they're trying to make the Japanese New lose value, and they're trying to create inflation. It's called abenomics. Maybe we have friends following closely. However, unfortunately, Japan is still in this state, as you can see at work. Mr. Erdemir, the issue of the brand is really important because when you become a brand, you get a high profit margin, you make more money, it's like this everywhere. In Turkey, of course, it is related to the quality of human capital. This is about the deepening of the capital market, associated with ecosystems. Let's say we bring the concept of the angel investor in 2003, if there was more work today, for example, to look back, for example, in terms of venture capital a long time ago... but all these incentives came, we brought them, but it happened in the last few years. It takes time for the markets to deepen. It's also a matter of culture. It's also, as I said, related to the way we do RD. In fact, the government is doing a lot of RD spending, but this, unfortunately, has not yet yielded the desired results.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0225par0757	Did you answer the questions, sir? Or...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0758	If you'll just give me one more minute...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0225par0759	One more minute... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0761	So, in fact, our RD spending is not far from Europe, the national income rate of state-run RD spending. Our companies...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0226par0762	Come on, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0222par0763	It's not, guys. Look, I'm talking about the government, I'm not talking about the country, I'm talking about the public, so I know what I'm talking about. We need to encourage the private sector more to the RD, and not only that part of RD, but also the part of the development of the RD. There's a lot of work going on here. It's gonna take some time. I think Turkish Airlines has become an important brand. Maybe not in the first 100, not in the first 500, but really, in the next year, it will probably become the largest carrier in Europe, and in the last three or four years, the best airline in quality is chosen. I believe we'll go to that point. TurkCELL, I mean, maybe naming it isn't right, I'm sorry, I've entered names, but... I mean, slowly, some Turkish firms are actually getting to the point in the world league, and colleges are coming. We'll make it, I hope.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit02spe0227par0767	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. It's 5:00. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0227par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission and the government are in place. MADDE 5- (1), as shown in the drafts on state debt as of the end of 2013; A) 403,006,952,902.24 Turkish Lira medium and long-term state domestic debt, B) 184.013.011.787.62 Turkish Lira State foreign debt, C) 31,213,830,915,26 Turkish lira guaranteed loans, available. Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0228par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, we're almost at the end of budget negotiations. Many issues have been addressed on this bench for days, and many issues related to the budget have been raised. But, in my opinion, there was something that was left incomplete, even though we needed to stay on it for much longer. This is about the needs of asylum seekers who fled the violence of ISIS gangs from Shengal to Kobani to Turkey. As of August 3, 2014, the number of Şengalli Ezidis entered Turkey via Habur, Yekmal and Roboski was known as around 30,000 because of the massacre and occupation in Şengal. As of September 15th, ISIS made its way to Turkey through Suruç, leaving about 200,000 Kobanili cantons, which were concentrated on the Canton of Kobani and faced the threat of massacre by increasing attacks. In total, around 230 thousand populations settled in Kurdish provinces. Our municipalities in the region and sensitive NGOs have created relief coordination centers, mobilising all their resources to meet the needs of asylum seekers, making the necessary effort to systematically and coordinate relief efforts. The most basic vital needs, such as food, clothing, medicine, housing, were provided to people who migrated and provided assistance for those who emigrated as a result of calls for sensitivity to Turkey and the international public at this point. As a result of the organised work of humanitarian aid organizations and co-ordination centers in the region, it has also been established in Mardin, Mardin, Kızıltepe, Batman, Siirt, Adıyaman, Viranşehir, Diyarbaç, Diyarbakır and Suruç, and other areas of decent housing and other areas. However, there has been no long-term and comprehensive policy for the government for people who migrated to the region, except for the municipalities and the institutions involved in volunteer relief efforts. Although the ruling spokespersons say they welcome refugees, as reported by NGOs, very few of them remain in the AFAD camps. There are only 2,840 Shengalli in the AFAD camp, which is responsible for the central government, while the number of Ezidis from Shengal residents in seven counties is up to 20,000. A similar situation applies to Kobanili refugees, whose number is several times greater. Although about 200,000 Kobanili migrated to Turkey, including about 120,000 Suruç and around it, only 6,120 remain in the AFAD camps. The 5th article, which I have promised, has been placed under the administration of the Finance Ministry budget, where the Finance Ministry can have backup funds in its arrangements to be transferred when necessary for unscheduled services in the budget, and is authorized by the Minister of Finance to transfer from these funds. Dear lawmakers, in this context, it is wise to ask again the question that has been repeatedly expressed by our party. How much has your government budgeted for more than 230 thousand immigrants from Kobani and Shengal? Is your government working to provide for the basic and urgent needs of Ezidi refugees outside the AFAD camps, such as food, winter clothes, health supplies, hygiene kits? The government leaves municipalities and sensitive institutions running relief work alone at the point of meeting needs, and does not transfer additional funds to co-ordinators. The limited resources and powers of the municipalities in particular are not enough to satisfy the needs of refugees, as winter conditions are heavy. Along with these, the government must clarify some issues. There are many allegations that similar and cash contributions from foreign institutions cannot be delivered to refugees outside the AFAD camps. I'd like to talk to the press last week. The 20m euros, which were sent to Turkey by the European Union for the use of Kobanili and Shengali refugees, were not delivered to war victims of 58m 354,000 Turkish liras. European Commission officials have responded to the report by the Southeast Anatolian Councils Association, and it appears that 20m euros have been earmarked to Turkey for the housing, food and basic care services of the victims, as well as to the European Union's President of Turkey's Delegation and Minister of the European Union, Mr. Volcan Bozkır. The government must inform the public as to where and how the $58,345,000 of aid has been used by the government, which has made an urgent statement on the matter. Hundreds of thousands of people resist the winter cold, and it's a wonder where thousands of babies and children are spending such a large amount of help fighting hard to survive. This number is seen to be quite large for the needs of those who remain in the AFAD camps alone. Another point is that it's about the same help from abroad. Although Suruç and around 120,000 Kobani remain, Şanlıurfa Metropolitan Municipality has virtually no support for Suruç's villages and neighborhoods, as well as for those who remain in the five tent cities here. In addition, it is also known that almost 120,000 refugees from the Metropolitan Municipality of Suruç, a municipality of Suruç, who has no authority from the municipality of Suruç, who are from abroad, have received these assistance from customs and have stayed outside the AFAD. In talks with state officials, many international institutions have been seen to be referred there as the only centre for refugees in the region, where they are not even aware of the conditions of others. In other cases, three truckloads of help sent from Germany are being held at the German consulate and tried to be directed by the State Department to the AFAD camp. As it turns out, the political power has not embraced the people from Shengal and Kobani, but has abandoned them to its fate. As shown in the press two days ago, the government, which has not provided any assistance to refugees, has also made it difficult for municipalities working in the region and has put many obstacles against them. The construction of the 10,000-strong tent city, which was founded by Suruç Municipality to ensure the better housing of the Kobanis in the neighborhoods and villages, was halted by the governorship of the city, which nearly ended infrastructure work. The governor's office has not informed the authorities of any official writing, but the officers who arrived in the tent city have forced the workers inside to stop the work of the governorship. In front of efforts to meet the need for shelter, which is the most urgent of cold winter conditions, the opposition of the representative of the central government demonstrates a malicious approach, just as aid is directed only to the AFAD camp. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0229par0024	Thank you, Mr. Rider. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0230par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I began my speech... in my previous speech, I referred to the statements of Mr. Nurettin Canikli, and then I spoke here a phrase that Mr. Lütfi Elvin, the current Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, was alleged to have spoken. Now, I don't want to repeat that sentence, but I'm saying it in terms of clarity. The claim was: "We can act against the law. Cover for us sometimes. What he told the members of the Court. After this conversation, the Minister of Transport called me and made it very clear that he had not made such a speech. I, too, respect the Minister's opinion and believe he did not make such a statement. He also stated that he started the legal process. Hopefully, when Turkey comes to the Grand National Assembly's General Assembly, it'll make a more controversial statement. That's all right, that's how we understood it, but Mr. Canikli's words have been spoken and still remain in the middle since last year. The fact that he did not say so does not change the view and attitude of the Justice and Development Party's government regarding the Court, nor does it change our view of power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one thing I'd like to focus on is the overfund spending. Under Article 5018 of Law No. 5018, the National Ministry of Defence, the General Command and the Coast Guard are authorized to spend up to 15 per cent of the initial grant in the extraordinary cases of military preparation by the general or partial mobilisation, declaration of war or by the Council of Ministers. Again, public administrations in Law 5018 can't spend more than their budgets. The upload period is limited to the fiscal year. There are provisions, such as provisions. In 2013, it was the opposite of law enforcement. Overpaid expenses have been totaled at $9 billion,300m for general and private budgetary administrations. Almost all of the overhead costs for general budgetary administrations are from the Ministry of National Education. For public administrations under the general budget, 9 billion is 284 million, and the Ministry of National Education has a budget of 9 billion 233 million Turkish liras. Overpayments are related to supplementary grants in Article (3) of Article 4 of the 2013 Centre Management Computation Act. According to this, these expenses are in accordance with Articles 20, 26, 31, and 70, and Article 8 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law, and Article 49 (e) of the Law (e) framework of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In practice, this means that parliament's numerical majority will undermine its budgetary rights. By ignoring the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it was I who did it. He considers it his right to spend with understanding. As a result, another issue concerns the use of reserve funds, the valued lawmakers. The government's application of subsidized grants is practically ignored. Article 23 of Law No. 5018, titled "Responsible funds," limited to 2% of the general budget grants for subsidisation. The Minister of Finance is the sole responsibility for the extra funding transfers. When we look for 2013, 948 million liras are initially detected for backup funds. Transfers from the reserve funds are 35 billion 900 million Turkish liras. Moreover, 34.6 billion dollars of this amount is naturally transferred outside the Finance Ministry, transfers to other institutions. First of all, I'd like to point out that when Law 5018 responds to 2 per cent, it corresponds to 8.8 per cent of the overall budgetary administration's total allowance at the end of the year. Therefore, the government is operating here against the law. Secondly, according to Law 5018, the Finance Minister must declare in 15 days following the end of the year where these transactions were made. However, 34.6 billion liras are not reported to which institutions and grant pens. The budget and information released by the Financial Control General Directorate include only the initial grant, $948m. Otherwise, 35 million Turkish liras were transferred from where to where, to where? Mr. Secretary has to explain these things, but we see that these transfers are specifically sanctioned by explaining where they're being made. Let's not confuse any minds here, we're not asking for expenses, we're asking for transfers. You may not know how to spend it at this point, but we know the Finance Minister is aware of it, even if it's a dollar transfer. In the Commission talks, we aim to draft more transparent and understandable budgets for citizens, strengthening the relationship between the public source and the benefits provided for society. The statement has been expressed. Of course, we can't see transparency in these things, nor can we see a clear budget. As a result, there's no control, no transparency, no accountability, and there's an illegal and illegal increase in spending, and they can't be accounted for. I'm not talking to these thoughts here, I'm giving you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0231par0039	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hatay MP Refik Eryılmaz. Here you are, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0232par0043	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 5 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act, which we are discussing. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you the two events we've had in the last two days about the oppressive practices of the government that we face almost every day before entering the content of the clause. Thirty-six years have passed since the March massacre, which began on December 19, 1978 and continued until December 20, 1978, aimed directly at Alevi. The AKP government has once again shown its oppressive face at the anniversary of the Maras massacre as a black mark on our history. The Governorate of Kahramanmarash has declared that all press statements, march and actions to be banned due to the 36th anniversary of the Maraş events are prohibited. There is no freedom to massacre in the country, and there is no freedom to remember your martyrs. Turkey must clarify its future by cleaning up this shame in its past. As long as we don't face the pain, that pain will continue to bother us. We believe that we can wrap up the wound that Marash caused in our social memory with people who believe in democracy, human rights and freedom, equality. He believes that facing the massacres and finding the real perpetrators is necessary, and we see that in the event that Marash is forgotten, every threat to the safety of lives and property from different identities and beliefs will increase, and will continue. Despite all the oppression and bans, on the 36th anniversary of the Maras massacre, I now curse the killers once again, and ask for mercy on our people who were killed in the massacre. A second incident occurred yesterday, valued lawmakers. A press statement under the name "Laik Education and Respect for Work" was not acceptable to the education workers from different cities of Turkey. Before the press release has been started, without any warning, without going to the rally site, without warning, police have used excessive violence on the teachers, so close to the eyes of our teachers have been sprayed with gas, clubbed, and not enough, 100 teachers have been taken into custody. We witnessed these events yesterday. This is a very worrying situation for our country, for our country's democracy. In fact, this incident yesterday also gives us important clues as to how the AKP will operate democracy in the country from now on. Dear lawmakers, we know very well how budgets have been drawn up in the AKP's power in Turkey over the past 12 years, who it serves, who it provides and what it does not provide. We know that these budgets, drawn up in AKP's 12-year rule, were mainly built on rant, corruption and unlawfulness. So how did we come to this conclusion? In his speech on budget talks last year, Mr. President-General made a point, saying: "When we look at the government's expenditures over the past 12 years, you can't account for the enormous expenditures you've made in all of the republic's governments in the past fifty-six years since you came to power from 1946 to 2002. You can't account for the enormous expenses you've made. Not a single investment has been made that increases national income, contributes to the economy, creates employment. Between 1946 and 2002, the average growth rate was 4.7 per cent in fifty-six years. In 2008, however, national income was $10,444 per person, while in 2014 it was $10,537. According to this, the annual income per person in five years has only increased by $93. In contrast, we look at unemployment rates, 9.2 per cent in July 2013 and 10.4 per cent in July of this year. We don't count public goods, factories, ports, land, bridges, which are sold during your reign. We see that the budget does not sit on a realistic basis, and the 2015 budget is already estimated to be 21 billion more open, unless, as usual, this goal fails to reach 50-60 billion dollars, rather than expected. A continuous budget, growth imbalances, consumption-based economy, the terrible gap in the revenue distribution, the habit of taking taxes from consumption, chronic inflation, unemployment, exponential and external debt, terrible levels of the external economy, black holes and the lion's share of the budget. Deputies, the government boasts its budget for the Ministry of National Education. We see that 78 percent of the budget for 62 billion dollars will go to the expense of personnel. Clearly, it is not possible to give a qualified education with the remaining 22 percent. Assuming there are 300,000 teachers waiting to be appointed next, it is clear that this is not a cure for the educational community. Another thing we'd like to bring to your attention is increased military and security spending in the 2015 budget. A total of 51 billion and 883 million euros have been earmarked to the Ministry of Interior and National Defence and the Directorate of the National Defence. We don't know about the covered grant, so we don't take that into account. It is clear that this budget is not for the benefit of our democracy. On the contrary, it is clear that an important part of this defence budget will be used to suppress, intimidate, and crush the opposition. Turns out these coins will return to our people as gas bombs, TOMA, batons, pressure water, detention, violence, limb loss, and death. In fact, we can easily tell the terrorist groups fighting in Syria that will be spent on this defence budget, along with the training-dost policy that will soon be implemented. In addition, due to the wrong Syrian policy, budget spending in the last three and a half years is $6 billion, and we don't count the economic losses. I'd like to finally say that there's a statement made by U.S. State Department officials regarding the fact that the training-donat policy will be put into effect in March. Two days ago, the State Department issued a statement and said the training-donat policy could be implemented before March. We asked the ministers, "What is this training-dock policy? What will you train, what will you train, what will you do, who are they and where will you send them? We understand from news leaked to the press that the AKP will now train, arm, and arm the radical elements from Syria and other countries that have not been satisfied with the cost of the wrong Syrian policy, which it has implemented for three and a half years, to fight neighbouring countries. I warn the government from here that this decision is clearly against both international criminal law and the Turkish Penal Code, and Articles 7, 1, 3 and 4 of our Anti-Terror Law. I think there's a conspiracy against the government here. Tomorrow... the government has collaborated with terrorist groups, so you've entered the International Criminal Tribunal for your cooperation in such a dangerous way that even the International Court of Justice will need to be tried. We're warning the government about this, and we strongly recommend that they don't object to it. It's no joke, so we've been giving warnings about this for years, but they won't listen to us, so let's hope this doesn't go wrong. I hereby salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0233par0055	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. In the name of his personal name, Bursa MP Aykan Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0234par0059	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Council, and our valued citizens who are watching us on the screens. Yesterday was a historic day for the Republic of Turkey and Turkey's Grand National Assembly because for the first time in the history of the Republic, a speech that was almost a fascist manifesto could easily be voiced from this bench. Unfortunately, Mr. Sadik Yakut, who served yesterday, stood by this highly inappropriate speech that put the Constitution on hold and declared the majority authoritarian regime, the despotic regime, the one-man regime. We certainly have great respect for freedom of thought and expression. We certainly have great respect for the immunity of the bench, but we have no respect for the fascist politics that aims at democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms, the rule of law, the separation of powers. I'm sorry, but we have no respect for the delusions of one party on other parties, for one community to put pressure on another community, one despot to put pressure on citizens. As social Democrats in Hitler Germany, Mussolini in Italy, Franco in Spain, Salazar in Portugal, we have the same attitude towards fascist regimes in Turkey. After finishing the notes given to him by party officials yesterday at the General Assembly, a AKP MP, who we were surprised to learn was a law school graduate, began to express his heart's sincerest feelings and thoughts with open heart. Look, the AKP MP makes what confessions: I question the existence of the Constitutional Court on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0235par0062	Can't we question it?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0234par0063	I'm being asked. He says, he doesn't know. You can change the Constitutional Court, you can remove the Constitutional Court, but you can't ignore it while the Constitutional Court is in office. One MP, on this occasion, not only is he insinuating the Constitution, but he's not standing there, he says: I'm questioning the cold custody of the judicial system over the government. He wants a government free from the judiciary, which has an immunity, and then a single man starts building a dictatorship, he says: "We're going to ask those who aren't asked after this, and we're going to question those who aren't questioned, and we're going to talk about those who haven't been questioned. Our presidential palace, which will soon be fully in service, will be the center and heart of this country, this state. He will not ask anyone, nor will he receive permission from anyone. He makes his problem more clear so as not to be misunderstood, he says: "The state is building a building on a land, and he will not ask the judge or you. That's no state. The government has a will, not a piece of cake, but a will of the state. He admits that his main concern is not just to establish his own power, but to suppress the other parts he sees differently, the ones he despises, the ones he despises, the ones he doesn't see from him, and he says: "You will be uncomfortable, and you will be very uncomfortable from now on. You'll be uncomfortable so people will be comfortable. Only those who see their own party members as members of the nation, who see other party members, other political leaders outside the country, are actually the only separatists in this country. Aren't they the sons of this nation who are in love with the Republican People's Party? Aren't they the sons of this nation who aspire to the National Movement Party? Aren't they the sons of this nation who are in love with the People's Democratic Party? Aren't they the sons of this nation who have fallen in love with the parties that cannot be represented in this House because of the world's highest election dam? Those who divide this nation, those who divide this nation, and those who divide this nation, are the greatest separatist in this country. The biggest separatists in this country are the party states eager. The biggest separatists in this country are the ones who don't belong to us. The biggest separatists in this country don't see people who think differently, who bring criticism. The only separatists in this country are those who reject the principle of separation of powers in the Constitution, who say, "We answer to no one." I have a message for them from Spain: (...) There is no passage to fascism.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0236par0066	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0237par0067	When did people experience fascism? People know who brought fascism to life.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0238par0068	Mr. President, the orator spoke incorrectly about the conversation I made yesterday. I want a promise from the tease to fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0236par0069	You mean you didn't say those words like that?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0237par0070	It has a different meaning.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0238par0071	He took a different meaning to my words, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0239par0072	It was all in the report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0240par0073	He read the transcripts, but...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0241par0074	He made a comment, sir, a comment.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0240par0075	You're just saying that because it's not understood. Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0242par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to thank the clerk for giving me a chance to repeat some of the conversation I made here yesterday, thank you. But, I have to say, at first, when we were speaking here, the text was handed to him by the AK PARTY Group. In fact, this, your statement, is an approach that shows the Republican People's Party's perspective on us and the community. You see society with a passive structure, we see society as a factor. While we see society as a subject, you see it as an object, that's how you approach it. We never accept this style, this approach.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0243par0082	What makes you say that? What makes you say that? Blame it properly when you blame it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0242par0083	I'm going to leave the freedom of opinion here, the freedom of thought, the speech I made yesterday, to your discretion, to be too insufferable to even consider within the limits of endurance. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0244par0086	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0087	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0244par0088	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0089	Mr. President claimed that we saw society as an object and that we did not approach it within the limits of endurance. What we saw was Edilgen...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0244par0090	I promise you, Mr. Erdemir, but please don't make a fuss again. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, first and foremost, the seat of the High Assembly is, of course, a bench protected by the immunity of the bench. And again, freedom of thought and expression is a principle, a value, a belief that we consider sacred, and many of our party members have lost their lives for it. In this sense, of course, we will both defend the immunity of the bench and freedom of thought and expression, but that does not mean that, especially the MPs of the Republic of Turkey, that a bench that can be used as a threat to the citizens of Turkey, should be intimidated in a sense by the MPs of this great Assembly, in a sense, your opinion is of no importance, we are not going to ask you. The authority of this Assembly should be eliminated here by a member of parliament. There are various accusations against the Republican People's Party: to view society as an object. I'm sorry, but whoever sees objects when he looks at people, if he thinks about things, I believe they're the ones who only see green dollars when they look at life, they're the ones who see blue euros.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0246par0096	What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0247par0097	Yeah, what's that got to do with it? What's that got to do
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0098	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0247par0099	What's that got to do
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0248par0100	Gee, he's not telling you, brother, he's telling you he sees a man as an object.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0101	If you objectify life, if you look at life as an object, if you think of it as an object, then of course life is just material to you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0249par0102	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0103	Here, if you've noticed, we've said the basic rights and freedoms, we've said the freedomist democracy, we've said the pluralism. If these come to your mind, if they bring you any material, then you should know that the Republican People's Party is not the politics of things, it's the politics of values, it's the politics of principles.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0104	What values, what principles?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0105	He's doing politics of freedom, he's doing politics of democracy.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0106	Look at your history, look at the history of your principles...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0107	That's what we do.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0108	Look at the history of those principles, and you'll see in your history the steepness of despotism, dictatorship, fascism, your history!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0109	Because as in Spain, as in Portugal, as in Germany, we say, we will not give the gate as in Italy, we say,...... x).
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0110	You'll see him in a one-party chef phase!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0111	No passage to one man's dictatorship, no passage to palaces, no passage to sycophants.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0113	They're all in your history!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0114	This country will be ruled by the will of a nation, who sees each citizen as an equal citizen, embraces each citizen, doesn't exclude one human being, doesn't alter it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0250par0115	What happens in opera and ballrooms is first class, sandals are second class!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0245par0116	There's room for every party in that nation's will, room for every person. There's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out, there's no way out.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0251par0118	You don't talk cliche, cliché slogans!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0252par0119	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0253par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0252par0121	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0253par0122	Sir, in his orator talk, of course, to respond to the taunting, our group, in order to enshrined, you see green dollars. He said, "You see green dollars." He made other unjust accusations.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0254par0123	He didn't say you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0255par0124	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0256par0125	You said... you said...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0257par0126	Let's look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0256par0127	No, he said you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0258par0128	Now, of course, the MPs...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0259par0129	Mr. President, before you make your promise, you have the credit, and a ruling party MP has just said here that the Ottoman doesn't consider the Ottoman as an apothecary. He just told us that? I don't think he did. If he told us, I'd answer. And our congressman definitely didn't mean the ruling party group, he said, "The person who sees a human being is full of dollars." There's no teasing. If you do, I'll take the word myself, if you don't see the same Ottomans as before. Because it's the same thing.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0258par0130	Mr. Altay, you take over, you don't take over. They have taken charge of them, and they wish to answer, and We do not know it, but it is up to them. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please don't allow any more bullying, I beg you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0135	Very dear friends, of course, in the name of freedoms on this stand, in the name of democracy, freedom of speech, in particular, the nation strives to make the best talk about all these things. We're especially listening to friends. But, dear friends, a ritual is a job, you don't talk about it. They know who's doing what, who's not, who's trying to integrate this nation, who's trying to unite it, who's trying to divide it, who's trying to divide it. The referee is the people, the people. You talk, we talk. We're not just talking, we're going to the public with our actions. We stand before the people at every turn, my people, and we say, 'choice again.' There are such preferences. Which one do you prefer?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0261par0136	Tell me something different, Ahmet.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0137	He's making a citizen's choice. We'll leave the decision to the public. And this nation has always made the right decision.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0261par0138	When the time comes, that citizen will teach you a lesson.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0139	This nation has thus far decided with respect, and people have appreciated who is right and who is not. Who tells the truth, who tells the wrong, who tells the wrong, who's white, who's black; people decide it, let's let the people do it. Again, dear friends, yes, you said democracy, but -- I'm sorry to say that our friend is actually speaking -- you obviously can't swallow democracy inside you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0261par0141	Yes, we brought democracy to this country, Ahmet. You're there for him today. Oh, my God, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0142	If you were able to digest it, you wouldn't be able to describe a friend of ours who's so liberal, who's expressed his thoughts, especially if he's in a conversation that's been held a long time ago. So you're going to get up... dear friends, I mean green dollars, green marks, euros, who takes them, who knows what they're doing. I'm sorry, but if you're going to get up here and do literature, get up here and make politics with some accusations, with some sort of non-committal allegations, with insults, this nation doesn't make you a power with that kind of politics. You're going to build projects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0262par0143	It's not for you to decide, it's for the public to decide.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0144	You'll plan, you'll schedule. What in God's name have you solved for this nation?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0262par0145	That's what we say. That's what we say in the squares.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0146	The budget is being discussed, and he said, this is what he said, this is what he did, this is what he did... What are you doing?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0262par0147	Mr. President, we sing them in the squares.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0148	What is your vision of the future of Turkey? We say 2023, we say 2053, we say 2071, do you have any suggestions for this nation for tomorrow, do you have a project?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0263par0149	There's lots, there's lots. I don't think you're listening. I don't think you're listening to us.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0150	The main opposition is opposition to whatever's at that moment. The main opposition is to whatever is at that moment, whatever is being discussed. There's no such thing as opposition.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0263par0151	I don't think you're listening to us.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0264par0152	We're gonna learn from you? Are we going to learn opposition from you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0153	The opposition has to act responsibly, and the opposition has to act with common sense. And again, you know who the real disrupter is?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0265par0155	The separatist is the one who told 52 citizens of Reyhanlı that our Sunni citizens have died.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0156	The separatists are those who are parallel to what is happening in front of this nation, who are with those who are trying to take away the will of the nation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0266par0159	Let's change the election dam. Indeed, it is you who are the losers.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0260par0160	I'm talking to that teacher, whoever takes it personally.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0267par0162	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0268par0164	It's the separatist who does the customs of Reza.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0269par0165	By referring to our orator group, Mr. Orator has made a very public taunt, saying that we can't digest democracy.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0267par0166	Here you are, Mr. Altay. I've just asked our councillors not to be bullied again.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0270par0168	The MPs have nothing to do with it, tell the group's deputy presidents it's the group's vice president's fault.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0267par0169	Please, I'm warning you again. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0271par0172	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to make certain reminders in the pollen of two of our most valuable young lawmakers who have just sparked an argument and then respond to Mr. Aydın. What my congressman said yesterday is that the idea can be evaluated in freedom of expression, it's reasonable, maybe I'll sign under it, but what's wrong is that Turkey is a state of law. This is the Constitution you see in my hand. According to this Constitution, everyone must obey both here and in the government, both on the streets and on the street, from Mr. President to our MPs here, from governor to governor. You come in, you change it, all right, all right. I'm one of those who accepts that whatever comes out of the chest is above our heads. Yes, I've looked at all the election results since 2002. Despite everything, we believe that despite many negativeities, there is a public support that begins with 34 percent of your party and hits up to 49 per cent, including ups and downs. This public support does not mean that you do everything right in everything, one way or another. The second issue, as one of the oldest in this Parliament, is that power is tolerant of opposition criticism, a tradition that has existed since the beginning of Parliament. But I'm running out of time... We've absorbed democracy. We are proud to be part of a party that introduces this country to democracy. You're going to say, "One party period." I'll tell you in advance: It's the government of the Republic of Turkey that was founded after an empire, a war, an invasion. At that time, that party was the first step towards democracy, not democracy. There was also the late Menderes at that party, and Celal Bayar, and you had the most respected - if they were dead - grandfathers, ancestors. It was the road to the opening of a new era in Turkey. There were no problems. No one said there were no problems. Turkey couldn't have met democracy without those problems. Anyone who thinks it would be too easy to crown the Republic with democracy is mistaken, and let's stress that. But, look, Mr. Aydın asked me about... You know what our vision is? We have three visions: we don't crush the people, we don't rob the government, we don't divide the country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit03spe0272par0181	Thank you, Mr. Altay. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0272par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on Article 5 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. The commission and the government are in place. Now it's his turn to speak for Adıyaman MP Salih Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0273par0011	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 5 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are almost at the end of the budget marathon that we started on December 10th. I'd like to make a summary of our government's investments from 2002 to today. We've done more than the sum total of investments made throughout our Republic history in our 12 years of power. First of all, I'd like to point out that the political stability provided during the last 12 years of AK PARTI power has laid a key basis for the development of our country.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0274par0014	If I could repeat your past conversations here, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0273par0015	Thanks to this climate of stability and trust created by our power, fundamental macroeconomic instability, such as inflation and public deficits, has been largely eliminated during our rule. Thanks to our investments and services in transport, we see that distances are getting shorter and shorter by the day, that land roads, railways, and, in particular, air travel transportation can now be easily used by all of our people. In the past, our high-speed train network, which we have never dreamed of, has spread rapidly across the country's sath. Fast trains between Ankara and Eskişehir began now between Ankara-İstanbul, Ankara-Konya and the Konya-İstanbul, which we inaugurated this week, and our people are travelling safely and comfortably. Between 1975 and 2002, foreign investors invested only $15 billion in our country. Over the past decade, the number of foreign investments has been significantly increased, thanks to the stability and confidence we have provided in our country, while nearly $150 billion has been invested. Again, 212 dams and plants were built between 1955 and 2005, while 268 dams and plants were built in our power. When we came to power, we had only five provinces of natural gas across the country, and today there are almost no more natural gasses, and today 72 of our provinces have become natural gas. Due to the lack of time, I'd like to talk to you about my constituency, Adıyaman, and the investments and services we've made over the past 12 years. During our rule, Adıyaman was given about $6.5 billion in investments and support for health, education, agriculture from industry, social policies, culture and tourism from the university, forest and water work from environmental and urbanism, youth and sports from KYODES. Turkey's third largest suspension bridge, which is about 200 million, and our 400-bed education and research hospital, which is about to expire, is not included. On 27 May 2008, the GAP Action Plan was declared in Diyarbakır for the rapid implementation of irrigation investments under the GAP, including 20 per cent of irrigable land in our country, with an increase of seven times the funding. In 2003, irrigation funds with 211 million Turkish liras were raised to $1.36 billion Turkish dollars in 2014. Investment in our eastern regions in particular has allowed the region's people to improve in economic and social areas. The decisive resolution by our government has had a positive impact on economic stability in the region and on the welfare of the people. In addition, steps have been taken to meet the expectations of each section in the area of democratisation as well as to describe it as a quiet revolution. Before our governments, we all see that all changes are tried to be adopted from the top down, from the center to the environment, and today we see that all changes are based on the will of the people, from the environment to the center, from the bottom up, despite the interest lobby, from the preacher lobby, and from the blood lobby. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as was the budgets before this, I wish that this budget would be a blessing to our country and our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0275par0025	Thank you, Mr. Firat. I'll go to the QA, but there are no lawmakers. I only saw Mr. Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. Let's start with you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0276par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. In June 2012, Mr. Finance Minister and the government insisted that the Prime Minister and the President follow the implementation results of the 15th Prime Minister's General Assembly, and that he refuses to respond. In this regard, we continue to repeat and insist on the question of this Prime Ministerial Generality. How many demands does he expect? And Mr. President, I will not give up the administration, and I will be president of the Council of Ministers. We need to be enlightened about this, our House. And I demand to be briefed on the demands.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0277par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0278par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I received an answer from you yesterday regarding the sale of agricultural fields, but I'm getting e-mails and phone calls from all over Turkey, from Maras, from Antwerp, from Denizli, from Bursa. What would our citizens do for the sale of farms, loud and clear? They're going back and forth between the agricultural district managers and their managers. Is there going to be a notice? Is the value-appreciation statement sent ten days ago enough? We'd appreciate a clear, clarifying view. Everyone's watching you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0279par0036	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0280par0038	Mr. Secretary, the County Bank, as we all know, is providing loans to private governments and municipalities, providing loans for their projects. These loans are mostly provided with foreign finances, external loans, so they support the project. Again, in one night, he gave the City of Tripoli 15 million without a project, but probably because Erdogan was Minister of Bayraktar, he gave him 15 million loans. That's not really the question I wanted to ask. He also gives a letter of collateral, a letter of guarantees to the municipalities about the loans they get from the banks. These municipalities, they don't pay them on time, they don't pay them at all, they actually have to pay for them in these letters of collateral and the Bank of Provinces. So my question to you is, what is the number that the County Bank paid for the municipalities in 2013 and 2014? What municipalities haven't paid that debt?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0281par0041	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0282par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as you know, I'm also a volunteer MP of Batman, as well as a member of the Fellowship. TOKI, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is working together to build a 15,000-strong stadium for our Batman. This investment in Batman certainly makes us very happy. Our Batman countrymen deserve the best of everything. When it comes to the Crocodile Arena, which is being built in Bursa, we see that no funds have been transferred from the Ministry budget, and the cost of the stadium has been completely destroyed by the municipal budget and our Fellowships. Don't our fellow citizens deserve to invest in the general budget, like our Batman citizens? Aren't the Burssopian sports fans worthy of the best of everything, like their Batman Petrolopian sports-loving brothers? How do you assess this double standard?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0283par0046	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0284par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when I paid a visit to Gültepe, Çınartepe neighborhood in Konak district yesterday, I faced the questions of 100 households who lived in Çınartepe neighbourhood. It's been a neighborhood for about thirty years, and those people have been living there for 30 years. But since 2009, they've sent 15 and 20 billion payment letters to their homes for five years of occupation and the cost of paying. The slum is really hard for people to live in, and now, with this payment plan they've got, they're in pretty bad shape. How do you propose a solution to this? How can this sacrifice of citizens be resolved?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0283par0050	Thank you, Mr. Pine. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0285par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, social security is a very important matter. You pointed out yesterday, 81 billion will be transferred by the Finance Ministry for 2015 to the SGK by the state. Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know about it -- unfortunately, I'm in charge of it -- says that the SEC deficits during Mr. Kilicdaroglu's era were too much and so on and so forth. The SEC deficits at the time are 1 per cent of the national income, 2% of the income, and today at 5%. Five percent is more than two times. He's not supposed to bring that up. Norm and his standard union couldn't be met, presented as structural reforms, couldn't be done, there's a huge management incompetence there. How do you view them as the Treasury Department, how do you judge them? This is one of the most important gaps in the Ministry of Finance, their problems, their problems. May I have your opinion on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0286par0056	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0287par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. We received a note from the Prime Minister's office as to the question Mr. Akçay asked about the Prime Minister's generality. Now, under the Prime Minister's Office of 2012/15, the Prime Minister's office has been asked for permission in 3,534 articles so far regarding the transactions on the treasure movers. The Prime Minister's office has given a negative response to about 3,400 of these demands -- 96 per cent -- to about 30 per cent, to about 30 per cent -- to 104 per cent, and still 3 per cent of them are waiting for the Prime Minister to be processed in his normal process. So, there's only one thing to talk about, the Prime Minister's Generality, and that's the Prime Minister's Office. That's how I got all the details. According to Article 12 of Law 6292, 135 thousand applications have been made so far under the sale of treasured farmland. In order for sales to be made for these, the cost of the land must be determined correctly and consistently by the districts and districts. And for that, we published the article on values and procedures two weeks ago. In addition to that, we won't need any further notices. According to this, our Ministry of Finance agency has begun its efforts to determine the price. Rayics will be determined as a result of their control and evaluation, but we also need to check and assess... in terms of consistency. After that, we'll start selling. Now, if there are no delays due to winter conditions, the evaluations will probably be over in three months at the latest. It'll probably take a month to get control from the center in terms of business consistency. So, at the latest, hopefully, in May -- maybe earlier, but I'm being a little cautious -- these sales will start, and we'll be able to solve an important problem, like in 2/B. Mr. Akar, I don't have any data on the question you asked about the County Bank. I mean, on this Sunday, it's impossible to get that data. But, I'm sure if you pass that question on to our minister, they will answer you. Now, Mr. Erdemir, I didn't know about your relationship with Batman. So I'll see you next time.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0288par0063	Meet him at Batman, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0287par0064	Yeah. Now, of course, Bursa deserves the best of investments. There's no hesitation there. I don't think there's a double standard involved. If I remember correctly -- now I've asked my friends, and I've got confirmation -- in 2013, we transferred $50 million to the Ministry of Finance and Sports to the Ministry of Youth and Sports to help build this stadium at the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality. But we transferred it to the Ministry of Youth and Sports because we transferred $50 million to support the Ministry of Youth and Sports. So there's no double standard.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0289par0066	Mr. Secretary, we'll ask for the rest.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0287par0067	50 million liras is probably a lot more than Batman stadium, so I don't know the costs.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0290par0068	Let's put it in the 2015 budget, Mr. Secretary, otherwise we won't be able to run out of scholarship.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0287par0069	I'm running out of time, guys. Now, Mr. Pine, let's get information from the Bookmaster about the problem in İzmir, and we'll come up with a solution in terms of the information we've received, and we'll suggest a solution, because I don't know the exact nature of the matter at this time, it's not right for me to comment. Mr. Kusoglu, of course, the social security system...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0291par0073	Your time is up, but I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0287par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, what we need to see is that the social security system in Turkey -- until the early 1990s -- was giving more until 1990. The population of a young country, in fact, is more likely to be close to balance than the social security system has ever been. For example, there are some countries like us today, people with very young populations, social security systems that give a lot of money there. But in Turkey, unfortunately, with that retirement age lifted for a while -- you know until 99, a correction was made at 99 -- there was a very serious breakdown in the system at that time, and we see the consequences of that destruction today. So look, the number of pensioners will be 6.5 million in 2002, probably up to around 11 million this year. So in a normal system, you don't get this many pensions. This is because, in fact, there was a step in 99, and in 2008, we entered an important reform effort, but the Constitutional Court clearly said: "There are rights that have been won, you can't have them." Now, unfortunately, because of this transition period, the system can't be improved, so it's here, so you could say that it exploded during the AK PARTY administration, but it's not. We don't control the number of pensioners. Your previous rights, earned rights, must be seen as a result of arrangements brought in the early 1990s. And of course we did this: we went to a five-point discount, for example. So the price of a five-point bonus to support the industrialist is about nine to ten billion dollars today. So I don't have the exact number in my head right now.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0292par0077	Mr. Prime Minister shouldn't make this a political issue. That's what I said.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0293par0078	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. MADDE 6- (1) It takes effect in the history of the Law publication. On behalf of their group, the first speaker is Hakkari MP Adil Zozani on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0294par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. As of today, we have heard that the joint operation of HPG, YJA Star, YBS, and the Avenger forces have been wiped out of the SENGAL gangs, and I would like to begin by making it a mission to share this news with the public and with the Parliament. Dear lawmakers, we're closing the 2013 book. We're closing a book. Now the MPs are going to say, sir, that the issues leading up to the trial are already in judicial pursuit, and that's not what we do here. Yeah, we're going to do a exoneration right now, and we're going to do a exoneration without clearing up or waiting for it to be cleared up. On what? We'll do a political exoneration, he'll get out of political responsibility. The House will now accept the final account of 2013. We won't be doing the right thing. There shouldn't be a management procedure like this. We all know very well that in many accounts of 2013, judicial transactions continue. It is not proper for the Parliament to go to a clear account without waiting for the outcome of this judicial procedure, choosing a way to accept it. Now, come on, let's not be too obsessed with the past, let's look to the future, let's say what's in the future. Because many times today, government spokesman, ruling party spokesman, group vice presidents have come up here, giving a lot of speeches about vision targets in 2023. They've used this propaganda language many times. But they forget themselves, they've gone on a revision of their 2023 visionary goals, and 15 days ago, they've done a revision. Prime Minister Davutoglu has released a revision programme for 2023 vision targets. They also described the revision program as an action plan. They called it the economic revolution, so that's how they put it. Mr. Ozdal has just expressed here, he said: "Your greatest virtue is that you are selling something that is not good." He expressed it, Mr. Aydın, the Deputy Director of the Group, said: "Ya sir, you've been taunting us." Look, we're living right now, we're living as of today. Fifteen days ago, the Prime Minister announced that 2023 had been revised in the vision action plan, reduced the targets, pulled them back. You still call it the visionary goals of 2023. What's a 2023 vision target? There's a $2 trillion economy-sized target in 2023. Is it practical? I don't have to say anything. What's your 2018 target? Let me explain the number explained by Mr. Davutoglu: $1.3 trillion. So, if you're going to reach 1.3 in four years, how are you going to achieve $2 trillion in the next three years? On one condition, all the world will cease, the world will not return, only Turkey will advance. If that happens, you'll be outstripping your opponents. Whereas we're in a position behind the data of developing countries that we're completely competing against. I'll put aside the statement from 15 days ago, just two days ago. Mr. Davutoglu has made another statement to the public. Look, it's been especially in the budget days so no one can feel it. What day did he make that statement? The day after the crisis in Russia, he made this statement. Faced what? What was in that statement? He's got a belt tightening policy. You'll tighten the citizen's belt, you'll grab him by the throat. What are you going to stick with? Your first economic action in 2015 is to increase taxes, to receive more taxes from a citizen. We've been through this, we've put it aside. Now, how are you going to eliminate the injustice of income distribution in the country? You're saying you've narrowed down the scissors. On the contrary, Turkey is a government schematic divided into seven geographical regions, within climate schematics, using six areas as a colony for a region. You're using all the resources of the six districts to develop a region. I don't know if Aykan Bey is going to be upset, but unfortunately, all of Turkey's regions are being used for the development of the Marmara Region, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0295par0093	Come on, all of us, we're working for you!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0294par0094	Turkey's average income per person is $10,500. At least $17 a share of each person's income in the Marmara region. The national income per capita is between $17,000 and $25,000 in the districts of the Marmara region. What is Batman? It's $3,500.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0295par0095	Look at the investment that Batman received and the investment that he received.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0294par0096	So, what did we do this development based on, according to what, and how did this imbalance develop? Well, think about it. If you put one area on top of all the other areas, bring all the resources of the entire country and try to melt it into a hoop in this area, you'll cause such instability. For Istanbul alone, the government's investment pens are more than a year's total budget for the Republic of Turkey, see, investment pens reserved only for Istanbul. Is Turkey really Istanbul? You've reached a point where Istanbul has become a city that can no longer be lived. The third bridge, tube transit, the third airport's total investment pen is more than the investment pens of Turkey, the entire provinces east of Fırat, and more than all of them. What kind of injustice is that? How do you narrow these scissors down, how do you narrow them down? We've come to a good point as far as the economic development index is concerned. Well, I'm sorry, but I swear to God, that's a load of crap. The course of economic development around the world has now turned out to be just brain production for developed countries, and he's producing brains. It's famous for Italian fabric, but it's not in Italy, it's in China. Germany is famous for its car, not producing heavy industrial parts in Germany, bringing its factory to Turkey, taking it to China, taking it to India. Based on what? It's a cheap labor force. Now, we built a tractor factory here. We bragged about it years ago. Sir, the auto factory, the assembly factory, we bragged about it. Well, let's not brag about it. With these apps, we have identified ourselves as the slums of the world. We are now in the ghetto position of the world as a country, in the ghetto position of the developing world. What are you bragging about? It may be a comfort to you, but the country's resources -- particularly the ecological balance -- are being looted, unfortunately, our nature is being destroyed. We've become the garbage of the developing world. And you're saying that as a source of pride. That's the same for 2013, that's the same for 2014, that's the same for 2015. So we're going to say good luck, and we're talking about a budget that doesn't have a good side. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0296par0100	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0297par0101	Mr. President, Mr. Zozani said Aykan Bey might be in trouble. He said that investing in the region could be difficult for me, and he gave me my name. I want your word that he's picking on you with a name.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0296par0102	Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0297par0105	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't doubt Mr. Zozani's good intentions, so I don't think it's a bad word. On the contrary, I believe it was a misunderstanding because he didn't hear what I said. What did I say: our Batman citizens, our supporters who support Batman Petroleumspor, are worthy of the best investments. I did not race investments, but I said, "Even if he did, Batman should be worthy of the best investments." After all, regional inequalities can only be solved by such politics. It's not about racing cities, competing provinces, turning people against each other, but of course, using public resources effectively and efficiently to minimize inter-state inequality. The fundamental economic question here is: why is there no public investment, not just public investment, but interstate inequality? The issue is an investment ecosystem problem. The problem with investment ecosystems is that I don't exclude policy of identity as much as identity policies -- certainly, and certainly the economy requires political sharing and division policies, which require social democratic policies. Because it's social democrat politics, because it's a division and sharing policy that reduces the Gini coefficient of a country by eliminating between the classes and the inequality between the individuals. Unfortunately, Turkey has suffered a slight decline in the Gini coefficient in its variable over the past 12 years. So, our revenue distribution, unfortunately, is moving very, very slowly in the right direction and very far behind the similar countries. If we're facing an important issue of inequality for Turkey, both in the region and between the classes, then what Turkey needs is social democratic politics, I call the Republican People's Party, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0298par0109	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Nüğde MP Doğan Şafah. Here you go, Mr. Dawn.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0299par0117	Thank you. Mr. President, most of our friends from the ruling party MPs, who came to the stand, have been served more than all governments in the history of the republic during the EC PARTI period, and those times feel as if nothing had been done. I'd like to pass on a note or two here. A total of 4,000km of state railways were built in Turkey between 1925 and 1950. Between 1950 and 2004, a total of 872km of state railways was built in Turkey. And I'm going to pass on a few more notes. The People's Bank, Business Bank, Sumerbank, Etibank, sugar factories were all done in the 1930s. So the reason Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk made his name when he founded Sumerbank is because the Sumerbanks dealt with the textile industry in history; he named Etibank as an original name; and Etibank is because the Etibank deals with the mine sector. All banks and sectors are set up to suit their purpose. Dear friends, it has caused major problems in the town of Niğde, especially Dündarlı, Hacıbeyli, Sazlıca, in the towns of Niğde, where they were first paid for a section of our farmers who were victims of the apple-maker's frosting disaster in the last spring. I demand equal resolving of this victimification from the stand and I move on to the item. Dear friends, domestic savings and foreign currency in an economy are the main obstacles to a stable and rapid growth process. It is not possible to achieve a healthy and stable growth rate without providing them. Our country is also growing up in a process that shows very, very large fluctuations rather than a stable growth process. During the period, positive growth speeds are achieved due to the growth of domestic consumption and imports, which are accelerated by short-term external sources. Some of the fundamental problems of our country are still unresolved. Examples of these may show that the economy does not create resources within its own structure to finance rapid and stable development, that the resources created are not effectively used, and that these resources are not transferred to industrial investments and human capital development. Some debates in political, economic analysis are related to the harmful political consequences of budget deficits. The fact that public deficits have the opportunity to finance through debt allows the government to be less active in improving social well-being. Politics itself is suffering from a kind of unintegrated voter myopism. This myopism is that the benefits of large public spending are open, visible, and intuitive for voters. However, future tax increases to pay the growing debt due to public deficits seem much smaller than the costs are far and uncertain. Beyond that, people who are not yet born or under the age of age do not vote. Those who will have to pay taxes to pay interest due to national debt are not voting today. There is no taxation without commission. The principle is that long-term national debt should not be taken or, better yet, the size of the national debt should not exceed the state's capital supply. Congressmans, the economy of our country is in the grip of hot money today. Hot money is short-term capital currents that invest high risk, high yield properties based on arbitrage, based on imbalances between interest and exchange dry in national markets, including elements such as speculative, short-term, extreme fluctuation and habit. Hot money usually goes to countries with speculative profits. Hot money is money that has temporarily been placed between countries to invest in long-term investments, to build factories, not to produce them, to obtain money from interest, money from ribbons and treasury bonds, deposit certificates, financial instruments such as financial bonds. Any negative action about the country he's been in, he runs away. Hot money brings comfort to the country where he's gone, but when he leaves the country, that comfort leaves its place to panic, even to the crisis. 94, 2001 crises in our country stem from the negative effects of hot money currents. Today, hot money talks about deer in the stock market-drug interest triangle in our country. Dear friends, in data published by the Central Bank at the end of 2012, the foreign people have been able to bring $102.8 billion in capital to invest in stock markets and public debt bonds over the past 25 years, and transfer about $42.8 billion in profits from these vehicles to their countries. The record part of these profit transfers was during the AKP administration. Between 1986 and 2002, profit transfers totaled 12 billion 189 million, while as of April 2003-2012, 30 billion were $641 million. We see that this system, also called Chinese capital, has taken a lot out of the pockets of the people of Turkey. There's no need to be attracted to it anymore. Dear MPs, I'd like to explain some of my thoughts on the agricultural sector. The painting in the agricultural sector is severe. Turkey has lost its ability to be a self-sufficient country in the food field, becoming a country that imports most agricultural products. The fields of agriculture are reduced from 27 million hectares to 25 million hectares. The biggest problem we face is the consumption of agricultural land, the disease, the neglect. Family farming was destroyed, villages were cut off from production. The village stores now sell bread, eggs, milk, and produce trucks once a week. The Metropolitan Law and 16,577 villages were transformed into neighborhoods. Here, agriculture and livestock have been limited and their share of taxes, tuition, and participation has been increased. In one night with the Metropolitan Law, the population of the countryside fell from 10,500,000 to 6,600,000. There's no government anywhere in the world that creates 4 million cities from the rural population overnight. In addition, Turkey is in complete turmoil over GMO products. U.S.A.'s GMO lobby's awareness studies in Turkey have been reflected in WikiLeaks documents. Turkey has become dependent on foreign, imported seeds and mostly GMO foods. Mr. President, I'd like to briefly express my thoughts on the tourism industry. Structural problems continue in the tourism industry. More and more environmental and marine pollution threatens the Mediterranean and Aegean coasts. Our shores, where foreigners plunder quickly, are rapidly cementing and losing its natural properties. Turkey must move from price-oriented tourism policy to quality-oriented tourism policy. While 68 per cent of the tourists who come to our country have a mid-income level, close to 30 per cent of the bed capacity in Turkey consists of five-star facilities. Thus, the proportional relationship between the capacity we see in Spain and the visitor's income level has not yet been established in Turkey. Investors who organise facilities for visitors of the upper income group are forced to lower prices because they do not get the expected number of visitors from the target group. As a result, there are discrepancies between the quality of service and the fee required. In Turkey, the type of investment, product and composition should be directly proportional to the customer profile. In universities, four years of guidance should be opened, covering various languages other than English, and the Ministry of Tourism must contact the SEC. The insurance legislation of tourism companies that is invalid and has no legal basis must be revised. Dear friends, the Aladağa dam, the lake, the forest project, the Bolkar Mountains winter tourism skiing project must be carried out immediately. The Kemerhisar Tyana treasure digs have long been covered up, and must be brought to light. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0300par0132	Thank you, Mr. Dawn. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0301par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 6 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our precious citizens who are watching us on their screens with respect and conversation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have reached the end of another budget marathon. We've heard every party's views on budget law for ten days here, and now we've reached the most important item, the executive clause. Of course, that's what power knows best, but our beloved nation also knows exactly which ships the AKP makes sail in which seas. The members and ministers of the ruling party tried to show themselves here every day with numbers. Turkey's economy has flown, Turkey's investment paradise, we haven't sold any facilities, they'll be back after a while. They said nice words like that. If only we could agree with those views, if only the facts were the same, but the facts don't exactly confirm the words of power. Most of the investments are carried out by the do-and-run method and the Treasury guarantees. Many of the facilities that have been built have serious gaps between the actual cost of the contract and the price of the contract. Most of the companies that do these things are billing our government, our nation for their work with incentives, incentive loans, and various benefits. Most of these facilities will have already completed their economic lifespan when the period of construction is full and the business comes to hand over. Again, we need to take a look at the question of divided roads that power talks the most about. How many times has it cost him to have divided ways of power? For example, I'd like to ask you about my territory: How many times has the mug-bed been dug up, how many times it's been done? How much money was paid for this, and how much would this road cost if it was done properly in the beginning? How many times did Marmaris-Gyzeova travel the divided road, how many times it's been rebuilt, how much did this road cost, how much would it have cost if it had been done right from the start? It's possible to ask for a significant portion of the routes done, but the most important question to ask here is, how many resources did you transfer to your fellow contractors, and then how much did you raise from these contractors to the pool media? Dear lawmakers, half the people who work in our country work for minimum wage, and there are also those who are unemployed. We don't even have to talk about the pensioners, they're already miserable. Our college graduates have only one problem, they're all walking through each and every one of your doors. In such an environment, you say: "Everyone is happy, everyone lives like roses. " In fact, you know very well that the broad parts of society are not happy. You are well aware that the rate of divorce for those who are insane, the suicides, is increasing every day, and that these numbers continue to increase. This is the greatest work of the AKP. Again, I'd like to ask you, can this budget solve the problem of our farmer who can't sell oranges for even 25 cents? Is it possible that our manufacturer, who can't sell this budget lemon for 10 cents, is going to have a problem with it? Is it possible for our producers, my countrymen, to remove the pomegranate gardens because your budget can't sell their pomegranates? Is this budget going to take away our pensioner's livelihood? Yesterday, we also learned something new: until 2008, we learned that there were cutbacks on the pensions of pensioners, which amounted to 300 lira in this range, as part of their medical contribution. Will this budget increase the income of the minimum wage and solve his livelihood? Will this budget provide work for our unemployed brothers and sisters? Is this budget going to solve our farmer's problems, our shop owner, who's having trouble paying even the BUG-KUR bonus? Will this budget relieve the burden of our citizens under the debt of credit cards and consumer loans? Will this budget be able to free Turkey from its consumption economy and transfer it to the production economy? Will this budget be able to cover the current deficit? Can this budget help our country's energy deficit? I would love to say yes to them in this budget, like any other Turkish citizen, but we all know that the answer to all these questions is, unfortunately, a huge no. Dear lawmakers, of course, the most important event that marks these budget talks is the largest corruption operation of the century, which was launched on 17 December and 25 December 2013. Unfortunately, the AKP has not been able to follow a method or method to eliminate these corruptions, expose them completely and enlighten them and judge their criminals. On the contrary, he tries to remove himself from what is going on by bans, police appointments, judge, prosecutors' appointments, and bureaucracy by appointing other bureaucrats involved in this work, by concealing, and by accusing those who have exposed these corruptions of parallelism. But the minaret is too big to fit. Whatever you do, the AKP will take its place in memory along with these corruptions. In connection with the two of you who walked together yesterday, Mr. President, they were even involved in unsolved murders. He says, again, this parallel structure, they have taken over some institutions and some schools with its corruption. I'd like to ask you, if these allegations are true, where was the AKP's power, what was it doing when the unsolved murders were committed? If these claims are true, how was the AKP's power occupied while some state institutions and some schools were being taken over by a congregation? If you cannot control even the state's own institutions as power, how will you maintain peace and trust in this country? In addition, why does Mr. President not appoint the State Control Board to shed light on these events? Or did the parallelists also take over the State Control Board? If the President complains, what will the citizen do, where will he go, who will he tell? Dear friends, there have been allegations in several media-release organizations that the government has asked the Imran killer to help maintain public order during illegal talks with the baby killer in Imra. It's a very grave claim, and it's been very upsetting to us. However, what really upsets us is the deep silence of the AKP's government on this claim. So, here, the AKP's government is now seeking help in maintaining public order from corrupters. This is one of the greatest indicators of your power's fulfilment. Now, the AKP's power is moving rapidly towards the election that will purge itself. Our valued citizens, who have seen and evaluated Turkey's point of origin, will do their due in the first election and open the way for our country to light. With its shortcomings, I wish that this budget, despite everything, be a blessing to our government and our nation, with this feeling and thoughts, to greet your grand delegation and citizens who follow us on their screens with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0302par0147	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of Eskişehir MP Ulir Can. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0303par0151	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself on Article 6 of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the budget of 2015, which is the 13th budget of our EC PARTI, is listed as a success report for our government, compared to the budget figures and the past. In the pre-2002 budget talks, governments took to the stand with statements seeking an excuse for the failure of their budgets, and there was a government that took to the stand today to express our proudly expressed services, the growing welfare of our nation. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are not expected to understand and understand the actions of those who have applied Turkey's level to this country in the history of the 70-year-old republic until 2002. Through artificial debates, virtual fears, with a mindset that has declared its nation an enemy to its own state, Turkey has lost its energy from 1940 to 2002, but the AK PARTI power, which believes in its nation, has again taken this energy from its nation, has managed to hold Turkey's curved back, holding high the head of the nation's head forward. Mr. President, for those of you who don't understand the new concept of Turkey today and who don't want to understand it, the 2015 budget is a guide, a more clear budget when it is placed next to the 2002 budget of the former Turkey. The size of our 2015 budget was 473 billion Turkish liras, and in 2002 it was 119 billion Turkish liras. It is also useful to give you the figures that describe the difference between the budget for the 2023 vision and the budget that enriches interest lobbyes. In 2002, 43.2% of all budget spending were interest payments, 12 per cent today. The foreign direct investment that came to our country during 1984-2002 was $145 billion from $14.6 billion to today from 2003. In 2002, the IMF debt was $23 billion, but today it is zero. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are now down to 14 per cent in this country today, which has given 85 per cent of the tax revenues received from the nation in 2002 to interest costs. The money that came out of people's pockets that day as interest payments comes back today as a service to people's pockets. Turkey has now moved from an understanding of governance that pleases interest lobbying to an understanding of governance today that has adopted a principle of public service. And that's the truth of all this unrest, all this discomfort. Had Turkey not been entrusted to the nation's men and ruled as it had been before 2002, there would have been an additional 650 billion, which had been paid for interest at the rate of that day so far. And that's because we're telling our nation these facts, and because we're spending them for our nation, we're doing our 13th budget, and we're going to keep doing it. And under the leadership of our Prime Minister, we will continue to do service politics, and we will give the nation what we have taken from the nation with our works. With these feelings, I wish our budget to be good for our country, for our nation, for all our friends, especially our Minister, who has worked so hard to prepare the budget. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0304par0161	Thank you, Mr. Can. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA section. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0305par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, since yesterday, the pensioners have been looking for us very heavily. Since 2008, pensions in this December have been claimed to be cut from pensioners' salaries to up to $300 under the name of the fee. Why is that? Will you have any work to do to fix this? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0306par0167	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0307par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is December 21st, World Co-operative Day. I'm celebrating Co-operative Day. There's no agriculture, no farmers, no peasants, no pensioners, no servants, no widows, no orphans, no runaway palaces. I'd like to ask if there's any incentives or arrangements for co-op. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0308par0172	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0309par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, on 17 December 2014, the Liberal Democratic Party Beyoğlu district building was hung with a banner in the anniversary week of Indira Gandhi, India's legendary Prime Minister. This banner was taken down by the police who raided the party building, and the boys who hung the banners wanted to be arrested. To what do you attribute the insufferability shown by the police in the poster of Iza Gandhi, the only female Prime Minister of India, the friend and sister country? How do you assess the claim that there were some former ministers who encouraged the law enforcement forces to take action against the poster of Downa Gandhi? Do you find it a problem for political parties to organise a memorial week? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0310par0177	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0311par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I know you're off topic, but I still have to ask. The district of Yusufeli is one of our rare districts in Turkey, which will be under the dam. For about 15 or 20 years, there has been a deep hesitation as to when the official process of the dam in Yusufeli would begin. Citizens are continuing their home productions, and there is no hesitation as to when publicisation will begin, which will also be stemming from publicisation. Is there, therefore, any grant from the treasury to be made public? Will there be any formalisation in the district of Yusufeli in 2015? Do you have any savings on this? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0312par0183	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0313par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on Thursday the Prime Minister announced structural reforms and austerity measures with you, and you were there. He said it was very important, he said it. Yesterday, a member of parliament here pronounced a number of 30,000 liras per year for the plaque measure he called "not symgalogical," which our friend the Prime Minister considers very important among the austerity measures. What do you think about that? How much savings does this plaque predict, Mr. Prime Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0314par0189	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0315par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how are you going to reduce unemployment and increase employment as growth rates drop? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0316par0194	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Captain...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0317par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't have Mr. Finance Minister right now, but Mr. Secretary, I think you can answer. I've just asked the Minister of Finance a question: do you intend to improve living conditions by raising their salary by 50 per cent? And the minister said to me, "Well, not 50 percent, but we increased pensions between 250 and 800 percent." I couldn't believe it, I brought the minutes. Mr. Secretary, these are the reports, exactly. Well, if it isn't the Minister of Turkey, I don't understand. Where did the pensions of these pensioners increase between 250 and 800 percent? This isn't in Turkey, is it, Mr. Secretary? There's no such thing, there's an increase in 3-4 percent. So we'd appreciate it if you'd give us an answer.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0318par0199	Thank you, Mr. Captain. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0319par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, especially in Hatay, we see a serious sale of property to foreigners, regardless of the principle of reciprocity. However, what is the reason why it is forbidden to sell treasures to our citizens in Hatay, when it is allowed to sell treasured land almost everywhere in Turkey? That's one. Secondly, Hatay is a district of Samandağ Province, Turkey. The environmental road project was drafted in 1970, and was included in the zoning plan in 1989. Forty years have passed, and there has still been no developments in this environment. Could it be because of the political preference of the people there? Do you have any work to do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0320par0205	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0321par0207	Thank you very much, my dear President. Now, let's ask a lot of questions... immediately from the Social Security Agency about the pensioners' obligations to the examination fee... and report the answer to that in writing. And today, I'm celebrating World Co-operative Day. The co-operatives have given great service in our country to come together and do good things at the beginning of our country's development. Of course, is there agriculture in this budget? Yes, there is more than 10 billion direct support for agriculture. Is there a pensioner? Yes, there is a pensioner. ▪ Are there funds in this budget that have social state properties? ▪ There are more than enough funds in it. So if you look at the figures of our budget, for the first time in the budget of this state, one of the most valuable speakers before this, when you say this government compares itself to the Republic of the Republic, this is the government of the Republic of Turkey, and hopefully as long as the Republic of Turkey continues, the services of this government will take its place in the service of those republics. This is the first time I've heard of the Indira Gandhi posters on December 17th. Maybe we didn't notice it in our busy schedule. I mean, I don't quite understand it here, but I don't think it's in the CHP's building, so...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0322par0212	LDP, Liberal Democratic Party.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0321par0213	I don't mind the Indira Gandhi posters hanging from the building of the Liberal Democratic Party. Indira Gandhi is truly a great symbol of the struggle for the independence of a country against persecution. I can't make sense of it. The cost of publicization under the water of Artvin Yusufeli, under the dam, I think it's a dam that's probably going to be built by the private sector. In publicisation, yes, it is also subject to paying the price by the private sector when the decision for rapid publicisation is made, if it is a dam made by the private sector. And we've taken a note of that, in a much more accurate way, so let's do it in a more precise way. In the transformation plan, which our Prime Minister announced the second one -- 9 in advance and now 7 in total -- the 1,250 action plan -- one of the ingredients is there as we explain the transformation plan with the strong Turkish slogan -- of course, in those seven plans, there are mitigating measures, blocking luxury consumption, and one of them is symbolically the plaque that Mr. Prime Minister used to say. Yes, it's true, everywhere we go, people are trying to give good intentions to the ministers or to the prime ministers or to the MPs or to a president of an institution, a plaque, something symbolic. He certainly means well, but it's also a bad tradition, let's just say. We need to get rid of this. People can do it in a very different way there. I think it can be done with a spiritual display of love. How much will be saved? It doesn't matter financially, but I believe it has a spiritual, symbolic significance. As the growth rate declines, dear friends, Turkey has grown by 5.8 per cent in a row since the last 20 quarter, since the 2008 crisis, and Turkey has been number one in increasing the number of jobs in the world from 2008 to today.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0323par0219	Mr. Secretary, this is the end of our time.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0321par0220	Thus, 6 million people lost their jobs in the European Union, while Turkey created 7 million additional jobs. Looking at the conditions around us this year, north, south, and around us, in total, as the world's trade goes down, growth will grow at 3.3 percent as Turkey goes down. Our unemployment is 10.1 percent, even though we have increased our number of jobs. Why? Accession to the labour force has reached 51 per cent of the 44 per cent. So, 51 percent of the population in Turkey is going to work. I'm going to start to say, "Well, there's a very high turnout in the labor force, and that's why. By increasing our growth rates with different measures in the coming period... it is true that Turkey should not accept growth below 5 per cent, it should grow above 5 per cent. We'll answer the other questions in writing, hopefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0324par0223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm reading the 7th article. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0325par0230	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we did a month on the Commission, then 12 days of non-stop work here. We spoke as opposition, the ruling party listened more, and the ministers responded sometimes. What's changed? When we look at it like this, what increase will be given to us at the beginning of the 2015, especially the pensioners, the citizens watching us? That's the question they're asking us now. There's no increase in this budget. The unassigned teacher asks, "How much longer are we going to wait?" The agricultural engineers, food engineers, veterinarians, a lot of jobs, young unemployed, college graduates ask: "What's going to happen?" The unemployed are looking, the unemployed say: "When are we going to find a job?" The budget says: "When are we going to find a job?" So, as a social state, different parts of society, women, disabled children, all ask: "What will this budget bring us? " It does not bring us anything new. So our citizens ask 77 million: what will be done in art, culture, tourism, the future of the country? This budget does not promise art, tourism, culture. You're saying it's growing. The numbers show it's growing. Ten years of development planning, one by one, you revisit your goals, day by day, the growth rates don't hold up. The midterm program didn't work out, guys. The vision of 2023 is $25,000 per person. You say, it's a dream. Why is it a dream? You of all people should know that. If the tender law changes hundreds of times in a period of power, in the era of apprentices, phalanx, mastery, then in the 2015 elections, this tender law will no longer be changed by regulations, but by word. Hundreds of times... no inspection. Do you know what Mr. Davutoglu, your Prime Minister, says today at the Ankara Congress, for those who reach out to the treasury, the Beytulmale, the citizen's penny? He speaks very clearly: "We are ready to cut off the arm of anyone who comes near the sacred, national treasure with intent of corruption. We know that the thief's hand would be cut off in the law; the Hand of the man and the woman who commits theft 5/38, says that we cut off the hands of the man and the woman who commits theft. " What's with the arm? There are heroes without arms, and there are no arms. Come on, guys, I mean, you're not doing religion right. I mean, watch out for him. We understand the law, so at least don't miss the scales in religion. Behold! Our messenger saith: Lo! those before you were destroyed for what they did: when a noble man steals, they release him, and when a weak man steals, they punish him. That's why they were destroyed. Now, every time Mr. Aydın comes out here from now on, we've come out of the chest, we represent the national will. If so many people love you, you love the will of the nation, you trust the chest, and you vote for us. If you say so, why don't you raise the threshold of ten percent of this junta, the Kenan Universe, the coupger? Why do you seek refuge in him? Why are you giving him a runt? Yeah, it's illegal to take advantage of everything these coupgers do, guys, it's illegal. Look, you've seen a lot of treasure help out there. For the past two semesters, our group has not taken a penny in this House, you've taken 853 million liras. You put our voter's tax in your pocket, it's not legal. Our voter doesn't give you his blessing. If you have complete confidence in the national will, if you believe in the people, then let's get out of the chest and remove the obstacles in front of the people's will. We're telling you that we've been in this Parliament for two semesters, friends, that we, the People's Democratic Party, are now going to run as a party, and that's the right thing to do. We've broken your dams as independent candidates for two semesters, and we said, "Blah, blah, blah! We broke your dams, we broke your walls." Now, we're in 2015... Peoples' Democratic Party is a left, radical union, defending radical democracy. There are world examples of this right next to you, so you don't have to go too far. Look, Greece was the last two-party in the election for the European Parliament. There's no need to go too far; in the Republic of Northern Cyprus, those small parties that you didn't like joined together; left, socialist, democratic, independents sat down, joined the people's forces, took over the mayorate of Nicosia. How long will this reign last? No power is eternal, my friends, and neither is yours. Human beings, political parties are human beings. There are powers you represent. Look, we're telling you very clearly that our current voting potential is 15 percent, and our trust vote is 10%, and I'm telling you straight. You have the votes of our voters, of the workers, of the Metropolis, of the Inner Anatolia, of the West. We're going to try to get this trust back with a serious policy. I've got 3% of your...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0326par0244	There's no CHP?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0325par0245	We also have 10 per cent of trust votes in the CHP because we will get the votes of workers, leftists, revolutionaries because we defend freedoms more radically. I've just arrived from the inner Anatolian convention -- and I've also looked at the MPP. We have 2 per cent of the trust vote from Bala, from the flowerhole, from Yozgat, from the Çankırı, from the villages of Aksaray, from the villages of Konya, from our base. Now when the real thing comes out, no one's gonna look at the photocopier. This goal is a real political account: 3 per cent from AKP, 3 per cent from CHP, 1 mp, 7 per cent from MHP; we have 9 per cent of the vote...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0326par0247	You're in power, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0325par0249	...this party will come here in the election with the minimum 15 percent vote. We're not gonna sit in that corner. Look, say, Hasip Kaplan said, we're not gonna have a line here, we're gonna sit in the middle and we're gonna be partners in power. You'll have to share the power with us.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0327par0250	You're already partners, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0325par0251	Someone says, "What if you don't cross the dam?" Think about it, brother. A man can't lie down every day, can't lie down, can't sleep, can't sleep, finally comes out, opens the window, I'm not paying him back, so don't go to bed." he says. Don't go to bed. If we don't get here, what will you take this resolution process to the House, power? With whom will you bring peace to this country? How will you combine 77 million of our citizens? That's for you to think about. I'm sorry. Look, we've been here for two semesters, trying to figure out how hard we're taking the solution process, a process that cost $1.2 trillion to this country, a solution process. It's not easy, guys. We're up against real politics, and we don't negotiate with any parties. I'm telling you, we're talking about the solution process with the AK PARTY, we're meeting with CHP on some research proposals from time to time, and the mp is coming, and there are things that we've decided together about energy, about the environment, but I'll remind you... look, the University of Skopje has created a new polygraph. This new polygraph is gonna be domestic. He's saying that the brain of the Black Sea and the European works differently, he gives different reflexes when he says in tabanca, but when this Indian connects to the machine, when he says, "The money counts," when he says, "The money counts," when he says, "The money is going to work," when he says, "Don't give tax, don't give zakat," it's going to work very hard on us. In this last speech, I say, "One day I will pay tribute to all of you in the interest of making the public's budget. "
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0328par0255	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Adana MP Ali Demirçallı on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Demirçalı.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0329par0259	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the executive clause of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all. AKP's finance policy continues to be insensitive to the needs of the economy. Priorities, aside from mandatory pencils and procedural steps attached to legislation, are required to increase the budget's revenues by reducing the public sector's service capacity and expenditures. During the 2003-2013 period, the real-estate and household division, particularly workers, farmers, small producers, were increasingly capable of gaining revenues, which were over-borrowed by financial and loose credit policies, and, depending on that, the balance of assets has deteriorated. However, these sections are not on the agenda of the government's finance policy. The AKP has been an example in the history of economics, with privatisation practices, consequences, and problems. In privatisation applications, the lack of interest in treasure over price, the lack of efficiency of the economy, the lack of necessary investments in privatised institutions, particularly technology, the decline of sectoral forward-retrial connections and the severe financial and social problems of workers have been very common to us. Agriculture is the top of both economic and social sectors for Turkey, as is the case in the world. The agricultural sector, which has a dynamic property with its production and marketing advantages and risks, is a highly strategic sector that provides food for nutrition, provides raw materials for industry, provides a significant part of total employment, and has significant contributions to the country's economy. Throughout the AKP's rulings, the agricultural sector has never found the value it deserves, with all its components from field to table, but the sector is quickly pushed into a collapse. The negative policies that have been implemented in recent years have also shown themselves in the agricultural sector in all its simplicity. Today, it is impossible to say that our country can feed healthy, adequate and balanced, that it can buy the agricultural and food products needed at a reasonable price, and that it can safely reach the consumer table at the time of the products, and that the producers' well-being has increased from the previous year. Farmers and producers are unable to afford imports, even though agricultural exports appear to be increasing, driven by poverty and despair to destroy agriculture. Planted agricultural fields have decreased, labour has been intense, and the escape from this sector absorbing unemployment has accelerated. However, the work and support of our country's 12-year AKP administration process for agriculture and animalism have not reached its rightful measure, and this period has been a period of period when production and producers are being punished for the custom. Between 2003-2014, agriculture and animalism faced major challenges as a result of the inability to implement projects supported by long-term, sustainable and producers and the distorted, long-term policies applied. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, the 12-year process in which the AKP's government has been in office has covered an important period of republic's history, and although the Ministry has been transferred and managed by the same Minister for eight years, structural change and transformation in agriculture has not been achieved, and a stable growth in the sector has not been achieved as a result of support. How sad is it that every new project given billions of dollars of support from the country's treasure and start-up has failed to increase value and efficiency in the industry, and unpredictable practices have failed the problems of agriculture and all the sector's shareholders. With no vision, the potential in the agriculture sector has been made a barren sector, where the level of life in the countryside has not been evaluated enough, and the natural result of that is sustainable prosperity and fertility for future generations. In the AKP's rule, agricultural inputs, such as diesel, fertilizer, energy, medicine, seeds, have increased greatly in prices as the income in the farmer's hands declined. In fact, between 2002-2014 there was an average price increase in fertilizer and diesel prices, reaching 300 per cent. In the same period, the increase in product prices was far behind in input prices. The first time the AKP was in power, it could be bought in 2002 with 1 litre of diesel 4 kilograms of wheat, while today we can only buy 1 litre of diesel with 6 kilograms of wheat. As the following tables show, some products' prices have remained at a very low rate of 80 per cent. Even the highest price increases are behind the rate of increase in input prices. Agriculture support policies have been implemented in low levels during the AKP, although there have been changes in weight and underlying development. Due to Turkey's net importer position in agriculture, the range of products is diversifying and becoming permanent. The allowances for agricultural support are far behind the required level and the poverty of the rural population, which is under pressure for prosperity, has increased. The narrowing in the well-being of farmers, peasants, producers, has not been reflected in the prices of food products consumed by the urban population, but has been seized by those who deal largely in wholesale and retail marjs -- supermarkets, carpeters, these parts. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers don't even provide support for the manufacturer, which he has pledged to pay by law in his day. According to the 21st article of the Agricultural Law issued in 2006, the budget must have at least 1 per cent of the national income for agricultural support each year, while the figure was around 5-6 per thousand. It is clear that in 2007-2014, the source of the law should be transferred to agriculture from 2007 to 2007, is 98.9 billion dollars, and the agricultural budget of the same years is 55.5 billion dollars, so that 43.4 billion dollars is not transferred to agriculture, despite the law. On the other hand, an analysis of fixed prices reveals that the lack of payment to the manufacturer constitutes a higher amount. According to this, the calculation, given that payments to the manufacturer each year since 2007 have been increased by the year's increase in agricultural products by the producer's price index to 2014 prices, shows that the short payment to agriculture in 2007-2014 was $57 billion at 2014 prices. As you can see from the paintings, agriculture has been marred by the AKP's unsupported power, and livestock is over. Turkey chose imports rather than producing them during the AKP ruling period. For the first time in the AKP, hay was imported. I'm inviting AKP MPs to Adana to meet with our farmers. Whether we go together to Karataş or to Feke, or to Saimbeyli, or to Karaisan. Let them see how our farmers are crushed by interest, how our narcissist manufacturers shed blood, how tangerines, oranges remain on the branch, maybe they'll come to self-indulgence. I pay my respects to all the people of Adana who watch us on the screen. And I wish this budget to the good of our country.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0330par0276	Thank you, Mr. Demirçalı. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0331par0280	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've had budget talks for a long time, and we've completed an important part of it today, and hopefully tomorrow, after all the talks on the budget will be over. At the beginning of my promise, I wish the budget to be a blessing. Now, dear friends, Turkey, unfortunately, has become an unmanageable country with institutions and rules. Turkey is currently under a personal and arbitrary administration. The law, the judiciary, the execution were met in one person, and Turkey became a police and party state. Even the concept of national will, the ruling members, unfortunately, are misunderstanding and misinterpreting. Our dear congressman, who just spoke for the ruling party, says: "If Turkey had not been entrusted to the people of the nation and ruled as it had been 2000 years ago, it would have been an epiphany of mentality, the country... It is clear who is meant by the nation's man, who is the only one; he is the President of Erdogan. If Turkey were not entrusted to the people of the nation and ruled as it was 2000 years ago... it would be a confession of a personal understanding of governance. After the local elections -- Mr. President, there was also in the March 30th elections -- the mayor of Pursaks had a thank-you banner and a billboard on the way to the airport, and he says in that poster, the mayor also won the elections: thank you for choosing national will. I mean, I think the muhterem thinks it's national will, and there's an understanding in the Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party power, and in some ministers, that he thinks it's his own will. In fact, the national will that puts him in that position, the will that chooses him, the chosen one, is beginning to think that he is the chosen one. It's really a completely wrong perception, and it's a mindset that needs to be corrected. The Justice and Development Party has never been in power alone for 12 years. We've always defined this as power alone, but in terms of a political reality, the Justice and Development Party is basically a coalition of parallel structures, communities, cults and some interest groups. In fact, the Justice and Development Party is the only government, a multitasking government; all the problems that came out were parallel, Hashishhi, cries, cries, and what did we not give you? Now, let's count parallel structures: congregations, CK, and finally a trade union came out; it became a force that ruled the Ministry of National Education, which decided to appoint 8,000 principals in Turkey. Now, the Justice and Development Party is suffering from this union parallel structure, and how do we get rid of it? The MIT has been transformed into a parallel structure. The National Intelligence Agency has been transformed into a parallel structure in Turkey, along with these latest MIT regulations. Now President Erdogan is a parallel structure, it's happening, now its structures are at stake. When we look at party agencies, the actions of some governors and governors, we see the actions of this party state. Just a moment ago, our dear Fellow-Purse MP friend asked the Minister a question that was taken down by the police by a political party that had been posted a poster for the week of Indiragandi. From the Minister's answer, I understood that Indira mistook Gandhi and Mahatma Gandhi for Minister. It's an expression in Turkish, it's an expression in Turkish, it's a bit of a slanged expression. Don't do indirigandi.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0332par0287	I'll answer that, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0331par0288	Now, if I were to say here that today it's cloudy. The ruling party can sue me. You called us ducks. Why? What happens when the air is cloudy and cloudy? The rain falls, the water builds up, the water builds up, the lake becomes a lake, the duck swims in the lake, and you tell us to duck. Now, look, the future point is this: the word "effected" will soon be banned when you say, "It's going to rain," "It's going to be banned when you say, "It's going to rain," "It's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain" or "it's going to rain." The citizen is shouting, screaming, and the thief is taking him away. And instead of asking, "Where is the thief?," the police show their reaction to the messenger or the responder. Dear lawmakers, we, the National Movement Party, have declared December 17th-25 a week of anti-corruption and bribery and have held meetings in nine counties in nine days as part of this week's activities. However, the ruling Justice and Development Party is deeply disturbed by our meetings. He's uncomfortable because he's hurt, and he's hurt and he's hurt. In every area, everywhere, they make every effort to cancel these meetings of the National Movement Party, not to be given the rented and assigned halls, and they are under all kinds of pressure and activity to avoid meetings. Prohibitions are being brought to the news of corruption. The Justice and Development Party, who keep saying it came to power with national will, for some reason does not want to talk about corruption, bribery incidents, not just as of December 17th or 25th, but as of a past acquish. So, the AKP, which says it comes with national will, hides them from national will, and performs all kinds of activities so that the investigation of corruption and bribery incidents can't be investigated, that the public can't get information about this, and we can even say that there's an effort to cover it up at maybe 80 percent, 90 percent of its power shift, to avoid investigations, because there are very serious tremors in it, and it turns out that there's nothing in it that he wouldn't do to help himself out of this difficult situation. Any claim has become unquestionable in the judiciary or the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The government is entering practices that undermine the legal order and even destroy the law in order to prevent the judiciary from investigating. The court decides not to follow up, not to investigate, but to block a parliamentary investigation. After that, we're wondering what the outcome of the vote will be. The gag order is coming in. After all, when the police were chasing the thief, the thieves started chasing the police. In an environment like this, there's been a situation where you put a budget in charge of the Justice and Development Party, which is like trusting a cat with a liver, because there's no control, no transparency, no accountability, no accountability, but in the case of these absences, there's no responsibility.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0333par0290	Like the President!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0331par0291	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0334par0293	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. In the name of Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu. Here you are, Mr. Karaahmetoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0335par0297	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a promise against Article 7 of the 2003 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you and our working people with good evening. The 13-day budget marathon ends tomorrow. In these budget talks, the numbers flew through the air, through numbers and proportions, everyone tried to convince each other, no matter how much they convinced each other. The minister's ministry spoke of the economic well-being, growth and stability. Indeed, there is stability in the country, that's true; we know that our people are in constant poverty stability, and the stability in that sense is correct. There's talk of growth. Speaking at the General Assembly, Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu explained that by historical and historical figures, the growth in the AKP's power of twelve years was lower than its previous administrations. The economy talks about good, and for us to question it, we need to carefully analyze who this budget is for and who the ruling party really represents. In fact, the AKP is a representative political party of global capital and its local collaborators in our country, looking at the budget in that sense, by exploiting tradition, traditional lifestyles and beliefs of our people. If we try to explain this with an example: The number of dollar billionaires in our country, which are four, when they come to power, is 44. It's the most obvious example of the ruling party's fiscal policies, which have made the number of dollar billionaires, four, constantly becoming poor. This economic structure dies and remains our economy. There's a constant monopoly on a business, and those who are financially weak keep coming out of the way. There will come a day when even the collaborative capital will be eliminated after its subsidiaries have been purged, and it will be destroyed. The most obvious example of this is that in the nuts, which are the main source of income for my constituency and science Giresun, an important economic institution in the region was purchased by Italian Ferrero, and the entire nut trade has been taken over by foreign capital. We're always bragging about being the world's 17th largest economy here. But, really, if the people of this country, which is the 17th largest economy in the world, are ranked 77th in the world in terms of living standards, then we can clearly understand for whom this budget is being made. As a country of agriculture, Turkey is now a country that gives up agriculture and becomes an importer. In my recent budget talks, I told you that the land the size of 2 Thraces was abandoned and that we paid $37 billion for food and agricultural products in 2013. As the smaller Netherlands sells $105 billion in agriculture and food in the province of Iconia, exporting only $17 billion from fertile Anatolian soil is a sign of our concession to foreign capital in agriculture at the cost of coming to power. I don't have time. It's obvious who this budget will bring good luck to. Our hardworking people will continue to suffer as always. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0336par0308	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak. Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakak.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0337par0312	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 7th Amendment of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. I salute you all with love and respect. Since the day we came to power, the most basic principle of our party has been to serve the nation. The 2015 budget, which is the basis of our development move, with its 2023 goal, is capable of increasing the well-being of society, raising the standard of life, creating a stronger Turkey in stability and security. For 12 years, the primary issue of our power has been human and human education. Again, in the 2015 budget, we're giving the highest share to education, raising the total education grants to 87.4 billion dollars. This is an increase of about seven stories compared to 2002. We're saving 81 billion dollars for the health of 77 million. Based on the infant mortality rate among OECD countries and female mortality rates in childbirth, we've done what OECD countries have done in 30 years. That's not what we're saying, it's the World Health Organization. See, we've divided one third of the budget, or $140 billion, into civil servants and workers. We're saving 81 billion dollars for pensioners. This budget is also an investment budget. We raise public investments to 44.7 billion dollars by increasing our country's competition, reducing the difference in inter-regional development, and increasing the revenue share of local governments by 15 per cent. It's been said for days that our farmer is still in a difficult position, but the state has abandoned the farmer. We've saved our farmer $13 billion from this budget. Turkey ranked the 11th ranking in the agricultural sector, the seventh in the world, and the fourth in Europe, ranked the 1st in the 4th row. In the economy, we are the 6th largest economy in Europe. We are the 6th country with the most tourists in the world. We're about to implement the third airport, the third bridge, nuclear power plants, many more giant projects. Mr. President, good lawmakers, while acting on our goals and ideals during our rule, we did not have an understanding that, like other modern Western nations, we were only looking out for our own interests. We didn't agree to any universal rights taken from a Syrian, a Palestinian, an Iraqi. In this sense, we continue to teach human rights to its citizens and to its peoples who are forbidden to others. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you where our beloved Antalya has come from, while the epic fortress of the national defense, Gaziantep, is just a short time away from the anniversary of our salvation, December 25th. In the last 12 years, we've raised our number of universities to four, and we've raised our five thousand classes to 12,000. We have built 21,000 new dwellings, including 7,500 of them in urban transformation. We've given our farmer 896 million agricultural support in total. The number of tourists visited our city exceeded 156,000 in 2002, while 430,000 in 2014. We've employed 120,000 people in our organized industrial districts alone. So, thanks to these investments and all the work that's been put into place, Gaziantep is currently counting the days for the 6th, even the 7th organized industrial region. The children of Islam, and the children of Nurdakite, have no concern for the future, with the fields of industry that are to be opened. That's why Zeugma was able to enter UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Candidate List. He was able to make his name known to the world in his unique Rumkale, in his natural beauty and history of the Yavuzite. Karkamiş is striving to become Turkey's most tourist-friendly district. That is why the grapes and peppers of Islam were able to meet the whole world. The peanut of Nizip could become a brand. That's why he doesn't think about how I'm going to water my Oğüzelili and my car farmer's product. That's why people in the fast-renewed Hawkbey and Martytkamil have the thrill of getting back to their new homes. In short, the AK PARTY and Gaziantep look to the future with more hope than ever before. As Master Necip Fadil said, it takes ants to work as ants to leave artifacts like giants. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these thoughts, I thank everyone who contributed to our 2015 budget, my love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0338par0323	Thank you, Mr Bak Bakk. Congressmans, I'm going to the QA section. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0339par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when I'm with the Minister of Economy, I'd like to ask you a question. How does your government view the developments in this recent global economy? Does he see it as a structural problem or as a structural change in the global economy, or is America sanctioning Russia, lowering oil prices, raising FED interest in this period, and that's why there's a different situation... you, the government, the way you see it, is very important for the future. I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0340par0329	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0341par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the 21st century, the world's economic center of gravity is shifting to Asia. The world's economic center of gravity will be located in the North Atlantic in 1980, and in 2050 it will have shifted 9.300km east to the west of China, but countries that prepare themselves well for the Asian century will be able to take advantage of the economic possibilities provided by Asia, protecting themselves against the risks created by Asia. Australia's social democratic government co-operated with the opposition, issued the Australian Report in the Asian century, establishing 25 national goals that must be carried out by 2025, offering concrete policies that include developing Asian literacy. What joint work has your government conducted with opposition parties in the past 12 years to develop Turkey's Asian strategy? What reports did he publish about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0342par0334	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0336	Yes, thank you very much. What Mr. Kusoglu said, yes, today in the world, economic and commercial maps of the world are being repainted. As Mr. Erdemir said, the economic center of the world is following a process from the Atlantic Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean, from the United States to Europe, Europe to the Mediterranean, East to the Mediterranean, Asia, and Central Asia. Of course, the TTIP Agreement between the United States and the European Union -- half of the world's trade -- is not just a free trade agreement and a trade agreement, it's an economic integration. On the other hand, we see that America, along with TPP, which includes Japan, Korea, New Zealand and Australia, is blocked by two thirds of the world's economy, along with TPP. So the world is now going to commercially block out of the ideological bloc. Turkey is also very active here. Turkey is the only country in the world with a customs union with the European Union, and Turkey wants to be in the TPP, with the European Union, and it wants to be in the TPP, and it needs to be, and it has to be, and it has told the customs union and the United States everything that needs to be said. Currently, talks continue very actively, and besides, Turkey plans to end its free trade agreement with Japan by the end of 2015, our free trade agreement with South Korea is in effect; and at the moment, we continue our talks in services, agriculture and food -- to expand -- with Singapore -- and it ends fully with Malaysia. Our preferred trade agreement with Iran came into effect, and our Parliament approved it. Of course, with the European Customs Union under the leadership of Russia, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyztan, Armenia and Azerbaijan, this customs union, which will soon be joined -- products that are not under the customs union of Turkey, food, agriculture, metalurgy, services and investments -- we are about to officially launch our talks on free trade agreements. Of course, what kind of cooperation did the government have with the opposition in politics? It's the success of politics, actually. Currently, the government of the Republic of Turkey, which is formed by the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is holding these talks and continuing them. So, once upon a time, of course, it may have been the right word at the time, but Turkey now strives to be one of the countries that draws the commercial and economic maps of the repainted world. By the way, it was just my own personal mistake... which, of course, we don't have that in mind. It's a little difficult for us to understand that the word "indirigandi" is not in our vocabulary, it's because it's not in our language. Indira Gandhi, of course, is the Indian Prime Minister who served until 1984 in the 1960s and was victimized in the suiskasta. When we say Gandhi, of course, the legend that comes to mind is Mahatma Gandhi. Oh, it could be in your dictionary. If he's yours to download and remove, I return him to you, and if he's used in that sense, I return him to you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I just missed a...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0343	When I'm downloading, lifting, driving, walking...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0344	He belongs to you, this House is a witness.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0345	It belongs to you, to you, to you! You're taking felic felicity. Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0346	Here, during the coalition administrations, how to share the CITs, how to share the bench...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0347	You're taking those who say there's a thief.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0348	...how public banks are shared, the Agriculture Bank and the People's Bank...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0349	Why did four ministers resign?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0350	...it is clear that each of them has done a
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0351	Ask him what he's paying for it!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0352	It is obvious that the Bank of Foundations has decided to sell it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0353	Check him out, check him out. Don't run away from the account.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0354	If I put the Foundation Bank on the market and the society general gets a share of the $750 million treasure, the days are fixed. More than that... if it was used in that sense -- which I don't think is political -- would there be a bigger.indiragandi?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0355	Talk to your predecessor. Ask your predecessor!
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0356	Two nights in this country, the damage to the plunder of banks is $60 billion, and today its value is $200 billion.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0357	Why don't you ask him how he's doing?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0358	It's been asked, and it's still being asked.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0359	If you're asked, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0360	These are the ones you went after.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0344par0361	First give me the accounts of your own power.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0343par0362	Wherever he was going, he'd been all the way there, and he'd been accounted for one by one. The resources of this nation have been collected one by one. I'd like to pass along an answer from our Minister of Finance's office just now. ▪ Did 700, 800, 400 increase in the face? Yes, the S.S.K. pension is 257 liras in 2002, now $1.047 lira, and the nominal increase is 307 per cent. Agriculture BUG-KUR pension is 66 liras, $634 liras, nominal increase 863 per cent. Esnaf BUG-KUR pension is 149 liras, currently 849 liras, rising 471 per cent. The officer's pension is 1,312 per month, and the increase is 25 per cent. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has a few words to add.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0345par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0346par0366	The government has overused its rights, Mr. President. Just because the questions aren't being used in contempt doesn't mean the government has to use that time. Five minutes for the question, five minutes for the answer. Therefore, the government has completed its right to answer, and has used more than a minute. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0345par0368	Thank you. The answer is always longer, sir, to clarify the questions, to inform the General Assembly. It's already a minute and a half. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0347par0371	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, there's one question I've asked during the day that I haven't answered, and I'll answer it first.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0345par0373	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0347par0374	Mr. Akova, our Balıkesir MP, asked him a question about the Central Mosque of Çankaya. By the way, we've received some information from the Diet, and I'd like to share it. The Central Mosque of Çankaya is inadequate to meet needs because it has many congregations. The Ministry of Religious Affairs has launched a project to expand the capacity of the mosque according to incoming demands, and has applied for a license at the Çankaya municipality and is expected to be granted a permit. Thus, the mosque in question will never be destroyed and replaced by a commercial centre, only and only the mosque will be expanded. Mr. Kusoglu asked -- if we have time -- I just want to add that, of course, when we look at financial history, from the 1800s, it usually takes about ten years to get back to normal after a massive financial crisis of this kind. The assets were swollen, the private sector was collecting serious problems, and when it broke out, the public's problems, of course, were serious, the public's balance sheet was broken. Now, with the global crisis, though America has moved very quickly and organized its home, serious problems continue in Europe, which is important to us. In fact, the European-style Japanese deflationist process is in recession...
tbmm-2014-12-21sit04spe0348par0379	[[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In this way, lawmakers, the provisions of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act have been adopted. The bill is all open vote. The open vote will be held tomorrow's merger after the final talks. Thus, according to the programme, the final talks on the entire budget and the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill were held on Monday (December 22nd 2014) at 13. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
