tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 11th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda is the hand of Konya-Akşehir-Isparta where 18 of our citizens lost their lives. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, on October 31st, in the town of Çelebi, in Nasreddin Hoxha's hometown, the black clouds fell upon the poor poor and my hand lost 18 poor lives in a traffic accident, and 26 poor people were heavily injured, and their injuries continue to continue to be crippled and their life's dangers. Dear lawmakers, this is a disaster, and it's not an accident, it's a massacre. Serious service flaws have arisen in the preparation of this accident or disaster. It was once again understood that the life of the poor is cheap, the death of the poor is cheap, the wounded are cheap, the mourning is cheap. By the time we got here, AKP's economic and agricultural policies prepared this accident. From the villages of his village, from his field, from his vineyard, from his garden, from the villages of his garden, from the villages of Akşehir, and from the villages of Kundullu, from Turgut, from the suburbs of Akşehir. These were condemned to live in a single room with three or four children, a family under the age of hunger, and such a situation has produced subcontractor work as a result of AKP's policies. Slave labor is this: Because of the season, people who live below the age of hunger are condemned to slavery to collect poppy, beet anchors, strawberries, cherries, cherries, and apples. As a result of the organization of some people under the name of the chief, they are condemned to travel 80 to 100km away under conditions that do not suit humanity and to wages that do not suit humanity. This is the main reason for the accident in Akşehir. The person known as the uncle and the deceased in this accident is charging 50 lira per worker, which leaves 15-20 lira in his pocket as a shipping fee and commission, leaving the remaining 30-35 lira in his pocket at four o'clock in the morning, putting his meals in plastic bags, putting the dry bread, the hot onions in their shorts to cover lunch dinners, and filling 46 workers in a 1999 Iveco model vehicle. The reason it fills up like this is because if it carries 46 people instead of 23 people, the transport and commission per capita will drive it into such ambition. Now, the state's organs must control such a situation. On the way to the scene of the accident, Akşehir was moved from downtown. The city's police department has to control traffic downtown, the state has to control police, the state has to control police. If these were malfunctions that were not available for traffic, if they'd seen the vehicle with brake failures, door failures, engine failures, and saw 46 poor people in it, and fulfilled what the law required, this accident would not have happened. Therefore, the state has a severe service flaw here. The failure of this service is a deterrent to the Ministry of Interior in terms of administrative responsibility, which is head of local and central units. The Ministry of Interior is directly responsible for the death of 18 poor people and 26 injured as the political party of the Ministry of Interior and the Justice and Development Party, which is directly responsible for the death of 18 poor people. Since this error of service has been determined by the Court's decision, it should not be dragged into poor court. The victims must be paid in compensation by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, as required by the Fak Fuk Fund to be the state's social state. These aren't the kind of people who would hire a poor lawyer and pursue a trial. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because these are at least a thousand families who are seasonal in Akşehir, where AKP has condemned them to slavery and condemned them to live under the border of hunger. My dear friends, by bringing this to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have made a promise to make an arrangement for seasonal workers and to review the responsibilities of the state regarding the transport of workers, to prevent new casualties, and to give all of you respect, thinking that the Grand Assembly will pay attention to this.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second unscheduled statement belongs to Sivas MP Malik Ecder Özdemir (substantiated) Malik Ecder, who wants to talk about the problems of workers who were removed from the Kangal thermal plant. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise to bring up some of the problems that have been going on in Sivas. I hereby salute your high council. My dear friends, Sivas, have come to the top of our most emigrating provinces because of long-term unemployment and immigration. Unfortunately, despite the fact that there was a province in the twelve-year period of AKP ruling that voted higher than the Turkish average, our problems have not been solved, but have become deeper and deeper. Now, other unemploymentes are added to the unemployment. We have a Kangal thermal plant that was laid out in 1978 during the rule of the Republican People's Party. Mr. Hilmi is from the Kangal, they're here. When this plant was long profitable and was subject to privatisation two years ago, even though it was the last public institution we had left, we said that as Republican People's Party MPs, that it was not true, that we opposed privatisation, because we knew that each privatisation would lead to a new lawlessness, a new injustice, and new unemployment. Unfortunately, we couldn't keep our end of the bargain, it was privatized, given to a company. Now, the company that bought it began to shut down workers who worked here, citing other problems that had nothing to do with its production with the Kangal municipality before the year was over. As of today, more than 150 others have been fired from the work of thermal power plant workers. People with winter bread and vaccines have been performing in front of the plant for days, looking for someone to tell them about their troubles. Unfortunately, this problem continues to be unresolved. Again, there is an iron steel factory built in Sivas. It's called the iron steel factory, but it's a freak because most of the iron ore in Turkey is being removed in the Kangal and Divrik, but instead of building a factory that produces iron from ore, it was built in its own time. As a Sivasian, we agreed that at least a few of our people would get jobs. Shortly after this factory was built, it was also put on the market for a long period, and there was such a process that the factory changed hands over and over the years, unfortunately no Sivasian could figure out who the real owner of this factory was. Last we know, Erol was sold to a group of domestic companies. On the one hand, the factory works, but the employees aren't paid, and no employee's insurance premiums are paid. In Sivas, the tradesman is being defrauded, and in the exact sense of the word, an illegal working style is being taken away. And here we have 150 non-unioned white-collar workers, most engineers; they have more than four months to pay, the company doesn't pay. In Turkish, a sense of mob rule continues in Sivas. Since the people who are going to lose their job will not find another job in Sivas, and they will continue to work here in a slave system, with a sense of whether or not we can collect severance from the past. These two problems that fuel unemployment need to be solved quickly. We have another problem, my dear friends: We have over 300 inhabitants of the forest in Sivas, primarily the Kangal, the Divric, and the villages of Imran. Our people who lived here, from the past, would welcome this side of the country by cutting their winter wood out of the forest for a small amount of money they paid the government every year. This year, a county director of the forest in Sivas said he would not make this cut, he would build it, and he would sell it to the villager. We've tried to explain over and over again that such an application would not be right. We talked to the director general of the forest, we talked to the district manager, and he eventually gave up this imposition, but last year, he had to sell the wood that people bought for 49 lira for 150 lira -- a forest law, literally. Now, it's winter in Sivas. Because of this delay, people were unable to satisfy their winter wood needs, trying to move forest products to the village under the snow in the mountains. I don't have time, I know... There's a problem throughout Turkey, and it's happening in Sivas. A law has been passed on the hiring of the Mera. Really, the peasant could only be so miserable. People can't find the stuff to feed their cattle. The government has been subsidized to other cattle owners as if it has no other means, no resources. Now, we're going through a period in these villages where social peace is getting broken, fighting can happen, our people are being devastated. I know there's a lot of problems with Sivas, and I know there's no telling in five minutes, but I wish these problems would be resolved as soon as possible, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Mine Lök Akşak, who wants to talk about family-friendly policies. Here you go, Mr. White.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, as part of the EC PARTI charter and programme, we have been implementing and implementing family-friendly policies since our organisation. As our President stated, if a nation's family structure has collapsed, the nation has collapsed, it has a reputation for collapse, but the stronger the family structure, the stronger the nation is. The new Turkey, which aims to enter the world's top 10 economies, will, of course, do so by boosting the family's quality of life and strengthening the family's economy. Let's not forget that strong society goes through a strong family. The essence of our social policies is the protection, development and support of our families, which are the power of our society and shape our future. In 2002, there were 136 thousand people with less than $30 per month income per person, and in 2012, there were no more than $30 per person's income. In 2002, the population was 2.1 million people, with less than $65,000 per month, while in 2012 the population fell to 46 thousand. The number of people who had to live at an absolute poverty level with less than 129 dollars was 20.7 million in 2002, and that number was reduced to 1.7 million in 2012. For 2023, our main goal is to eliminate absolute poverty, based on rights and responsibility, with the complete social policies that bring the family to the center. We've increased the amount of resources used in the field of welfare and service 15 times. For the average 3 million children per year, we provided regular cash support for mothers under conditional education and conditional health care programmes. Around 3 billion 453 million aid was given during the 2003-2012 period. For 15 million students, free textbooks have been provided for more than 2 million households, regular help to burn regularly each year, and the average cost of meals for 600 thousand students per year in the school year. About 240 thousand wives per year are tied to a woman who has passed away for $250 a month. The Law on the disabled was first established in 2005, with 15 regulations and other relevant legislations, with nearly 1,500 articles of disabled law established in Turkey. Our family policy is based on improving the quality of life for disabled citizens and their families. We pay minimum wage per month for 447 thousand disabled people with family. We provide free access to private education and rehabilitation centres for all disabled children. Our families of martyrs and veterans are our crowns. In 43 separate legislations, the laws of martyr relatives and veterans were passed on 12/7/2012 by Law 6353. Since 2002, 600,000 homes have been produced through TOKI, and many of our families who have dreamed of buying homes have been made their homes at the centre of the family's most basic need. The production of housing for the sub-income group is a key part of our family policy. On the road to new Turkey with a revolution in health, the queues at the hospital doors are finished, our people have earned what they deserve, and this infrastructure has strengthened the family. Family education programmes have been made, especially in order to give families the capacity to solve problems within themselves and to meet the needs of the family. On 18 June 2013, Turkey signed the Council of Ministers of Family and Social Policy under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who was then our prime minister. The ASDEP, which began in 2012, visited homes of the Family Social Support Programme, aimed at reaching the family directly with the status quo. Our family-oriented work will continue with this system that our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu stressed in the Government Programme. From Diyarbakır to İstanbul, we are together in Turkey and we are a great family together, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0007par0051	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. We strongly condemn Israel as the nationalist Movement Party for Israel to enter Israel with its boots, a sacred place for the Islamic world. Let no one forget that people who don't respect other beliefs other than themselves are not respected. We want to be known that Israel's reckless act will be a scene of new conflicts in the Middle East, and that if their disrespectful behavior leads to new negative behavior toward Jews in the Islamic world, it will be theirs as well. We also remind those who equate Islam with terrorism who is the real terrorist. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0009par0060	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0010par0063	Mr. President, it is not acceptable for Israel to act in such a way that all the feelings of our Muslim brothers there would be hurt by the harshness of their horacy and religious beliefs and worship at the Masjid-i Aksa. Although it is the main commandment of all religions to respect the meetings of people of different religions, to respect their places of worship, it is not possible for us to accept such a practice being carried out by the Israeli state to the most holy sanctuary of our Muslim brothers, and I would like to say that we strongly condemn it as the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0011par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. The Israeli state, which has been launching inhuman attacks on Gaza, has launched a new attack on Palestine since yesterday morning hours. The goal of Israel's last attack is the Masjid-i Aksa. We want to state that we condemn the Israeli state of Israel as the Democratic Party of Peoples, who entered the mosque without any international rule of law, human and religious precision, using gas and plastic bullets against the Palestinian people. We want to express from here that we are not accepting these attacks in any way, that we are going to give you all the support we can to stand by you until the end of the trial of the oppressed Palestinian people. We have one Palestinian brother who lost his life during the protests, so we offer our condolences to the Palestinian people, and to the wounded, we pray for immediate healing from here. Again, today is the founding anniversary of the YOK. We're talking about an institution founded by the 1980 military coup to serve as an iron fist on free thought, scientific knowledge and universities. I'd like to say that the ECHR, founded in 1981 and under guardianship of the academy, should be removed immediately from Turkey, leading to the capture of free thought in Turkey, where all political parties in parliament have been given important tasks. Mr. President, lastly, I'd like to present to you the information and information of the General Assembly... of a member of the National Movement Party... about the heavy insults that a member of the National Party has committed against our party. In an assessment of the October 6th 7th Kobani events, the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) must pay the price. They won't get away with anything. We won't forgive them in any way. That's how they know. These have become more and more Greek marauders occupying Anatolia. He has attempted to threaten our party, insult our party, and make our party look like an occupying force. I'd like to say that in the last election in Turkey, which was held in Turkey, we strongly condemn these threats against a political party who received votes from all provinces, from all polls, the harsh insults and the ugly metaphors in any way. We've initiated the necessary legal procedures for these remarks. I submit this situation to the discretion and knowledge of all political parties and our peoples, especially the leader of the Parliamentary Movement Party and the leadership of the group. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0013par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that we are following the events at Gaza and the recent events at the Masjid-i Aksa. The Masjid al-Aqsa is an important place for the religion of Islam. What is happening in Israel, where there are holy places for all religions in that region, is atrocity for mankind on earth. I wish for the immediate end of the violence in Gaza, the Masjid-i Aksa, and other regions, the greater interest of the international community and its interests, and the immediate end of these events. My respects.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0014par0078	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Members of İstanbul MPs Mehmet Muş and Ahmet Berat Könkar's NATO PA membership; members of Ankara MP Emrehan Halcı's resignation from the Republican People's Party; İzmir MP Reza Mahmut Çürmen's 12th article dated 3/90; and the Council of Turkish National Assembly on the Order of Foreign Relations in accordance with Article 2 of the Law shall be held in accordance with the Constitutional Council of Justice and Development Group. It has been presented to your knowledge. (9/8) There is a resignation statement from the main parliamentary inquiry commission, which I read: I'm resigning from the Investigative Commission to investigate allegations of corruption and bribery involving the four former ministers I'm a member of. Yours truly. It's for your information. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the suicides committed in military barracks and the deaths of soldiers, we would like to ask that Parliament investigate the Constitution's 98th and Civil Code be opened in accordance with Article 104, Articles 104, Article 105, and Article 105. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] Soldiers who have done their patriotic duty throughout Turkey have occasionally lost their lives for suicide and various reasons. Although the number of these cases has been increasing year after year, the military courts have ruled that there are doubts about the unsatisfactory explanations for the families of the dead soldiers, which are unresolved, and cause of death. It is vital that the information given by the families of soldiers who have lost their lives in this way be investigated and removed from their doubts, and that the tradition of sending our people's children to the military furnace in peace of mind does not suffer. For whatever reason, it is vital that the deaths of our soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty be made clear, punished by the responsible, eliminated from the causes, and all these consequences shared with the public and cleared up suspicion and transparency. For reasons presented above and determined during the investigation, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research to determine the measures taken by investigating suicides and the deaths of soldiers in military barracks under Articles 104, and 105 of the Grand National Charter of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On September 5, 2012, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation into the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to investigate the reasons for the explosion at the military munitions depot in Afyonkarahisar and determine the measures to be taken. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sinop]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] 8) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] On September 5, 2012, Afyonkarahisar Ataköy was stationed in the village of Barrackik 500. In the explosion at Main Storage Command's armory, 25 soldiers were killed and four soldiers were injured. A number of questions have been raised in public on the level of efficiency of the personnel involved in the munitions sectors after the incident, problems from the manufacturing history of ammunition, problems from the processing of the design process, the fact that the shipment of ammunition was left late at night and the possibility of sabotage. All aspects of the incident have been made clear, the consequences are shared with the public, and the measures needed to be taken and enforced so that such deeply shaken society may never happen again. For reasons presented above and determined during the investigation, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental inquiry to determine the measures to be taken by investigating the reasons for the explosion in the military armory in Afyonkarahisar on September 5, 2012, under Article 104, and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is worrying that the Kaz Mountains, a source of history, culture and mythology, are facing the siege of mining and extraction companies. Moreover, recent fires pose a serious threat to the Kaz Mountains, both the clean, reliable source of the region's people and the world's second oxygen center. In every fire, the region faces irreversible losses due to the destruction of its earthly wealth. In this context, we propose the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104, and 105, of the 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate and examine the possibility of sabotage behind the fires and damage caused by the fires, along with mining and extraction activities in the Kaz Mountains. 19.9.2012 With all due respect. 1) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 14) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Let's go.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Mersin]] It is worrying that the Kaz Mountains, a source of history, culture and mythology, are facing the siege of mining and extraction companies. Moreover, recent fires have seriously threatened both the clean, reliable source of human water and the world's second oxygen center, Goose Mountain. In every fire, the region faces irreversible losses due to the destruction of its earthly wealth. The underground mineral reserves in the Kaz Mountains are of no value compared to the above-ground wealth. The Kaz Mountains are an important gene center with a significant number of industrial plants and animal beings within it; it is a source of history, culture and mythology; it is a growing area of the world's finest fruits and vegetables; it is the important center of our country's olives, milk and meat production; it is one of our country's unique forests. Many mining warrants have been granted in the Kaz Mountains, and the search for mines is still being destroyed by environmental and natural tissue and long-term threat to human and animal health. It is important to determine whether or not there are groups of interests or terrors behind the fires in the region. In order to ensure that the region's natural resources have long been consumed, left unspoiled, destroyed nature and not be left alone in poverty, it is imperative to investigate the damage caused by the fires and the possibility of sabotage behind the fires along with mining and extraction activities in the Kaz Mountains. To prevent mining activities and fires that cause irreversibly damage to the natural balance, we need to take care of our air, our water, our land, our animals, our people. Since first priority in state policy should be the protection of human and environmental health, a parliamentary investigation into the Kaz Mountains is needed to investigate and investigate the damage caused by the fires and the possibility of sabotage behind the fires, along with mining and extraction activities. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The People's Democratic Party has withdrawn the group proposal. Mr. Baluken, I assume you'll explain why.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0015par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as you know, the most important social problems in our country are the serious problems of seasonal agricultural workers. In particular, the last hand in Isparta (Isparta) was killed by 18 agricultural workers in a car accident, and we are all still regretting it. Today, in an effort to identify the problems of seasonal agricultural workers and develop solution proposals, we offered a group proposal to the General Assembly as the Peoples' Democratic Party, but before the group began its talks, we were given ideas to support our proposal from both the ruling party and other opposition parties, and it was said that a commission could be established by the proposals of each of the four political parties in the coming week. We welcome this with great pleasure, and in the interest of setting up this commission, we withdraw today's group proposal for next week. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0016par0291	Thank you. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday 6/11/2014, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 23 October 2014 and 996, the presidency of the TBMM was proposed to be read on 6/11/2014 Thursday (now) in the General Assembly to conduct the necessary research on the import shortages of cotton farmers and the amount of support of cotton farmers due to imports, to meet measures and practices that should be carried out. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP. Dear Varli, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0017par0308	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I'm speaking on our motion to investigate the problems of cotton manufacturers. I salute you all. We're going to talk about cotton that was once about poetry, stories, movies. So we're going to talk about the cotton we call white gold. And now, unfortunately, cotton has become a plant that almost hates bread, almost makes the farmer sick of it, drives the farmer away. This is because of years of wrong agricultural policies in this country, especially the result of wrong policies on cotton. Snow is an extremely difficult plant to plant, which requires constant attention, needs care, overstuffs and extermination, until it begins to grow in the soil like a child, from the day it begins to grow in its first seedling. But cotton is a plant that contributes a great deal to our country's economy. Today, cotton plants contributed the most to the growth of the textile industry in the development of the textile industry. Unfortunately, cotton has now become a plant in our country where farmers give up their bread and become afraid, especially after the wrong policies of the 2000s. Until the 2000s, Turkey was among the rarest cotton exporters in the world; it was among the countries that exported cotton after China; but today we have become the world's largest cotton importer since China. Of course the textile industry won't hurt, of course we have to protect the textile sector, which is our eyeball, but if we sink the cotton manufacturer while we protect the textile industry, then we destroy the cotton manufacturer, then we've done the worst in this country. Now, the amount of silk cotton Turkey needs for the textile sector is about 1.5 million tons. How much silk cotton is produced by Turkey? About 800,000 tons. If the farmer is supported, if the farmer is protected, can we produce 1.5 million tons of cotton? We'll make more. Turkey may become a country that exports cotton again, but you, as you've always seen the farmer, the stepchild, the farmer, the stepchild, but I'm going to say a heavier word for the cottonmaker, and I'm afraid my manners don't allow it, so I'm sorry. Yeah, can you push it that far, can you move it that far? Last year, cotton costs 1,800,000 liras in the old number, while cotton costs a kilo this year -- price of cotton -- $1,250,000, 40 percent loss of price. Fertilizer's up, diesel's up, labor's up, tractor's up, everything's up, but the cotton price is 40 percent lower than the price a year ago. Now, in these circumstances, how do people make money, how do they feed their children, how can they afford to plant cotton? Look, guys, if we give our farmer enough support, our farmer produces cotton and produces the world's finest cotton. Cotton imported to Turkey today can import and import cotton from any country that wants it, which is much lower than cotton produced in Turkey. So, just like the Syrian border, cotton imports have become a kevgir in Turkey. What kind of a thing is that, guys? So we have to protect our farmer so our farmer can produce and make money for what he produces. Do you know how much DAP fertilizer costs? With $1.5 million a pound of old money. How much is the cotton? $1,250,000. I mean, is that a good thing? Don't do this to this farmer, folks. So that's it, don't follow the policies that push the farmer away and push the farmer to the second place. Look again, friends: I just said there's a 40% difference between last year's price and this year's price. Now, 800,000 tons of cotton were produced, 1.5 million tons of Turkey needs it. Next year we won't be able to produce 800,000 tons of cotton because the farmer won't plant it, so it'll be loaded into corn, and then the price of corn will drop. You've already opened the way for imports, unlimited, free of corn, free of wheat, free of cotton, based on imports. Who's winning? The farmer of America wins. Who's winning? Greece's farmer wins. Who's winning? The farmer of India wins. Yeah, my farmer's capable of producing it and growing it. As long as you support the farmer. Fertilizer prices are gone, diesel prices are gone, but cotton prices go backwards every day. It's hard for a farmer to stand on a wheel like this. So, every time you go out: look, I tell you the solution every time: the solution is that once you put a fund, a fund for those who import cotton, a fund for those who have it, a fund for those who have it, a fund for those who have it, a fund for those who can afford it, a fund for those who can afford it, a fund for cotton imports. China left at the beginning of the year to protect its own farmer, and I won't import cotton. He said, "I'm not going to import cotton." So that's the first thing we're going to offer as a solution. Now, what's the second thing? The second issue is boosting support. Although the finance, the treasure, opposes the increase in support. Today, when palaces are being built, they have a thousand rooms, and they spend 1.5 quadrillion dollars there, the treasure is not against it, but the treasure is against the farmer's three or five cents. If you had protected as many farmers as you protected Reza Zarraf, our farmer would have been righteous. But you, Reza Sarraf, couldn't protect the farmer in this country. What does our religion say? It is forbidden. It says, "Eat, drink, but don't waste it."
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0018par0320	I wish they'd lay in front of the farmer until he lays down in front of Reza.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0019par0321	Mr. President, would you please step in?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0018par0322	Reza is your partner, don't bother.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0020par0323	While you're in this country, while the farmer's in trouble, you're building palaces of 1.5 quadrillion. Why did you have to do that, guys? Then the treasure isn't against him, it's not telling him anything. When he was General Manager at the People's Bank, the treasure doesn't object to those hiding money in shoe boxes, but the treasure against the farmer's three or five cents. Another solution is that we need to bring fertilizer prices, diesel prices to acceptable levels. If we want to plant the farmer, plant him, make him grow, if we want to protect the farmer, we have to raise the price of diesel and fertilizer to a reasonable level, otherwise this farmer has no chance of fighting the world farmer in these conditions, my friends. America is using too much subsidies to protect its own farmer. For him, cotton production in America is too much, cotton production in India is too much, and our textile industrialist is going to buy cotton from India, from the United States. Why shouldn't they work on our own cotton, so our own cotton is made of cloth? But the front of imports is unrestricted, because you don't put funds in imports, so it brings them from the country that he wants -- just like the Syrian border, like the kevgir -- imports them. So, friends, we need to protect our farmer. Look, every time you talk about fat seeds, you're talking about fat seeds, you're talking about incentives. Do you know how much soybeans cost? Soybeans are a first-class oil product. Do you know how much soybeans cost? Soybeans can't find buyers right now, buyers. It's a plant that produces first-degree oil, soybeans that can't find buyers right now. Guys, either stick to what you're saying, or I wonder what you're saying. We're farmers, we make them with our sweat, we put our sweat on the ground, and we want to make money from what we produce. We're not the kind of people who make free money, who are contractors, sir, who this government inflates and enriches. We want to plant the land with the sweat of our foreheads and earn the bread of our children. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0021par0329	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP, has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0022par0333	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the motion of the National Movement Party to conduct necessary research on the problems of the cotton farmer due to imports and the lack of support and to open parliamentary research on measures to be taken on this. I salute the General Assembly. Precious lawmakers, agriculture is a basic industry that provides for the people living in rural areas, especially in developing countries. In addition, the agricultural sector contributes to national economies by guaranteeing the production of the basic food materials of the people, providing employment for a significant part of the population, providing support for national income and exports and supplying and demand for the industrial sector. Support from agriculture to industry can be supported in creating demands for raw materials, labor and industrial products. Therefore, the development of the agricultural sector means the growth of the well-being of the people living in rural areas. Particularly given the generalisation of the level of well-being of agricultural workers compared to other sectors, growth in agriculture and prosperity in other sectors will increase proportionally and prosperity. Mr. President, our farmers again suffer from the structural shortcomings of Turkey's agriculture and the fact that it can't produce by the price and conditions of the world. As it is known, cotton production in Turkey is common in three regions, Aegean, Çukurova and Southeast Anatolia. The Southeast Anatolian region is producing more than half of the country's production. Şanlıurfa, Turkey alone welcomes 40% of its silk cotton production. The fluctuation in the world's cotton prices, the facilitation of imports, the fact that cotton manufacturer makes better money than alternative products, is the key reasons for avoiding cotton production. Dear lawmakers, in recent years there have been huge declines in cotton farming and production. In 1996, cotton was planted in about 960,000 acres, while in 2012, it was reduced to 505,000 per cent. Cotton fiber production increased to 98,530 tonnes in 1996 to 11,000 tonnes in 2013. Dear lawmakers, almost half of the world's cotton stock is in China's hands, and China's restrictions on cotton imports are among the reasons why cotton prices are down in international markets. In 2013, our farmer, who produced 550,000 tonnes of cotton, produced about 700,000 tons of cotton during the 2014 season. The reason for this increase in production is the prospect of rising cotton prices. While Turkey needs 1.5 million tonnes of cotton annually, it is a stalemate for the Turkish economy to stand before us as the biggest handicap of the current open economy, while a product, such as cotton, is not supported by the standards of the European Union and the United States, creating added value in at least 50 sectors. Machinery, implementation of modern agricultural requirements, the success of GMO-free production and achievements in decarnated efficiency have negative consequences in Turkey's economy and social life that are not expected for our cotton producers to be offended, to be removed from cotton. The fact that countries that produce cotton like the European Union and the United States support their own farmers, provide concessions to cotton exports, and the country's cotton manufacturer is left with only 55 cents' worth of support is the main reason for the decline of cotton agriculture and production. In the early 2000s, the number of cotton producers -- about 130,000 in Turkey -- dropped to 75,000 levels. The factory fell from 210 to 107 in 2013. For many years, our country's share of the world's cotton production has been reduced to less than 3% in recent years. The amount of currency paid for cotton imports from 2000 until the end of 2013 was $15 billion. Our cotton manufacturer produces the world's highest-cost cotton cotton, except for countries such as Bulgaria, Spain and Thailand, which make symbolic productions. According to 2012-2013 season data, 1 kilogram of cotton costs are 88 in the United States and Greece, 73 in China, 42 in India, 35 cents in Pakistan, 95 cents in Turkey. In the same season, the average price of cotton sales was $1.29, with a kilogram of log. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we can't expect a cotton manufacturer to continue production in an environment where cotton can be imported as much cotton as the zero customs tax is required, but alternative products are protected by customs taxes. Between 2000 and 2013, the price of diesel has actually increased by 74 per cent and the price of fertilizer has increased by 46 per cent and the price of heavy cotton has declined by 13 per cent. In short, the cotton manufacturer's biggest problem is cost. Our manufacturer produces the world's most expensive diesel. Clearly, Turkey's imports are increasing as cotton production falls. Snow has strategic importance for country agriculture, industry and economics. Imports are increasing as production falls in cotton. A total of 8,24,000 tonnes of cotton were imported from 2002 to 2013 during this government period, while 13 billion 82 million dollars were paid for the import. The world's cotton stock is expected to be 20 million tons during the 2013-2014 season in cotton, the main raw material in textile and ready-made clothing sectors. China controls 50% of this stock. In short, Turkey, which is an exporter in textiles and confection because it is a cotton manufacturer, has lost its production advantage in cotton because of the wrong agricultural policies, and has to import more than it produces. If these policies continue, cotton production will go down further, producers will go into alternative products, import bills will get bigger. The insurance companies, producers and industrialists who do not insure cotton stores and mills operating in the Southeast Anatolian region, particularly Gaziantep. "The cotton producers and cotton business facilities in the Southeast Anatolian region, especiallyGaziantep, are no longer insured by domestic and foreign insurance companies. I would like to point out, of course, that we find these problems very serious. Therefore, this motion by the National Movement Party must be supported, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0023par0351	Thank you. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Turgay Develi, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Develi.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0024par0355	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the motion to investigate the problems of cotton manufacturers and farmers. I salute you all. When it's called Pamuk, it's called Çukurova, and when it's called Chukurova, it's agriculture. From the day the Justice and Development Party came to power, its agricultural policy, economic policy, the liquidation of small farmers, and the transformation of large family companies into farms to increase production. In a sense, this applies to the fact that the World Bank's role in global finance has been fulfilled by the AKP. So what laws did the AKP take out of this parliament to purge Turkish farming, and I want to give you a summary of one of them, the Earth Law. They took out the collection of the small farmers, their fields, their small fields, their livelihoods, and prevented the division of inheritances, allowing these farmers, these small manufacturers, to liquidate from production. The second, by removing the Mera Law from those who were left behind recently, especially in livestock, not leaving the fields to graze the livestock of the manufacturers, they opened the meadows, the large mera, and on the other hand, they narrowed down the feeding grounds of small farmers, producers, animals. The 2/B Act also served. While the AKP is simply dissolving the small farmer, taking away their meres from him, borrowing his land with the Earth Law, on the other hand, trying to get them to kneel down and accelerate the liquidation as soon as possible. By taking away his property, by changing his hands, and by lending him money to provide for it, he speeds up the process. Most importantly, there are all the areas of Turkey that are happening today; through private banks, the deeds are now given to the farmer cash loans, the tractor loans, the other agricultural equipment credits, even credit cards, so that they can save the day to put it in their pockets, but in fact, these are the reasons that the farmers who can't produce enough, they don't have enough production sites to speed up the collapse. Of course, while liquidating what is available is continuing, continued increase in input prices, the failure of production products to meet the same value in the market also contributes to the farmer's growing poverty every day. For example, last year's price in grapes was $5, and now it's $2.5, and cotton prices didn't find last year's prices, and corn didn't. Now, agricultural loan co-ops are being used as a tool for the farmer's liquidation, to support the farmer, to direct him, to increase production capacity, to support agriculture loan co-ops that are organised for this purpose. So, friends, what happens when the small farmers in all the areas of Turkey, where they're employed, are being held here, are being purged, where are they going? They flow into big cities, slums, slums as the cheap labor force that the capital wants. Another sad fact is that small manufacturers who don't go to big cities, farmers who are disintegrating from production, are also becoming cheap, exploited labor forces for mining accidents that we live in these days. In Zonguldak, in Amasra, in Eregli, in all the mines of Turkey, almost all the workers who work in the mines are peasants. The peasant that was pulled out of the ground, the peasant that was wiped out of the ground, went down to the mines, at the nearest job, at the risk of death, down to the mines. We lost 301 miners in Turkey -- our country -- where the colony is so crucial; the wives, children, and families they orphaned are still crying blood. At Ermenek, 18 miners were still not heard from during the talk. The Minister of Energy is a body washer today in Ermenek. That he was involved as Minister of Energy, that he was in charge of the auditing agency...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0025par0364	What does that mean? Shouldn't the minister be there?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0024par0365	Sure. Mr. Secretary, the Ministry of Labor...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0025par0367	What do you mean? What do you mean, "dead washer"?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0024par0368	If you listen, you'll find out.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0025par0369	The men of Ermenek have not been removed yet, sir, I hope they survive.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0024par0370	The Ministry of Labor has closed down the mine; there is no oxygen in this mine. The air filter doesn't work in this mine. This mine is life-threatening for people to work, to produce. He said, "It's a document of the Ministry of Labor." But, you see, your Minister of Energy, the Tashkomuru Foundation, made exactly six times more than the illegal mine, where was this production made, without asking where it was made, and paid for it. If you, my friends, have those peasants working as slaves to the mine, who are forced to work as slaves, who are working in inhumane treatment, if you can produce them in closed furnaces and accept this, then you must not go camping in Ermenek, and do the washing of the dead in Ermenek. You do your duty, you get audited, you get audited. When they don't do that, now, they're coming out, and there's an accident in the outlet of monasticism. Friends, these documents are in the Court's documents. The Court warns, says: "Do you know what the Minister of Energy, who should be overseeing them, who can't be produced in these mines, can't be produced at any moment?" He wrote to the CIT, saying: "Don't meet the demand for inspections and investigations of the count. Why? They're trying to cover it up, they're trying to hide it. What kind of a thing is that, guys? You know, the AK PARTY government was going to investigate these accidents, and you were doing everything you could to prevent them. The responsibility for these accidents is the government's understanding, its logic, which legalizes them by accepting production from mines that don't do inspections, don't run inspections, don't run inspections. Friends, the workers who work in this mine are peasants. When there are no more fields to produce in their territory, when there is no more produce to produce, when there is no more land to produce, some of them go to cities, slums, and some of them try to get their alimony out of the ground, thousands of metres under the ground, with death on their hands. This system is unsustainable, this system is unsustainable. In order for these people to be rehabilitated, at least in order for small lands to be converted into large farms, families, farmers, as in other modern countries of the world, they need to be employed; they need to be funded by social responsibility, their families' livelihood. It's easy to finish the farmer, you finish the farmer, but the social problems that this is causing will bring much trouble to Turkey in the coming years, as is now in the mines. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0026par0375	Thank you. Fatosh Gürkan, Adana MP who has asked to be spoken against by the nationalist Movement Party group. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0379	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the mp group proposal. I'd like to pay my respects to our following MPs and to our dear, dear nation. Of course, first of all, as a member of the Soma Commission, as a member of the Soma Commission, I ask God's mercy to the workers who died in Soma, Ermenek, or expected to die in the mine accident; and again, in Isparta, especially to the workers who died during the transport, to the workers who died here, to their families, and to the head of our country. Yeah, we just had some reviews. And then there was the beauty of it. The speakers were our friends, the Adana MP. Of course, we have fifteen counties in Adana, about five or six of our cotton-made counties. I've been thinking about whether we live in the same city or not, as someone who travels through all of our five or six counties, almost all of their villages. Of course, in different times all over the world, as in our country, different sectors can be narrowed down from time to time in production, imports, exports, increases. This is perfectly normal, but especially in agriculture, when we look at the last few years, Turkey is now in agriculture, the 1st time of Europe. In cotton production, we're looking, Turkey is the 8th place in the world. I don't want to give out individual numbers; of course, our friends from the Ministry, who are also curious about the Internet can get these information in particular, but I especially want to give you the following figures that our government has supported the agricultural sector between 2003 and 2013, in nine years of the past decade, the agricultural sector has become a growing sector. Again, per capita income in agriculture has been raised from $1,064 to $3,475. Turkey has become a country exporting 1,681 products to 192 countries. Against natural disasters, you know, our government in particular provides 50% of the insurance benefits for agricultural insurance. Again, he's just been criticized, but massization reform, if the land continues to divide in this country, the farmer really is finished. For him, massification reform has been made in many areas in Turkey, and in Adana, especially in Ceyhan, Karataş, ovaries, Imamoglu, many of our districts, and hopefully it will be completed in many regions in Turkey. This is an important reform that prevents the farmer from being finished. Besides, my father was a farmer, and I'm a cotton farmer, and I'm a cotton picker, and he's been a farmer for years. I know the dates when my father bought 100 grams of seed for one Adana. Turkey didn't have a center for producing cotton or other seeds, it opened up in Turkey, the third largest seed-making centre in the world. Of course, everyone should be proud of them.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0028par0389	You've finished seeding, we've been in need of seeding, of the seedling of Israel.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0390	Besides, of course, if you look at the agricultural product, it was $36 billion in 2002, and it was $117 billion in 2013, especially agricultural production. Agricultural exports were $4 billion in 2002, $18 billion in 2013. Agricultural support was 1.8 billion in 2002, 9.7 billion in 2014. The gas support began in our time, providing $5.3 billion worth of diesel support from 2003 to 14 years ago. Again, fertilizer support was provided for $5 billion between 2005 and 14 years. So if we look at 2002, again, at $186 million, the premiums were $2.9 billion in 2014. So the government has provided significant support not to finish the farmer, but to make him even bigger. I've also represented the Agriculture Bank, which was 60 percent, the interest rate is now at 0 to 8.25 percent of the Bank of Agriculture. Again, we're looking at the amount of agricultural loans, which was just taken too much credit, which was called the farmer's end. As an example of Adana, I didn't get the number of tractors, the number of tractors: there are four or five tractors in every village in Adana; there are now no farmers in front of their homes, some with 3 or 4 tractors and the latest tractors. Maybe you'll say that you take the credit and you buy it with this. See the return rate of the loan, there were no 71 percent returns before, there are now 38 percent risk groups. So we've increased our number of farmers who use loans, buy tractors, produce. Again, in agricultural mechanics -- the other tools they use -- the government supports about 50 per cent agriculture. I, in particular, of course, will not give you the other numbers. Yes, Turkey is bringing imported cotton, but I just got the numbers from the President of our Trade Exchange. There are about 850,000 tonnes of cotton production this year, and Turkey's -- and TİK data in that direction -- has about 1,400,000 tons of cotton consumption, but in between, cotton is being produced, imported, and the textile and confection industry exports 26 billion dollars. So the cotton that was bought is not cotton brought for Turkish citizens in Turkey, which is products that are used here; we work, and we export money to Turkey. Of course, there will be imports, exports. The important thing is that you can balance in these sectors. At the moment, our government also provides very important support for the increase in cotton production, especially in many basins, 13 basins with support for cotton production and other studies. There's a lot of product support for log cotton. Besides, there's been an investigation into antidamping, especially new information, I'd like to point out. In particular, our government on cotton brought in from the United States, the relevant ministry is currently conducting a study, so that when the investigation is over, an antidamping application can be put into the cotton brought in from the United States, and the price of cotton produced in Turkey will also be increased. I mean, there's been this kind of development, and I want to make that clear. Of course, as a man of Adana, not only cotton, but in Adana, this year, thank God for the sunflower and the corn and the lemon and the orange -- many of the products produced by our farmer -- have actually earned a lot of money. They're looking for us, thanking us. I've been interviewing both the Chamber of Agriculture and our farmers and the heads of rooms and all of them. They're really happy in that sense. I'd especially like you to visit here. And you're this...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0029par0398	Tell me about the small farmers, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0399	I'm the daughter of a small farm family. Dad's not doing it now, he's retired.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0029par0400	It's past your father's time to buy one burma for 100 grams of seed!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0401	But there are still farmers in my family. I'm getting information from them, too. No matter what farmer, no matter who votes, the good money, the high income will make us all happy; it will make me happy, and I'm sure it will make you happy. Our desire is to increase the number of cotton manufacturers. Thirty-forty years ago, when we went to 50 years ago, we had a lot of cotton production, we had the same ratios, but I'd like to say in particular that the basin-based production may be less than thirty years, but the efficiency rate is much higher in terms of efficiency. I especially...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0029par0403	So, why did the Çukurova farmer give up cotton, Congressman? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0030par0404	Why did he go back to gardening?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0405	And I'd like to tell you specifically why the Çukurova farmer gave up cotton. We've got a congressman who's been farming here, giving speeches. And, of course, as someone who's worked in cotton production in the field, I'd like to say that cotton is a very high production and cost-efficient product. Sunflowers are products that are much easier to produce than this. The farmer, of course, gets into products where he'll get less tired, more money, that's a fact. I mean, one of our lawmakers is doing it, and you can ask our Adana farmer, but that doesn't mean the government doesn't support cotton. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We want cotton production to grow even higher, and I want our Adana to be a subject in the movies and in other areas.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0031par0408	Do you support me?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0032par0409	So you're supporting him?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0410	Of course, the government does their work on cotton production and exports and imports.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0031par0411	Let's support it. Let's support it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0412	I'd like to express that I'm not behind the proposal, that necessary work has been done.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0033par0413	But after I've said all this, I'm not. Can I be called, after all this?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0031par0414	Let's support this.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0027par0415	I pay my respects to everyone from here.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0034par0417	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0035par0418	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0034par0419	While speaking, Mr. orator, my hand in Akşehir has identified the people who died in the accident as Ispartalı. I'd like my word on my position to correct him, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0036par0420	There's no teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0035par0421	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0034par0424	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hatibeh, at the beginning of his speech, we thank you for the accident that occurred in Akşehir, where people living in Akşehir have been condemned to hunger as a result of the economic policies carried out by AKP. I wanted to correct them from their villages, from their homes, from their vineyards, from their gardens, from their gardens, from Akşehir, and from their gardens, to correct them as they were killed in an accident in the village of Isparta. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0037par0427	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0038par0428	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0037par0429	Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0038par0430	In his speech, Mr. Orator gave false information as to why cotton production was abandoned. I'd like to make a correction on that.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0039par0431	Everyone's got a different opinion.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0040par0432	It's my opinion.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0041par0433	Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0042par0435	Mr. orator said in his speech why cotton fields were abandoned, sunflowers and other products were easier, costing cheaper. Right, cotton costs a lot, but cotton is a product of economic value. Of course, our farmer sows sunflowers out of necessity because sunflowers are often planted in rural areas, but cotton is a plant in watery areas, and if textile industry has developed in this country, the only reason is cotton products. Our congressman gave me false information, and I made a promise to correct it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0041par0437	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0043par0441	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit01spe0041par0442	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to do it. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit02spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... Yes, there is a discrepancy among the Clerk Members. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0041par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the second vote of the National Movement Party Group's proposal, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Thursday 6/11/2014, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. In order to prevent attacks on the national values carried out through the media by Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan and 32 MPs, the parliamentary research motion for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 05/11/2014 is 1555 rows. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks in Thursday's unification of 06/11/2014. In favor of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are facing a systematic and decisive attack against the values of our founding leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the republic, who has been insisting on certain broadcast organs recently. We see that the attacks have become so extravagant that we can't express the words in everyday life without blushing. See, for Ataturk, for the time of Ataturk, they call the words of the literature based on lies and slander in these publishers the enemy of religion and of God. Ataturk and Inönu encourage blasphemy to Allah, and then the lawmakers begin to curse under the influence of this encouragement. They call them doormen with collars on their necks. For seven years, the enemies of God ruled this country. There are broadcasts on television that will publicly insult the value of 77 million. And the most painful of all, there's no honor. There's a moralistic point where you can publish it. Dear friends, of course we're having legal challenges about these things, we're applying to the Radio and Television Oversight, but we need to share one issue with the Turkish Grand National Assembly and with the nation. Sadly, these publications are not published by chance; in the background of these publications there is a systematic ideological attack, and in the background of these publications, it has a sad effect that a period of Ataturk hostility is in fashion, that Ataturk hostility is a prize, and that Ataturk hostility is an instrument of rise at certain points. Dear friends, this is a systematic attack. We're not just dealing with broadcasters, we're dealing with ideological hegemony in every field. See, what we're really trying to attack here is very clear, and we need to emphasize: the modernization movement that starts with Ataturk is to be destroyed, this is the struggle with the modernization movement that starts with Ataturk. See, what was done in the background of this, how it was brought to this day: The values and expressions of Ataturk have been taken out of the school books, destroyed, and slandered into the school books. Not enough, the most competent mouths of the state began to say, "Are we going to stand up in November 10th?" Not enough, they started talking about Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Ismet Inönuh. These were more than just an expression of random anger, they were part of a conscious and methodical ideological attack. Look, dear friends, valued MPs, the history of the Republican People's Party and Ataturk, is the date of the transition from absolutety to democracy in Turkey, and unfortunately, the situation we are in today in Turkey is the opposite; it's a sad situation where we're moving from democracy to absolute fast. Look, valued lawmakers, under the fundamental problems of a country is the absence of democracy. If you destroy democracy, if you can't build democracy, eliminate democratic rights and freedoms, that country can't solve its basic problems. That's where we live today, and where we come from, all of Turkey's fundamental problems, whether you take the Kurdish problem or take the issue of freedom of faith, are the product of regimes that put democratic rights and freedoms in Turkey on the shelf. So it's not the product of understanding that's driven from absolute to democracy, it's the product of understanding that's driven from democracy to absolute. Look, a painting has been created that you're listening to televisions, you're listening to authorities, including politicians, the Kurdish problem, including those who run the state, is spoken of, responsible for Ataturk; freedom of faith is spoken, responsible for Ataturk. Dear friends, put your hands on your conscience, the works of the greatest architect in this country, the architect Sinan. His mosques were destroyed between 1950 and 1960, not during the Ataturk period, nor during the Republican People's Party. But as if none of this had happened, we are facing an ideological struggle through lies and slander. Look, look at a Middle East near us, and look at Turkey, what happened in Syria, in Iraq, look at what happened in Turkey. If we have survived 90 years without being victims of interethnic conflict among ourselves today, this is the understanding of Ataturk nationalism that no ethnic group is privileged to; this is the magnitude of Ataturk. If we haven't been part of sectal conflicts in our own geography since 90 years, in Anatolia, next to us, Shii, Sunni, Alevi, Suryani, Yeziani, and the sects, while we are not part of these conflicts, despite all the strong provocations, we are part of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and -- let their souls be blessed -- the secular understanding of his staff, the secular Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, if Jurtta didn't see peace as a way to mock his understanding of jihanda, today the ruling owners would not be part of the Middle East swamp today if they weren't in the adventure and enthusiasm to make a promise. Look, this systematic and ideological attack is still going on. Now, there's an Ataturk Forest Farm, a rare place in our history. The Ataturk Forest Farm is a symbol. Ataturk Forest Farm is not the property of Ataturk. The Ataturk Forest Farm is the property of the nation, the symbol of the republic's founding philosophy, its image.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0045par0028	Any objections?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0029	The Ataturk Forest Farm is a demonstration by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, showing himself that a civilization could gush out of that swamp.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0046par0030	We built a civilized building.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0031	There was a great deal of civilization, a great agricultural operation from a swamp. Look, the Ataturk Forest Farm was the image of Turkey producing, we dry the swamps around the world, we create a society that produces agriculture and industry. It was the expression of its message, but you don't understand it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0046par0032	Okay, Turkey has spread.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0033	You only know how to use words. What did you do instead? You cut down the Ataturk Forest Farm, the forests, you destroyed them, you went back there and built a runaway palace, a thousand-bedroom, a million-and-a-half-million liras, you built a fugitive palace, at a price, and in violation of the law and ignoring court decisions. Now, the President of the Republic of Turkey lives in an illegal building, does it suit you? Is it appropriate to have the President of the Republic of Turkey live in an illegal building?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0047par0034	No one will be able to sit in that building for you, that's all you care about! You won't be able to sit in that building, people won't, because that's your problem!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0048par0035	Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0036	Now, of course, the President owns that illegal building. The thousand-room runaway palace, which is planted there today against Ataturk's reproducing message, is the message of Turkey's understanding, which consumes without producing the power of today's AKP.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0047par0037	You had a hard time, didn't you? He hasn't given it to me in 60 years, and he won't give it to me again. He's not going to give you a place in that building again, people, it's the property of the people!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0038	That's the point. The founders of the Republic said that Turkey was producing, and those who wanted to destroy the republic built the monument of Turkey, which was consumed without breeding.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0047par0039	It's people's property, but people won't give it to you to sit there! That's all you care about. People won't, they won't. You're shouting because you know it, that's the problem.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0044par0040	Dear friends, look, there's a Bani of the Fugitive Palace sitting there now. The Bani of the illegal palace sits on the illegal construction site, destroying the works of the Bani of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0047par0042	You're against the bridge, you're against the Presidential Palace, you're against Marmaray, you're against everything!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0049par0043	Keep the peace, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0050par0044	Mr. Sergeant... Mr. Sergeant...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0045	You created such a Turkey. Look, this systematic attack is an attack on all the democratic values of Turkey. It is so organized that today, the king has come out and is disturbed by the young man smoking on the balcony, saying, "Do you smoke in front of the president?" Drink up, sir. He didn't say that. He said, "Can you drink in a closed place?"
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0052par0047	Health, health!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0048	No one has to prostrate to the President.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0052par0049	This country has laws, no smoking indoors, you have to defend it!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0050	The period of prostration to the king is over, and no one is a servant of the king.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0052par0051	There's no smoking indoors, there's a law.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0052	Now that they're up, they've ordered it, they've fined it 6,000 liras for smoking on the balcony.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0052par0053	It's forbidden, you raised your hand on the ban here and the Republican People's Party raised their hand on it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0053par0054	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0055	Why? Because His Majesty has instructed you to fine this place. The cigarette smoked on the balcony in the open air was fined 6,000 lira.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0053par0056	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0054par0057	Didn't the CHP raise their hand on that ban?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0058	Whatever you do, the young men of this land will not serve you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0054par0059	Get over it. You don't even know what law you're touching. CHP raised its hand on the law, on the ban.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0055par0060	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0051par0061	My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0056par0063	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal from Shuay Albay, Elazığ MP. Here you go, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0067	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI group against CHP's proposal to open a group of investigations to determine measures to prevent attacks on our national values by the media. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. First of all, the occupying and cruel Israel, who again practiced state terror, occupied the Masjid-i Aksa (Aqsa) with their dirty feet yesterday morning, and showed the world once again the paintings of shame, showing its true face on its dirty side. Israel will soon come to know that persecution will not be continuous, nor will it be able to withstand injustice. I strongly urge, condemn, curse, and say to the oppressors, "To hell with the wrongdoers." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have just expressed their views on this proposal on the stand, and have once again presented the classic CHP landscapes that we know of. But, I have to say, you have to see, the understanding that runs the CHP, the executive friends, the MPs, and the CHP must see this: no more bread for you in this country, no more bread for you, look away.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0058par0071	Oh, it's over.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0059par0072	Let's all take care of it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0073	So I'm very clear that this door is already closed. As a nation of all nations, together with the saints of this nation, with the AK PARTY of this nation, you should know that the issue of Polemics is not going to come to you, because it's a constant value that you're going to consume.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0060par0074	Can you explain what we're running out of?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0061par0075	Politics isn't a bread market, it's a good management area. We don't do politics for bread, and if you do, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0076	That's exactly what I'm saying. Yes, it's the time to produce it; it's the area of producing politics, and it's the business that's done through political values, and if it's done through values, it means something, or you have to see that some institutions don't come to a point by consuming certain values. Our proposal and our proposal on this subject is that you really give up this approach to chaotic images at the point when it doesn't give you results, and it doesn't bring you to a point, and it's about putting people back together again, at the point of consuming certain values. That's what's right, what's smart and what's good for politics, and I sincerely believe that the CHP will retest this situation and re-check this situation once again, and then take another look at the situation. From the first day the AK PARTY was founded and from the day it took over the first power flag, it had total ownership of the values of this nation and the country and developed a model of policymaking and designing programs for itself, based on the values of the nation. And while he was putting forward all these approaches, he had always declared that he had taken you to the center, and he had shown it over and over and over again, and he believed that it was a serious job to build through that reality. That's how the whole world recognized the AK PARTY staff, and hopefully, it'll keep getting to know them. Again, from the first day we were established and took power, our Prime Minister, especially Mr. President, we expressed all the ranks of the EC PARTY as our greatest achievement of the Republic, and we did it from the heart, and we did it bravely, and we said it honestly. While we considered and expressed the Republic as the greatest achievement, we also considered its founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, to be of total value, the common value of this nation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0062par0080	▪ Who said the two drunkards?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0081	We have expressed our sincere opinion on this matter by declaring it from both the council stand and from various points of the land to our beloved nation and the whole world, and we have no concern about that. Once again from here, we don't really need to prove anything about it, but we have to declare it once again. Yes, the AK PARTI has become a political movement by its stance, by its stance, by its stance, by its actions, by its actions, and this political movement has accepted the republic, the democratically crowned republic, the Veteran Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades and this understanding as a common value; it is firm in this regard, and it has demonstrated its firm and sincere standing; let there be no doubt about it. Of course, the EC PARTI, who expressed the republic as the greatest achievement and acted on it, demonstrated another thing: CHP's position to categorically compare all its definitions and definitions of democracy to its own. Yes, the republic is win, virtue, but at the point of crowning the republic with democracy, we made a decision, and we set out like this, and we took important steps to set an example for the entire world, at the point of the republic being crowned with democracy for nearly thirteen years. From the very first day, the EC PARTY has sat on this axis, especially on this understanding of legislature activities, and has also shown an important approach by removing all obstacles to freedom, removing all obstacles to democracy. Yeah, we're... Is that why you're watching him insult Ataturk, the TV station? Look, friends, Turkey is a country of freedoms and democracy. Where there's a legal state, there may be people who don't think like us, who have different opinions. What we've been saying since day one is, look, right now in Turkey, there are friends, valued MPs, hundreds of television channels.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0063par0087	These are the channels you financed!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0088	I'm very clear that hundreds of people on television at the same time, thousands of people, political, economic, cultural, social, sporty, different areas.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0064par0089	What's RTÜK doing?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0090	For God's sake, can you tell me if it's right to accept that a conversation has been made where there are hundreds of television channels and thousands of speakers who will address the political institution and connect it?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0065par0091	The TV station you financed!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0066par0092	There are the conquerors, the conquerors!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0093	There are thousands of speakers, people from every different opinion, every different political opinion, every different ethnicity, coming out and expressing their thoughts. Our basic approach is to make it very clear that the AK PARTY has accepted freedom of thought and expression as essential.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0067par0095	Is that why the PM's still has a tracking committee, to tap everyone's phones?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0096	As he laid the foundation of freedom of thought and expression, he also limited it to the freedom of others. Our constitution, our laws, demonstrates how to limit this issue. I don't need to tell you this. We've been saying this from the beginning, that everyone has freedom of thought and expression in this country, that they can express their thoughts, but no one, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, can insult our republic and the common values of this country, and no one can see that right in itself.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0068par0097	Bravo!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0098	We have expressed our determination in this matter. There have been debates in Turkey over the political history that began with the Republic. These arguments are bound to happen. No one should be offended by these discussions, but the main problem is that no one, especially the republic, should be in a word or action that can insult the spiritual person of Ataturk, any of the people who work for this country. The way to do this is clear, if a speaker is going outside the law when expressing his views on private televisions, through other ways, if he is acting in areas where the law will meet him, if he is acting in criminal activities, it is clear that he is. Turkey is the state of law. Turkey is also processed in this regard. There may be practices about the implementation of justice that we all complain about from time to time and are uncomfortable...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0069par0099	RTÜK is not working Mr. Shuay, RTÜK is not working, RTÜK is AKP satellite!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0100	...but in general, when it goes against the law, the practices are evident in the law, and the state's prosecutors will make necessary prosecutions regarding it, and there is no doubt, if there is such an insult and an act of moral character will not fail. We sincerely believe in it, and we have always expressed our sincere view of it. And look, in the information I've received about the RTÜK (RTÜK) before I gave this talk, the issue is that the meetings in RTÜK have been held at RTÜK (RTÜK) about the political thoughts or opinions of people who have a different opinion on a private television channel, and that the view of these meetings should be severely punished and met with a function. However, there are also discussions about the punishment in return for this action... And again, quite frankly, we know that our friends from CHP who were elected there were unable to make decisions because of their actions in the vote, and you know it, and I'm very clear. We're doing our part on the RTÜK apps, and RTÜK's going to keep doing it. And we're not having a corporate problem with that either. Yes, like other state institutions in Turkey, RTÜK will do its duty, in relation to the alleged action...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0070par0103	They're all your members. Why don't you interfere?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0104	...if there's any insult that we won't accept as an explanation of the idea, it will be done accordingly. But other than that, when Turkey is a state of law, is it acceptable for politics to take any other approach to law from here? Otherwise, there's no need for the state of law. And you can appreciate -- and I've just expressed -- that hundreds of television stations at the same time, thousands of speakers from thousands of TV stations are making a lot of statements about issues related to the future of Turkey. Now, is there any way that we can say, "Don't have these conversations that will prevent all speakers from talking about it?" You're talking about something that doesn't suit the nature of things. But Turkey is the state of law. Again and again, as of today, the issue of the bet is on the RTÜK agenda, RTÜK has held a meeting about it, but, as I said, unfortunately, our friends from the CHP quota, in terms of information that has been passed on...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0071par0106	You look after your own friends, your own friends!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0107	Look, I'm not saying this to make an accusation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0071par0108	RTÜK has also returned to AKP's studio. Don't do this!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0109	Guys, look, please, I'm not here to make an accusation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0071par0110	Our friends are doing their duty.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0111	However, the meeting is being held. We can't get enough numbers at the meeting. I mean, you can't make a decision, but right now...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0072par0113	There are two of us, Mr. President, two of us.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0114	...this matter and the board will do the research on it on the agenda. But I'll tell you this: in Turkey, it is the EC PARTY that has national and spiritual values and is political about it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0073par0116	He's being corrupted, isn't he? Bribery, corruption, bank records, shoe boxes...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0057par0117	We will never be able to accept the explanations of the CHP, which are almost largely unaware of these values, and we will never find them right. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0074par0120	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0075par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0074par0122	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0075par0123	Mr. President, there is no bread for the understanding of the People's Party of the Republic. There's no bread for you here. The Republican People's Party is testing this situation...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0074par0124	Yes, please, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0075par0125	Because of the bullying, I would like to make a promise to our Vice President, Bulent Tezcan.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0074par0126	Mr. Tezcan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0076par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank our member of the Justice and Development Party for the recent words of our fellow MP, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the republic's values from the stand. Which means if we fight any longer, we'll be able to draw our friends to that line. Now, dear friends, first, there is a false statement about the RTÜK (RTÜK); while these publications are being discussed on the Radio and Television Supreme Council, especially those who have gone from the ruling parliamentary seat of the Turkish National Assembly have agreed that the punishment should be lightened. On the contrary, they've come to the conclusion that a more severe sentence should be given in repeat form of the same crime, while a lighter punishment should be imposed. That's why there's no decision. Don't make excuses for anyone, the meetings' records are there. Stop our representatives from acting politically here, and the representatives who are going through AKP's quota are acting directly as the spokesman for the power wing. Second: There will be no bread for the People's Party of the Republic, our friends from Ataturk. We are not looking for bread from Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's bread is eaten by 77 million people, and those who are ungrateful deny it, and no one else. This nation is eating the bread of Ataturk. And we are not disbelievers in it. We know who denied the bread of Ataturk. We are in a hurry to protect Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the republic's values, we are in a hurry to keep Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and the republic where it deserves to be, and it is good that there is a Republican People's Party, or today, it may not be possible to understand and know where those systematic attacks that we just said will go. Thank you all, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0077par0137	Thank you. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of the Republican People's Party, who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0078par0144	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the views of the Republican People's Party's National Party on the motion to investigate the attack on our national values by the press and on the parliamentary investigation of the premises. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the most important theory in political sociology about state formation is the social contract. The transition from the tribe to the nation and the tribal administration to the state is based on social reconciliation and social agreement. People are supposed to come together and say that we have to live together and have responsibilities. Let there be a will above our individual wills that ensures that they are punished, even if they are not brought; that preserves the lives of us, ensures the safety of property, establishes rules, supervises, and punishes. This will is called the state. In drawing this framework, the state must consider both the freedom of the individual and the common law of the nation and the common values created. It's also a public demand that the law of individual and nation be balanced and everyone observe this vital balance, and it's a state's lifeline. Maintaining these values, keeping them alive, and transferring them to the future is not just by force of police and police. And here I want to underline the importance of national education in both the family and the schools. Not just individuals, but civil society institutions and organizations and media broadcasters, who are responsible for informing the nation, have to maintain these values, national values. Is that how it works? I'm afraid not. With the political strategy and educational errors of the AKP administrations, the balance, which is called "life," has been corrupted and has been reduced to decades of traditions, customs and beliefs. We will face our past, we will rewrite history. With a lack of courage like this, we have been slandered and slandered by big words that have left the clean past of the Turkish nation. Our values that hold the nation together with their chorus. The AKP has made our history disputable by embodimented, well-equipped figures, equipped with exemplary Prophetic morality. No matter which ethnic origin, which religion comes from, the Turkish nation is called the common name, we have been questioned by the collective acceptance of the nation until today; 36 subdivisions, Alevi-Sunni, Turkish-Kurdish dissolution have been ignited, and all of these discretions have unfortunately been made by hiding behind the lofty concepts, such as justice, freedom and democracy. As of this point, the 19th May spirit, which saved the chastity and chastity of the Turkish nation from the claws of the seven duvets, gave it its freedom and independence, has been brought under the influence of our republic's fundamental acceptances. He dedicated his life to his people, expressed that his greatest quality was the innocence of the great Turkish nation, and was rejected by Ataturk and his legacy, who sought to give our nation a national identity. Alperians, Islamists, leaders of faith, Mevlanas, Dolphins, Hadji Bektashi Parents, were tried to be discredited. The meaning of our national festivals, in which our nation's joys, in which we embrace and embrace, have been marred, and their bottoms have been emptied. The moon star al flag was called the Bayrak fetishism, which was called the flag's flag, and the flag's flag's flag's flag's flag's flag's love for our young were canceled, and the flag's flag's flag was sent down. The trust of the martyrs has been neglected and allowed to be insulted by our veterans who have dedicated their body to their nation in front of television cameras. The pawn of Western imperialism, the pawn of Godless, bookless, Marxist terrorist Kurdistan, who gave up his life in the name of the nation, the state, and the great religion, who gave up his life in the name of the state and the great religion without a wink, the loss of the people, the loss of the Marxist terrorist PKK, for the sake of three votes, the parents of those who raised good children to his nation and the fathers of the villains were held together by the pool media, this bastard stand, let not the mothers weep, nor shed blood. On the most meaningful day of our republic, a parade of terror centers was carried out. Bloody villains are showered with flowers and applause like soldiers of a victorious country on a land watered by the blood of martyrs. In an unreturnable, dark environment, the PKK's auction, the enemy of state, nation and Turkicism, has been tried to be innocentised by columnists bought and paid for by imperialism. The Turkish nation, which has served Islam and its values for a thousand years, has been seated at the negotiating table with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), who has drawn weapons on itself and on its nation and slaughtered 40,000 children. Not only in the field of government, but in the purest, purest of Turks, in the field of their beliefs, their beliefs were confused, their beliefs questioned, and even the size of a partner. The person, who is the prime minister and is nothing but a mortal, is blessed, considered to be a worshiper, who is described as the Most High Creator, who is called the Most High God, is to grieve God. Thank God for the Prime Minister's prayer. The depression continues because the Prime Minister is not thanked. It has been referred to as the Age of Ignorance. Even in denial of the words "introduction" to Islam, the prime minister was reduced to "spoke" as if he were the second prophet. Shall we count more? The order of the Qur'an has been removed from adultery as a crime, the production of pork has been released, December 17th-25, and the thefts and corruption has been legitimized. The doors of the court are closed, watched the people's property be robbed and turned onion by a handful of thieves. Our mosques, which are the home of God, have been used to plunder zoning and public lands, and our Muslim nation's respect for the mosque has been abused. The interest, which Allah has forbidden, has been given by fivefold increase in interest. The Great Middle East Project was co-chaired, and the blood of 1.5 million Muslims was stained with blood. All these wrongs, insults, partners, siphoning the law of his own nation into imperialism, dividing and dividing the nation, the power trumpet, which feeds on public resources, was written and made by visual media. This trend has been distorted in public in newspapers and television from the pool media to even search for the media after 1918. That's exactly what the crusader mentality wants in our country. People were asked not to know the truth, not to see, and to fall asleep. For this reason, newspapers, televisions have been marketed, AKP militants have been appointed to media as managers, authors and painters. The lines of the Conqueror have been established. False reports have been served, which have previously condemned those who speak the truth, have been carried out by the AKP government's demands and accounted for. Drugs, terrorism, illegality, ratings are the main topic of television shows, where our national values and language have been deliberately massacred. These issues, of course, will be retrialed tomorrow in public conscience and courts. It is our duty to preserve these values that keep people together. We don't give up one person because others want us to, nor do we negotiate those values. We wait for our demand, our struggle, our ownership, the mutual concern and struggle of all parties. The fact that all parties have these values will, of course, strengthen our national system. Just as nationalism is not the monopoly of a party, so is the right of Ataturk, secularism, republic. The defence of Islam cannot be a part of a party. Religion belongs to God, and this religion is honored by the entire Muslim Turkish nation. Both forms of abuse of these values are wrong, both forms are weak. Those who stand up for religion must keep it in the right place in the fight against an atheist terrorist organisation of the Muslim Turkish nation; those who qualify for the republic, secularism, and the flagship of Ataturk (Ataturk) must stand firm against the PKK's political rhetorical solution project, the national and unitary state, the national identity. The fact that the press has served everyone but the Turkish nation, and especially imperialism, is that the error, ignorance, even betrayal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the Republican People's Party has submitted a motion to investigate the cause and the consequences, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0079par0168	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0080par0172	Mr. President, I have received word on the CHP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Gazi Mustafa Kemal and his comrades founded the republic in a struggle for salvation in this parliament. The Republic is our common value. The Republic must have the common value of the nation by being transformed into flesh and blood by democracy. As it once was, the republic is not a regime where only part of the marginal elite is represented by jacobens, it should never be. On the contrary, the republic needs the armor of democracy. The stronger democracy gets, the stronger the republic gets. Here, the AK PARTY is a party that gives the republic the armor of democracy, the crown of democracy. The Republic must be filled with cumhur, not against the republic. Yes, there were once those who used the republic against the crowd. However, the republic must be ruled by the republic and joined by the republic. Here, the AK PARTY has made the crowd a partner in the republic and democracy. The service to the Republic is not by dry, kof, empty rhetoric, but by serving the country, making national income over $10,000 per person. This is what the AK PARTI governments have accomplished by serving the republic, by crowning the republic with democracy, and by leading our founding leader, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Mr. President, the valued MPs, the group's proposal, as I just said, appeals to all of our common values. However, I hope to see you today, we'll make it legal. There's an offer again on our pharmacists, and hopefully we'll make it legal. Therefore, the agenda is predetermined. As the agenda has been set, however, I submit the group's proposal to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0081par0178	Thank you. I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0082par0182	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit03spe0081par0183	However, there's a roll call, I'll grant it. Mr. Gök, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Develi, Mr. Captain, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Öner, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Acar, Mr. Türmen, Mr. Akova, Mr. Dudu, Mr. Sun, Mr. Sesam, Mr. Haberal and Mr. Özsel. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the vote of the Republican People's Party group's proposal was voted, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit to your votes the Republican People's Party Group's proposal that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Members of parliament, the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three new issues with the General Assembly. Now, I'm going to have these papers read, and I'm going to present the third reading to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Antalya MP Menderes M. According to Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Turkish National Assembly of Turkey, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (Akdeniz-PA) will be issued for the discharge of its membership in the Turkish Delegation, which is dated 28/3/1990 and available to the General Assembly under the 12th Article of the Law declared by the Justice and Development Party Group, according to Article 2 of the Law. It has been presented to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Mr. Issaka Sıdıbe, president of the Financial National Assembly, visited our country along with a parliamentary delegation, with the 13/10/2014 date of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council, and decision 77. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly, according to Article 7/7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall be offered a parliamentary seminar titled "Providing Safe and Healthful Employment Conditions" in Paris, which shall be held by the European Social Condition Subcommittee for Social Affairs, Health and Sustainable Development Commission, on November 10, 2014, by the European Social Conditional Commission, on November 10, 2014; under Article 9/20 of the General Council of Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission, and the participation of İstanbul MP Turkan Mountainoğlu. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't accept... Sustained. Mr. Halaman, you have a motion to make upon your petition. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0083par0044	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, while parliamentary research motions are being discussed here, against the National Party's proposal for cotton, the current ruling deputy said the cotton has no added value, so the sunflower has been planted instead. We're from Adana. When it was said, cotton would come to mind, but so far cotton -- whether it's industry or a wild card -- has been brought down in this period of power. He's got 55 cents in support. The woolly cotton is now 1,200 liras. Cotton's off the agenda. So the cotton from the United States, from Greece, from the future, came from the internal process and disappeared in Adana. So the Adana MP's explanation for the cotton is that a plant, which has no cat value, was planted instead by the sunflower.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0081par0047	Yes, thank you. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked President of the Turkish Health Institutes and a draft law proposal similar to the Law Charter on Some Laws and Laws, and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. 3- Established President of the Turkish Health Institutes and Some Laws and Laws Instructions Acts Against the Constitutional Code and Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs; Established President of the Turkish Health Institutes; Established in Some Laws and Laws Orders Orders of Law and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report (1/937, 2/2229) - Report (1/937, 2/2229) [[S. Number 615]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Commission for Information and Technology and the Justice Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, and Development and Technology, which are ranked in the fourth place. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 640 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0084par0072	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute you all. I'm going to share with you what we have to say against the Istanbul Research Center Bill, 640 rows. Let me make it clear: there is no justice in Turkey with this law, there is no independent justice, there is no impartial judgment. There is no reasonable trial in Turkey. There is no justice in Turkey. There is justice in Turkey that doesn't work on judges, prosecutors, staff. Decisions aren't fair, bribes work well. I don't trust your judgment, I don't trust your judgment. If I bring my money, I'll bring my money, brother, if you set up a special court for me in Turkey, if you set up a court for the Istanbul Financial Center. If there's a trial there that I want, I'll come here as a reason. No, I'm not coming if you're not. Global capital companies say. That's what it's called: I don't trust your state, I don't trust your law, I don't trust your court. You don't have justice, you don't have justice, you don't have impartial, independent, you don't judge with justice, you don't judge with universal justice, you don't have fair judgment. Yes, friends, indeed there is no justice in Turkey, there is no criminal justice. There is no justice in prisons in Turkey, there is no justice in the execution of sentences, there is no justice in private law, there is no justice in trade law, there is no justice in their courts. For that reason, not only was this Law of Investigation established, but before this law on the Istanbul Financial Centre, you know, a compromise mechanism -- for the resolution of the inconsistencies -- was set up outside the CMK, the Penal Code. I don't trust him either. So I accept that the discrepancies you brought out of the CMK should be resolved in front of the arbitration committees preferred by the parties rather than in front of the court. I don't think his understanding is enough. I mean, other than that, I should have a private court. What's the privilege of that, brother? Their privilege is their money, their dollars, their euros, their pounds? So when it comes to law, justice, money, dollars, euros, that's it, I don't have justice. Come on, we'll set up any court you want. Let Istanbul be the center of that court. Then why are there lawyers here, why are there lawyers, why are there judges, why are there prosecutors? No, guys, let's not kid each other. Look, I'll give you two examples. Civil organizations put it together like this, compared the state's justice spending, they said, what is it? The Constitutional Court says that when you look at public expenditures -- they've counted the institutions of justice -- 25 million, the Supreme Court 130 million, Court of Appeal 83 million, Court of Justice 141 million, Justice Department 7,48; Judges and Prosecutors' High Council 47, Ministry of Finance -- I don't know -- 214, Finance Ministry Forensic Aid 42, CMK payments 21, European Court compensation payments 11; Criminal execution agencies 1.571. The budget for central justice spending, it's not all a palace, you guys, you see? It's not worth the price of a palace. After you've invested so much in justice, in high judgment, in the State, in private judgment, let's take a look at where you're sitting. Let's get a number on the number of prisoners in 2014. Currently over capacity, 151,339 prisoners, prisoners in Turkey. Three people in a bed, three people in a friend prison, execution, three people in a bed on a shift. In this criminal execution system... every day, you're getting messages, e-mails, phone calls... one more year of probation, please. Please correct the execution regime. Are there any cases of execution? He says, "Do you have a pardon or not?" People are miserable, rotting inside. The people in there have rights. I assume he's coming to you as much as I am. So, does the Justice Department work for this? No. Who does he work for? Justice in Turkey works for global capital, dollars grow, euros increase, pounds increase; justice exists for this, justice works for this. Look, do you have any idea how much the European average for court and prosecution spending per capita -- except for aid? 52.6 euros. Do you know how much in Turkey? 15.9 euros. Turkey is the world's 16th largest economy, which we can address as the Neosman, an empire that shakes the jihad, we can get up from here, we can pray, we can pray, I don't know, we can scream where we're going to conquer, but it's not, it's true, it's true, it's true, it's when it hits the numbers. Look, let's give you a little comparison on the number of judges in 100,000, and you'll see how big our justice is: 885 judges are falling in Norway, 144 in Germany, 55 in France, 33 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 22 in Russia, 11 in Turkey. Now, 11 judges fall to 100,000, you understand? Don't commit any crimes. If you've got uncles behind you when you do, you can get rid of corruption files, but it's not always uncles; the powers change, we've seen, when they change, they process files this time because it's 20 years old, and that's what they do after that. Now, I'm going to pass, how much was the net annual salary of a newly employed judge in 2010 in Europe? One standard, 25.348. How many friends in Turkey? 16.390. The more money, the more meatballs. You're gonna give that judge this much money and keep his salary low, and then you're gonna keep your job high. Look, I gave you the net annual salary of a new judge. Now, from here, I'm going to put it into a different, more interesting situation, to spend year-on-year, inmate: average number of employees per 100 prisoners, the number of execution officers per rehab 1, 100 prisoners is 26. When you hit Turkey with this, Turkey goes down too. Let's take a look at the investigative phases of the prosecutors' investigations, and there's a comparison between 2002 and 2002. The government, the AK PARTI, is very fond of it: 2,935,300 cases dropped during the 2002 investigation phase of the republic's prosecutors. Twelve years have passed -- you're the winner -- and let's look at the down payment, 6 million 679,973. So, these are the numbers now. Now, let's look at court and prosecutor's expenditures per person: the number in the illegal national product, except for legal aid, the 2010 share, the European average is 0.32, we're looking at Turkey -- they wrote very small, but I found it -- 0.21. Now, in the first degree district courts, the number of judges and prosecutors compares 2002 to 2002, to 2014. Thirteen years, guys, we're here, and now what? 10,460. Do you know how many more? Two thousand. Two thousand more, 2,000 judges, prosecutors, 2,000. You got a lot of convictions, a lot of world records, not enough, you wanted to get in the way of an individual application, 2,000 judges, prosecutors. How many cops, how many gendarmes, how many imams... how many, I'll give you. If you ask how many new agencies you've built, they're over a million, over a million, my friends. Now, in the public spending of legal aid per capita, the European average is 7.70 euros. Do you know how much Turkey is? 1.10 euros. Now, is there justice here? No. There's no quick judgment here, is there? No. Is there a judge here, the D.A., in all these files, that he can get the job done quickly? No. Is there justice here? No. If there is no justice, the global capital says: "Build me a private court. You will command me." The government says, "The government is making a bill." Sir, we've sampled this study group from the German Association of Investigations, from the Czech Republic, from where, from here, I don't know, from here. One of our delegations went to Hong Kong, where they had very, very good talks, and there were similar courts, he says. Now is not the time to make fun of us, friends. Look, I'd like to make a few more interesting points for you. When the Hong Kong Research Center was set up, they said, "Let's take a trial." They said, "How are we going to get this court? Let's start with the Prime Minister's budget." Let's give it from the Prime Minister's budget... to run the budget of the judge. He said, "No way, brother!" He said, "It's all right, it's all right." He immediately judged it and brought it. There's a New York Convention that's become an internal law policy for the first year of the Prime Minister's arbitration board -- the law of legal reasoning -- for the arbitration regulations. You're looking, there's no reference here to that in this private court. You see, one more thing: in Germany, these arbitration courts didn't work, they didn't hold, they didn't use. We're looking right at the Istanbul Financial Center, where they set up a court like this for their own interests. Now, let's look at some of the other functions of the research center here: Now, capital finance, I'll come with my technology. For the resolution of incompatibility, I'm looking at, in Turkey, you have the neutrality, the long trial under the name of secrecy... Well, these, these criteria don't exist. I want to keep my money safe. I want to protect the high tech that I'm going to bring there, and I want to take what I've won. I don't trust you either. Then if you set up this independent, autonomous decision center, I will come, and if you don't set it up, I won't come. Now, they've got some interesting law proposals for this public opinion center; here's what the bar presidents are going to show a lawyer, something. I mean, they're going to remove the right to defend that board of inquiry, the right to trial with the deputy, and all these cases, and they're going to bring in specific, self-instructional elements. Now, when we look from here, we, the People's Democratic Party, as a party that represents labor, as a party that advocates independent justice and justice and fair trial, we rebel against the reign of this dollar, eurono, global capital, friends. We don't want justice like this, we don't want justice like this. Such justice, private justice, private court... if you establish private courts, on the will of this House, against the will of this House, you will establish courts outside the Minister of Justice of this Assembly. Like what? Here, who held the longest National Security Council meeting? Mr. President has been elected. At a meeting that lasted 10 hours and 20 minutes, the new President identified Turkey's threat elements, its danger factors, all of them in its own way; here it was irony, here it was separatism, it used to be communism, and now it was parallel -- fighting -- and they put it in and they form a red book, a red Constitution, a National Security Policy Document. Friends, it is the word of this nation that is unconditional. The word of the Lord is a lie. On the will of this Assembly, on the will of the MPs sitting in those seats, on the will of those parties in parliament, there is a secret Constitution above the Constitution of the coup of this Assembly. They say this secret Constitution is a state secret, that the Constitution is the secret of the state. AKP's ministers will sit down, AKP's bureaucrats will sit down, they will all know this secret Constitution, this secret Red Constitution, all of them will know the book, all AKP people will know the book, it will be secret, it will be secret, but the three parties with a group in parliament will not know! You'll call it democracy, you'll call it justice, you'll call it the new Turkey, you'll call it the justice of the new Turkey. From there, you're going to say how to shoot, break, distribute those who are politically opposed to you as you remove the security packages, their precautions, and then, at the HDP headquarters, you're going to dare our party manager to come in and cut his throat with a knife, you're going to protect them, you're going to support them...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0085par0094	Come on! Aren't you bored?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0084par0095	...you're not going to take out the holes, the ones behind them. Then the prosecutors of this state won't go to the scene, they won't investigate, the prosecutors won't see, and after everything that's happened, we'll bring in a motion to investigate. In Bingol, the chiefs of police will be killed, and you will make a decision of secrecy, and you will not bring them into the light, and then you will preach justice here. Justice is nothing more than a dirty concept, mentioned only by your name, I'll tell you that. You can try to manipulate private capital, industry, justice, Turkey's laws with secret constitutions, but its name is not democracy, it's a ceberut state, it's a state of dictatorship, it's a state of violence. In this Parliament, we have promised to build the new democratic constitution of the new Turkey, which is the debt of all of us. In a new civilian, democratic constitution, there will be no secret constitutions; there will be no special courts; every citizen will benefit equally from justice; whether it's a pasha child, whether it's a minister's child, whether it's the President's child, they will be as equal and equal as the children of the miners who died in the mine collapse, in the order that we miss. The rest is lies, your kingdom, your lies. We'll call it no until the end.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0086par0098	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0087par0099	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0086par0100	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0087par0101	Sir, the speaker claimed that we had dared to attack HDP. I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0086par0102	I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0087par0107	Dear friends, Mr. Hasip speaks very excitedly.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0088par0108	I get excited about things I believe in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0087par0109	When you talk so excitedly, you can get out of rational evaluations. Excitement embraces you, makes you transdantal. First, they know how we condemn the attack on HDP. It's an extremely shameful and ugly attack. HDP is a legitimate political party. Of course, the government's position on this kind of dirty, ultimately studied and revealed the reasons behind it is clear. The person who committed this crime was also caught at the scene, and the front and the back is clear. From here on out, you're doing these things for power, you're daring. I don't find the argument and approach too peaceful with political kindness. I mean, you can get excited, but no matter how excited you get, you don't have to miss that political courtesy. Now, about the daring: the events of October 6th, you know, the calls of HDP (HDP) and the events that followed were very dramatic, and then, as I saw it, the HDP also regretted the consequences, found them inappropriate, condemned them, and called them on November 1st, this time they didn't happen. One naturally thinks that the HDP makes a scene when he wants to, and there's a question mark that says, "Does he stop them when he wants to?"
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0089par0112	By the way, I'd like to know what the government is doing.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0087par0113	I mean, you've done a job in public with this kind of hoarding, and as a result, there's been no incident on November 1st. Really, on November 6th, 7th, did you ask for these events as a result? People ask how you stopped it on November 1st if you didn't want to. You need to be careful, and you need to stay in touch with kindness. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0090par0116	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0091par0117	Mr. President, he's made an open assault on our group, Mr. Vice President of the Group.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0090par0118	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0091par0119	The HDP makes a scene when he wants to, not when he wants to.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0090par0120	It's not like that.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0092par0121	That's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0091par0122	That's what he said, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0090par0123	Did he take it out? He said, a question mark like that... he said. I mean, here...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0092par0124	He picked on the band and picked on me.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0091par0125	There were incidents on October 6th, 7th, and on November 1st, there were no incidents. So here, the HDP is making a scene at any time...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0092par0126	To my group and to myself.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0093par0127	I promise you two minutes for bullying, Mr. Bauken. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0094par0130	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Group Vice President's statement against HDP has begun with political courtesy, and we are sorry to hear it again. You of all people should know the difference between October 6-7 and November 1st. On November 1st, there were no police bullets that sparked the spark on October 6th or 7th, so there were no incidents. The first spark in October 6th started when a 24-year-old boy was killed by police bullets in Varto. In Kurtalan and Dargezit, it began with the deadly intervention of the rangers with deadly weapons to the mass who gave a press statement. You of all people should know that. We're tired of saying that here all the time. If you have a claim, bring in the chronology of these events, put them in front of you. You have a responsibility to the public, to our people, to where it started, where the spark crashed from, where the fire came from. On the other hand, we find it positive that you are condemning the attack on our party council member, our friend. The Prime Minister's reprimand, the government officials' search for our party in the past. We find it meaningful with their phone calls, we find the capture of the attacker significant, but we don't think that this attacker is on his own. We remind you that the background of this attack has been revealed immediately and that you are responsible for making a statement to both our party and our people, to the people of Turkey. I'm saying that when you go in and look at the statements of Mr. President, Prime Minister and Government officials from Google, you'll see that there are some mistakes being made here. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0095par0135	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0096par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0095par0137	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0096par0138	Mr. President, by expressing myself directly, the speaker is not aware of what he's saying because he's excited.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0097par0139	Mr. Hasip, aren't you excited?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0095par0140	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Two minutes for bullying...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0098par0143	Mr. President, is the vice president of the group just discovering me? I came to this bench with the people's votes. I defend the right and the right cases with enthusiasm. You just know? I'm not such a whiner, so some people might be whiny.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0099par0144	Mashallah! Mashallah!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0098par0145	I'm just gonna say one thing, I'm gonna say one thing, look, listen up. If you have the heart, you are the power, over 40 people lost their lives in the events of October 6-7, so let's investigate with these Parliaments one by one, the prosecutors, and let's find out the truth. Are you in? That's one. If a president forgets he's the president... at the openings, at meetings, we can't imagine what would happen if a president of the city, who represents the unity of the state, if our patience is overwhelmed. What is it called with the Turkish language? Mr. Prime Minister, an hour later we found the perpetrators in Bingol, we punished them. What is it, not to encourage the execution of four people in a car when there is justice in a legal state, while there is a prosecutor, to be executed without a trial, to commit crimes, dare and attempt to commit crimes when it is possible to arrest them? We'll make him pay with a Minister of the Interior. If he says so, what is it, not daring? All who encourage racist, militia, rangers, JITEMIST criminal networks have been bold, wrong. Now, we have to get back from this. We're talking about the truth here, you're misunderstanding, you're misunderstanding because it doesn't suit you. If he had the guts, a prosecutor would have sent a statement about that President, about the Prime Minister, about the Minister. Those prosecutors would go out, one by one, find the perpetrators of those events, put them on trial. Where there's justice, where there's law, where there's no law, you keep blowing your horn, and that's the end of it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0100par0147	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0101par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0100par0149	Please, Mr. Bostanci, point taken. Sir, what did he say?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0101par0151	Sir, you're targeting the HDP. Mr. Idris Baluken has just stated that I want to speak about him.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0102par0152	That's exactly what I said. That's the idea, I said the idea, and you answered it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0100par0153	I promise you your position, Mr. Botanci. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0103par0157	Sir, I don't understand why friends from HDP should be thanking you, but they speak with a bit of anger. I mentioned a public hoard. In fact, they've had their own efforts since October 6th and 7th to get rid of this hoard, and I appreciate that effort. HDP means, as a result, we called for democratic demonstrations on October 6th, 7th, but this looting, looting, coastal, death, we absolutely deny them.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0104par0158	We've said it 100 times.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0103par0159	Even the demonstration of this effort shows how powerful, action and hoarding are in public. I gave one more opportunity to the HDP, and Mr. Baluken came here, confirming that there was a distance between them with violence, terrorism, non-democratic elements, but I couldn't understand why he did it in anger. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit04spe0105par0161	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. Closing Time. 17.31
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0105par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume negotiations with Bill 640 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul MP, who now wants to speak on behalf of the Milliyetci Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Basesgioglu.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0106par0010	Mr. President, we're here to present our views on the Milliyetian Movement Party's bill for the establishment of the Research Centre in İstanbul. We hereby salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who follow us on television on behalf of the National Party of Action. Again, at the beginning of my words, we ask God's mercy to our citizens, who have recently lost their lives in various parts of our country, and we offer our condolences to their relatives. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Members of parliament, as it is known, the indictment is to bring legal discrepancies to a conclusion by judges or judges, which the parties will choose outside the state's judiciary. Our legal system is not a stranger to the investigation, but it is the first trial trial started in the 1850s. Today, our legislation includes provisions and institutions relating to prosecution under the laws of the Laws of the Courts of Laws, International Investigations and the Union of Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges. In our country, however, there is a very limited application for arbitration and alternative discrepancy solutions. The number of investigations in our country is estimated to be between 150 and 200. As the National Movement Party, our primary preference, whether domestic or foreign, is to resolve the state's judiciary. We also prevent the creation of new institutions to resolve some discrepancies in order to reduce the burden of the judiciary. Therefore, it is urgent that a system of justice be established that ends the illusion of trust that the judiciary is currently passing through and works with justice and speed. As a matter of fact, alternative conflict methods are not sought in countries where national judiciary works smoothly. Mr. President, after drawing this general framework, I'd like to share with you some of the issues we're missing, in order to further mature the bill and better the establishment of the arbitration center. The bill stated that an independent and autonomous institutional arbitration centre, which can compete internationally, is intended to be created in Istanbul, but the bill is far from meeting those features. Because in the formation and functioning of these institutional structures, the government shouldn't have the effect of running them. However, when we look at the components that form the general board of the arbitration centre, the institutions are all made up of public, state-owned, or public-owned professions. Only the institutional structure of the centre is created by the bill, and there are no material rules to be implemented in resolving conflicts. Although the inquiry is on issues that they can freely save on the sides, public order should be specified as to what issues, such as general immoralities, should be excluded from the scope. As such, there is a gap in the bill. The statement that the material rules of operation will be made at the inspection centre gives the authority to regulate the provisions at the centre. The centre, which does not even have the authority to impose regulations, is almost authorized to make laws. We recommend that the International Court of Law shall be referred to, at least in Turkey and for conflicts with the element of alienity, as well as the Law on Laws of Laws of Laws shall be referred to in my internal investigations, to the recognition of Foreign Responsibility Decisions outside the country, and to the introduction of the New York Conventions on National Law and Usul Laws shall be carried out. Under Article 6 of the bill, the determination of the members of the organisation to be represented in the general assembly envisions a disparaging, inequal selection method. We demand that this be corrected. Dear MPs, the basis of this bill, as you all know, is the International Financial Centre Strategy and Action Plan, which was announced in 2009. This plan was also part of the Ninth Development Plan, and the establishment of an arbitration centre in Istanbul was one of the priorities. If it comes to Istanbul, if it's an inquiry centre, and it's an Istanbul financial center, if you'll excuse us, we need to say a few words about our country's socioeconomic indicators and Istanbul. It is a coincidence that today the Prime Minister shared a program called the Artificial Transformation Programme with the public. My dear friends, first of all, the issues in this program are not new; they are issues written in the Tenth Development Plan, written in the government programme and repeated in the government programme, so it is wrong to present to the public about a new structural reform programme, and when we look at its contents, it does not have the depth to address the economic challenges that we are going through now, and it does not have the depth to help us. We see it as a wish of good faith, or there are sometimes letters of goodwill to international institutions, which we see as a letter of goodwill, designed to be written to international institutions, the IMF, or the World Bank. Today, in fact, the Turkish economy has very life-threatening problems, and there are issues that need to be discussed in the very short term. For example, the European Union and the United States Convention on Transatlantic Trade and Investments are about to sign. This concerns us very closely. According to the minister's statement, a development that will cost us $3 billion a year and the minister says: "We will suspend the Customs Association. This is a very serious development. I wish this matter had been discussed at such a meeting. Again, there are measures the European Union has imposed on Russia, and it concerns us closely. We hope, we go forward on textiles, we export in the food industry. But the figures now show that this expectation has not been fulfilled. In this speech, the Prime Minister has only read the book half as far as we think, in the economic department, he hasn't read half of it. What's the unread part of the book, and in a few words, I'll present it to you. For one thing, in the other Turkey, in the real Turkey, we see that poverty and poverty have not been reduced. In Ermenek, we experienced dramatic events, suffering, in the accident that broke all of our hearts. But it was a picture reflected in Turkey, my dear friends. We have an old uncle, an old Anatolian woman and grandchildren with him. From their superiors, Turkey gave a picture of poverty. He still has black tires on his feet and nylon shoes on his grandkids. Turkey's poverty scene in the 1950s. Where's Karaman? The centre of Anatolia is the country of the prime minister, the country of the minister. This landscape of poverty is not only in Karaman, it is in Mardin, it is in Urbana, it is in Van, it is in Giresun, it is in Kastamon, we see this picture of poverty in every region where the rural region is dense. Our income, the added value that we've produced, unfortunately we haven't been able to move forward with fair share, and we haven't been able to eliminate the difference between this revenue distribution. What else is in this book? There's a debt. Our debt is no longer translateable, both on a personal basis and on a corporate basis. Credit debts and other personal debts of our citizens are no longer available. Our savings rate is at the lowest point in the last decade, 13 percent, 14 percent. During the coalition governments you didn't like, Turkey's savings rate was around 24 per cent and 25 per cent. It's a very low rate. How is this country going to invest? It needs to be borrowed, and when you borrow it, its costs go up. We've revised our growth goals, reduced them; we've reduced their 2014-2015 goals to 3.2, and we've reduced them to 4. My dear friends, Turkey needs to reduce unemployment to four, five, six percent each year, even to maintain its present level. If you don't grow at 6%, you can't reduce your unemployment rate from 9% to 10 percent, but we're drawing our economic growth goal by our own hand by 3 percent. This can't be the goal of an 80 million-dollar country to grow, but politics and, unfortunately, wrong choices have brought us to this point. Growing up... we haven't been able to change this composition in years. What is it? We have an import-based, internal consumption-based growth essay. I'm afraid we haven't been able to address the growth content that breeds and employs. Unemployment: Official figures are now at 9-9.5, but these official figures do not reflect real unemployment in Turkey. There are alternative unemployment calculations, our friends know them. According to alternative unemployment calculations, the number of unemployed people in Turkey is 5.5 million. The proportional number is 16 per cent, 17 per cent. Now, we've met a new element, a new actor. Who? The refugees from Syria, the people from Africa. They did a survey, and three-quarters of them want to go into the employment market, and they want to work. Two million people make three quarters of one million 750. Let's leave the 750, one million people, five and a half million more people are entering the labor market. So your unemployment rate is not less than 20 per cent, and the young have finished college, where we have all of our money, where we have all of our money, where we have a school, where we have a job. Our young people are going door to door, where the degree he received is not in the labour market, and there's no industry for it. We neglected industry. The engine industry of growing up. In 2013, growth in the manufacturing industry is 3.7, down to 2 percent in the same quarter of 2014, so let's see what parameter we see, friends, we see a going back. We can't live in private. We need to be careful with global competition, we need to be careful with those parameters, we need to speak their language. What is Turkey's place in the global competition of the Turkish economy? There are 144 countries, we are 45. We have 100 countries ahead of us. Who's above us? There's Poland, Lithuania, Latvia. That's the international competitiveness of a country with so much potential? For him, these programs, which the Prime Minister announced today, are only an internal document, which is not the answer to our enormous economic problems that I'm trying to introduce these few important parts of it. Guys, let's be realistic, the economy doesn't work with envy. Look, the Fed stopped buying assets, they're going to raise interest. It's about to hit the developing country's economies. How can we take precautions? Everyone does this with their ears. In fact, some economists are linking it to the Prime Minister's statement, leading the program. The schedule of this program was perhaps to be announced later, but there are also comments that these decisions were first announced so that the markets would not be exposed to any tsunamis due to these FED decisions. So we need to get our feet on the ground, and we need to share with the public the full disclosure of the measures taken without concealing the facts from our citizens. Yes, and a few sentences about the socioeconomic outlook of Istanbul, I would say that in the words of the great Ataturk, the ornament of the Turkish country, the wealth of Turkish history. • It is a saintly part of our country, the heart of our economy, the heart of our trade, the heart of our industry. More than half of the direct investments in our country are in Istanbul, there are around 17,000 foreign capital companies from around 40, 41 banks' headquarters in Istanbul, 41 per cent of the total deposit in Turkey in 2010, and 35 per cent of the total loan is in Istanbul. So many more values can be added to these values, and I don't want to take up too much of your time. My dear friends, this Istanbul has its good advantages, its disadvantages, its woes. What? The traffic problem still continues, which annoys Istanbulers. Big projects started with good intentions, wanted to be finished, but still going on. Istanbul has a new population of 350,400,000 people each year, adding a Kırşehir, a Kastamon. It's very difficult to build infrastructure to develop this much. For him, Istanbul must, and surely, need a metropolitan plan. The earthquake -- God forbid, we've suffered so much -- is sometimes voiced, but we still haven't been able to restore the stockpile of damaged buildings. We see the Urban Transformation Project making modern sites, pooled villas. These Urban Transformation Projects need to be finished as soon as possible. There are still deeds problems in Beykoz, Sarıyer, and Umraniye. These things need to be resolved. The security issue is one of the most important problems. We lived on October 6th, 7th. It grieves us all to see a metropolitan landscape where innocent people lose their lives, their possessions, their vehicles are destroyed. The security of Istanbul's city will be even more important in the coming days. So we're going to have to underline this very carefully. Then, the issue of immigration: in some way, both in Istanbul and throughout Turkey, the administration must carefully put it ahead. It should also be prevented from allowing zoning authority to create city rants and attract public resources. Social benefits and social services: Friends, this is a very human thing. We must not abandon this to local representatives of political parties, to the mercy of city services, to the mercy of their officials and to the mercy of their people, and we must get rid of it. We need to implement a modern social welfare policy worthy of human dignity. The issue of foreigners and asylum seekers is also important for Istanbul and for other provinces of our country. We need to be disciplined in order to carry out our human duties without disrupting the security and security of our cities. Yeah, my time has gone a long way without realizing it. So I can't share all my notes with you. My dear friends, here's what we've come to in the event of becoming the Istanbul financial center: 71 action plans were announced when this strategy came out. Only 36 of these 71 action plans took place on paper today. We received the Ninth Development Plan, and the four - year period was not enough. Now, we've got the Tenth Development Plan, and we're giving it another four years. The Istanbul Financial Centre... and the international index is back in Istanbul's commercial centers ranking, and all other assessments show that the dynamics of being this financial centre are not enough. So both the Istanbul city administration, the Metropolitan Municipality and the central EC PARTI rule did not perform enough to make Istanbul the financial centre, which shows it. Dear friends, for 12 years the AK PARTY has ruled the country in the central government; from 1994 the Metropolitan Municipality has the same political staff. It's the financial size he's spent so far, managed -- I'm telling you, as far as the budget is concerned -- $120 billion. There are no transfers from the central budget, no funds from the municipalities and no assistance from the central budget to large projects; 120 billion dollars. This is the painting that a city government, which spends $120 billion, has now brought to us in Istanbul. And the international Istanbul financial center, you have to meet a lot of conditions to apply for international projects, but there's a basic key concept of security. 1) Your country will be safe, 2) The city you requested the international organization will be safe. The Tokyo Olympics are the most obvious of all. The Tokyo Olympics are the closest in Istanbul's history to receiving the Olympics. They gave the 2020 Olympics because it was safe and only safe to Tokyo, which split the money for our $19.2 billion in nuclear spills. In the coming period, the concept of security is important as well as as as as the whole of our country. What security? Publicity, safety, law enforcement and stability are important. If you attempt to sink a bank by the hands of the state, you will have no rank, no account, no word in any international organization, and they will sentence you to life imprisonment. It's a sure thing. Like this, a savings that will destroy the security of law in the country will leave you in the classroom in global competition. So, as the National Movement Party, we say, "O Government, keep our country safe, keep our borders safe, keep the legal safety and stability of our borders, and do nothing else; don't touch anything until the country goes to the elections." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do what you need to do to get the government's wheel to spin routinely, and don't interfere in anything else. Whoever's coming in July 2015, let them do the new vision of this country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0107par0048	Thank you. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Uğur MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0108par0052	Mr. President, Congressman, I am truly sorry to be talking to such an empty hall. We all make these laws together; we need to follow their benefits and problems together, listen to them together, and if there are mistakes that can be corrected, we need to discuss them together. In fact, that should be the goal of negotiations in Congress, the General Assembly, but unfortunately, we don't see any of our friends here. I'm very sorry to not get enough attention here to tell you about our work.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0109par0053	Dilek Haným, we're all here, interested friends are here.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0108par0054	Yes, I have made a promise here to convey to you the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the Constitutional Charter of İstanbul 640 rows. The Istanbul Reconstruction Centre we're talking about organises the institutional structure of the inquiry centre. The New York Convention on the recognition and execution of Foreign Referee Decisions has been ratified and has become an internal law in our country in 1991. In 2001, the first legal arrangements were made with the International Law on Reconstruction. Then again, in this period, we removed the Law on Negotiation in Law No. 6325, which we did during the 24th term. Our internal legal arrangement for the investigation also includes regulations in Law Code 6100. The main goal of these provisions is to present problems in the national judiciary, concerns about neutrality and long periods of trial. The alternative solutions, such as intermediary and arbitration, are allegedly adjudicated by the rules set by the parties, allowing the conflicts to be resolved with effective and less expense, so that social peace can be maintained faster and protected better. In particular, however, it is possible to express that the main reason for international investigation is to ensure the legal assurance that global companies want to invest in their investments. In a sense, global companies create their own judicial procedures and impose their demands on the countries seeking finance. Small countries, however, are developing countries, and countries whose economies are not developed enough, are unfortunately unable to resist. However, what needs to be done is to establish a national judiciary that results in an independent, reliable and reasonable period of time. As a matter of fact, in Germany, the prosecution is not required because there is an independent, neutral and fast-working judicial process there. The bill states that the International Centre for Finance Strategy and Action Plan, published in the Official Gazette of 2009, has been drafted to strengthen the legal infrastructure as stated by the International Financial Centre Strategy and Action Plan. Again, the reason is that conflicts are intended to be resolved not in front of courts, but in the way the parties prefer, by the way of arbitration or alternative discrepancy, and for this reason, the establishment of an independent and autonomous Istanbul-based institutional authority centre that can compete internationally. As a result, international companies are urging their national judiciary to be valid throughout the world, in other words, because they are concerned that countries may harm their own commercial interests, their own judiciary and procedures are valid, and alternative conflict solutions are valid. And that's how we have to discuss and break these laws because we can't take a stand for them. The new world order, the special judicial system imposed under the name globalization, can, unfortunately, be passed by centuries of filtering, whose rules have been objectively established, that the rules of the strong, economically strong, will be enforced, while the weak, will have to be subjugated, as a process of law safety and justice cannot be fully established. Our proposals and criticisms in order to be partially resolved were unfortunately ignored by the AKP Group, and the bill was passed through the commission despite its serious mistakes and shortcomings. We're not the only ones who criticize the bill. Unfortunately, we see critical approaches from ministries, high judicial bodies, bars, banks, universities, municipalities, major cities prosecutors, justice commissions and trade chambers, which have been asked about the view of the bill during the commission's work. Even with the ministers being critical about this, I can't find anything to say to our friends at the AKP Group, who specialize in covering their ears about hearing those criticisms in no way. For example, the National Ministry of Defence states: "There are no draftings in matters such as the application of the arbitration court against the decisions to be made, the rejection of the judges, the selection of judges, and the regulation of the rules of the framework, which are not appropriate for the basis and the rules of the investigation in this scope, the Ministry of Defense states. "The legal value of decisions, the execution of decisions, and the overall regulation of the mechanisms in relation to other legal ways is expected to be carried out as a result of conflict resolution mechanisms within the central body," the State Department says. So, as we have criticised in the law, there are gaps, which should be regulated by law, the State Department says, but again, our friends in the AKP Group didn't hear it, unfortunately, they didn't see it. In fact, we don't state the opinion that the rules of procedure in the resolution of disputes to the centre should be regulated in the law, such as applying to the judicial path for decisions made, and that the Constitutional Court can cancel if it is regulated by regulations, the Ministry of Energy and Resources says. The Capital Market Board -- a legal arrangement that is more concerned with this capital -- is saying the same thing again about this, says: there are gaps in matters such as the decision-making process, the quality of the decision, the binding of the decision, the laws to apply against the decision. Since the centre is intended to act internationally, these ambiguities about the resolution of conflict prevent the centre from being seen as a structure of what is remembered," he said. Finally, the Union of Bars of Turkey says that some of the developing countries also consider this establishment a made-up committee serving developed industrial countries and doubt the system's neutrality. In this case, it would be more logical for developing countries to act by calculating its contribution or damage to the national jurisdiction of leaving the institution out. They express their views and there are dozens more views; universities have opinions, courts have opinions again. Many of these views indicate our shortcomings, but unfortunately there has been no effort to complete them. As my friends have just said, then, in fact, when this law is being passed, it's being sent to say hello, it's being taken out, but it's not really considered practical. It's almost non-existent, for reasons I'll try to explain in a moment. I really don't understand the government's disregard for these criticisms, even by the ministries. We still don't understand that the financial circles didn't take note of their criticism in the same way. The bill states that the rules on investigation and alternative conflict solutions will be adopted by Istanbul's central bodies. Critics and questions on this subject are indicated that the laws of those applying to the arbitration centre can apply the law they want, that the arbitration decisions will be applied in Turkey, or that the orderful provisions will be valid when Turkish law is considered valid by the parties, but there is not a single rule in the law on this issue, only verbally stated. Sadly, however, no reference was made to the International Law on Human Rights, the New York Convention on Civil Laws, and the Law Law on Law Laws, which had become a law of internal law, in which there was no corroboration. So the gaps in the law are not allowed to be filled, not even through references. For example, this law is not applied in Article 1 of the International Law on Reconstructions: this law does not apply incompatible conflicts with the same rights on non-movable goods found in Turkey and in conflict with the will of the two parties. It has not even been included in the bill on disputes such as this. Again, it is not in the bill that the same law should be in writing, as stated in Article 4 of Article 7 of the article 7 of the arbitration, the election of the judges, the termination of the mission, and the cancellation of the terms of the arbitration decisions mentioned in Article 15 of Article 15 of the article 15 of the arbitration were not included in the draft. I mean, which of the inconsistencies with this bill, who can actually be chosen as referees, how the judges will be rejected; in addition to it, it has not been part of our legislation, despite all the international legislation where those who do not like the decisions of these judges, who claim that they have been wronged, how they can apply, and how they can follow a course. On the grounds of the bill, Istanbul expressed the purpose of establishing an independent and autonomous, internationally competitive institutional research centre. However, the establishment of the centre has not given up on recruitment from public institutions. If it's going to be independent and neutral, really, if we're saying that international organisations or international commercial companies can take over our headquarters here, then why are we shaping this like a public institution, and we don't understand that either. Then the purpose of the law and its way of doing so really contradict each other in a very serious way. For example, the election of representatives from institutions under direct or indirect control of the administration, such as the Ministry of Justice, the SEC, the Banking Organization, the Stock Exchange Istanbul, the Capital Market Board, will undermine the integrity and credibility of the centre. How can the centre be trusted in disputes between a public company and a private company? In that case, it would have to be hard to imagine that an inspection centre in a foreign country would be preferable. If the bill is adopted as such, there will be no establishment of an internationally competitive arbitration centre, and this centre with no function will exist only on paper. Article 6 of the bill states that the other components will be appointed members through the governing boards, while the baron's appointment will be made by all bar presidents with lawyers elected by the bar presidents of 81 districts. What we don't understand is that there are many lawyers here: you trust all other institutions, you trust the NGO, you trust the SEC, you trust the Capital Market Board, you trust the Chamber of Commerce, but you don't trust the board of the Turkish Bar Association. Only the presidents of 81 counties can choose those who can take part in this arbitration board. We haven't been able to tell our friends or our lawyer friends or the bar members, and I don't think you can either. Also, although we have made suggestions that the people who will be elected to the board of inquiry are experts in our investigations, unfortunately, our proposals have been rejected in the commission. In the same way, in order to increase both participation and credibility, they should not be chosen more than two periods to the governing body of this decision centre. Despite what we said, our proposals on this matter have not been accepted. Again, one of the reasons why the inquiry centre has been transformed into a structure dependent on power is that one of our reasons is that a judge who will be elected by the Justice Department from the 1st grade judges will also be on the general board. The 8th article requires that one of the 3 board members elected by the general council be a lawyer. This person should also be chairman of the board. It is clear from here that a judge from the Justice Department, a structure so dominated by power, will unfortunately be president of this board of directors, and will be in control of any establishment of this facility. In Article 6 of the article 6 of which we also criticised the lack of experience in the profession of those who would form the general body of the arbitration centre, although we also criticised the lack of experience in investigation and mediation. Article 7 of the bill states the duties of the general council. These tasks include ratification of the rules laid out by the board of directors on the basis of the application of the rules on the application of the rules for the application of the application of the framework and alternative solutions. These rules are the center's most important and crucial tasks. So, these rules, which have been criticised by all institutions, will be proposed by the board of directors and will be decided by the general board. Criticism from all institutions, however, is that the rules of conduct of these rules, the rules of inquiry, must be included in the law. But, unfortunately, our criticism has not been taken into account. In that case, we think the credibility and preferability of the center will be eliminated. Also, the representative of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey states that there are no instructions and no preferences by lawyers to resolve disputes with the arbitration committees within them. Now, if you don't prioritize the rules in such an inquiry center, if the rules can be changed at any moment at this level of inquiry, which lawyer can send our own client in business or other jobs? Of course it won't be trusted. Article 8 of the bill states that the governing body will consist of 3 people, and when the decision is made with 2 people, the decision must be unanimous. Now, can that happen? When there are two, it will be unanimous. Well, then the board won't be able to decide. That's why we're recommending that the number of boards be raised to five. If this is accepted, at least such technical mistakes can be corrected. Again, at such an important inquiry centre, it is said that a supervisor can be one, not more than three, but one. Now, you think you're going to set up a very effective arbitration center in the international community, and there's going to be a lot of output of that, of course, but let's have the unis check this out. And that's something that shouldn't happen. We've also brought our proposal on that subject, and I hope you'll agree. There is not a sentence on the duties and powers of the National Court of Investigation and the International Court of Investigation, which was created by Article 12 of the bill. And you're saying that you're going to set up an international institution like this, but there's not a single thing about the duties of that national and international court of inquiry that unfortunately isn't in the bill. In this case, it is also a serious problem that even legal members who will be elected to the council are not sought for expertise in the subject of arbitration and mediation. Moreover, the decision of the 5-member court, which is a natural member of the chairman and secretary general, will result in loss of rights. So you're building a court of inquiry under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, the chairman of the board, and you're making the people there a natural member, and then it's clear that you're objecting to the decision made by this court of inquiry." That's what you're saying. At least the general council should be contested. Whatever it is that's gonna be contested. I mean, since there's no assignment, I don't really understand what to object to, as a lawyer. You guys will be able to tell us soon enough if you understand. But the arrangement in this matter has not been changed by our request, I'm afraid. The concept of accepting a donation from the centre, which is part of the 15th article of the bill, is clouded by the neutrality of the centre. We feel that if the donors apply to this centre, if a decision is made about them, the centre will suffer a great deal of damage in the matter of independence, neutrality and credibility. Again, financial obligations are being brought to the institutions that specifically give members of the centre. No one will want to send members to this station if you bring such financial obligations to the organizations that are giving members to the center. This center will be dead before it's even born. As I have just said, sir, you have not made the rules regarding the Centre, nor have you made any changes in the law, nor have you made any changes in the law, you said: "It's the nature of this work." But this 16th article refers to the Law on Civil Law and Associations Law, but it does not refer to the Law on International Accounting, or to the Law on Law on Law, because they do not want to bind themselves. We don't really know that about the rules there, no matter what kind of fun arrangement it's going to be. I mean, it's not called regulations, it's against... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, we don't know how to shape those regulators. That's what I'm going to say right now. These criticisms of ours are, in fact, a criticism that should be considered. There are indeed many technical difficulties. I hope those setbacks will be corrected within the framework of our proposals, with respect and love for everyone.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0110par0090	Thank you. Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0111par0092	They've given up, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0110par0093	Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0112par0096	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of my own people on the Istanbul Research Centre Bill. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, before I express my views on the bill, I see that Parliament is now unable to legislature from the image of the legislature; I see that it is tired, tired, and tired of feeling tired. Aside from the fact that he's efficient at legislature, I see that he can't even do it normally, and I see that we're in no position to respond to the demands of the nation we belong to.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0113par0098	We're more than opposition.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0112par0099	Actually, I mentioned the legislature. I mean, I didn't discriminate against you, but if you insist, I'll tell you. So, since you, the Justice and Development Party, have defended every action of the government here, or accepted every bill or proposal from the executive body as your own directive, it is your duty to keep the majority in Parliament. It is your right to run this Parliament, as it is your duty to run the country. Now, when we look at the basic function of the legislature, it's to enforce the law on matters that are needed. That's what the legislature is for. Who needs the legislature? He has to make the laws that will meet the needs of the nation he represents. However, we have seen for a long time that the legislature has not passed the laws that the nation needs. Because I'm saying as a member of this legislature that people no longer care about their needs. Now, as we look at it, either the laws passed two months ago are being lifted three months ago, or the verdicts we lifted two or three months ago are being brought back. And while they're being done, they're always called the law reform, the great reform. But each package brought to solve the problems of the judiciary is declared a major reform to the public. We're surprised, too, that we can't figure out which package isn't reform and which package isn't reform. In fact, the reform years of a new ruling party are early years. He's already reformed in his early years. If he's starting to change what he did later in his early years, if he's turning his own laws into sabbaticals, turning them back and changing them again, it's not reform, it's undisciplined legislation. In fact, the legislature should object to this lack of discipline, and we can't object to that. Now, dear lawmakers, this bill we're discussing is also due to a need, true, but the Turkish nation does not need it. Now, when this is being brought in and other alternative solutions such as this are being introduced, the words say that the problems in the national judiciary, the concerns of neutrality or the lengthy process of resolution of those discrepancies are being set up, and in contrast with the incompatibles -- other methods that exist -- are more effective, more efficient -- and that social peace will be maintained. Now that we've said alternative solutions, these are the choices of one thing, the alternative of an institution, which is really what's available, the alternative of the current judicial system. Now, if there are problems in the current system, in the current method of solving conflicts, these problems need to be resolved. For example, if the trial process for solving conflicts is long, it needs to be shortened. Again, if you are concerned about neutrality and independence, these concerns need to be resolved, objections to that need to be met. The organ he has to do is Parliament, but the way he makes the law is now forgotten. So my daughter just finished law school, got into a legal debate with me, said, "Dad, what do you understand about the state of law?" In Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it states that the state form of the Republic of Turkey is a republic, and it counts as the attributes of the republic, and it is written that it is a state of law. If the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, then what we're doing in Parliament is legislature activities that should be in the state of law. So either the political power itself or other routes, by making an offer through lawmakers of the majority party it belongs to, if those proposals come from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the same day to the Justice Commission or to the Commission on which it is concerned and are immediately on the agenda of the commissions, as if people were in a hurry to discuss it without a chance to discuss it, they are the proposals made by lawmakers of the ruling party, but they are the proposals from the opposition party, which are never available to discuss it. Now, I see the MPs from the ruling party are bidding. For example, in our Commission, both Ramadan (Ramadan) and Recep Bey often bid. I'm a congressman, they're a congressman. Our dear President of the Commission is making an agenda, immediately bringing up their proposal. What's he up to? I don't understand why he's taking them up on what they're offering, but why he's not bringing mine up.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0114par0107	He doesn't like yours.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0112par0108	If this bill were to be put on the agenda, we didn't get the proposal. If it said so, I would believe it. He's a congressman, and I'm a congressman. Don't be afraid of God. Now, what's the criteria for that? So, if the commission controls its own agenda, does it mean that the commission should act as it pleases? So, constantly, the fact that some lawmakers raise their proposals and evaluate them means they ignore some of them? Or is the Justice Commission, one of Turkey's most important occupational commissions of the Grand National Assembly, receiving instructions from the Prime Minister, receiving them from the government, receiving them from the concerned ministers? I mean, I want to know if the commissions are in accordance with the ministers' orders or the Prime Minister's orders. If the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic law state in a Western sense, and we are MPs to the parliament of the democratic state of law, I want to know the differences.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0114par0110	You can download by 37.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0112par0111	It's not because lawmakers from the ruling party are talking about where they're sitting. First of all, why do you break the law that you passed three months ago, and why do you bring it back to its decimal point? You have to think about it. I see, there, they said "reform" and the same friends said "reform" here, too. I'm ashamed to say it on this stand, my friends, but perhaps you approve of it by saying so, and I'm sorry. I pay my respects. And I don't like the way a fellow commissioner talks.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0115par0115	To contribute, I wanted to contribute.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0116par0116	Thank you. Now, the question-answer process will be done in 20 minutes. Ten minutes to ask questions...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0117par0118	Mr. President, on behalf of the individual, one man has spoken.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0116par0119	No, sir. Mevlüt Akgun...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0117par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0116par0122	I asked, they said no.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0117par0123	No, I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0116par0124	But you didn't, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0117par0125	Sir, no, I'm telling you right now, I want a personal conversation.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0116par0126	Mr. Young, your request is in chapter one.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0117par0127	Sir, I want it now.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0118par0128	You've got to give it to him, Mayor, he's got legal rights.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0119par0129	But he'll demand it on time.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0130	Now, Mr. Young, you may ask, we don't object, but there will be a question-answer procedure. It's not right to ask after you've said it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0131	No, sir, you haven't. Look, now, two people have the right to speak on all of them.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0132	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0133	A friend didn't talk, I do.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0134	You don't have to repeat what's known, you don't have to repeat what's known.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0135	What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0136	Put your hand movement down.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0137	Hey, look at the hand movement.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0138	For once, learn how to call it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0139	If you're a proper president...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0140	No one needs to learn from you or learn from you here, and they don't need to.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0141	Mr. President, well, look, it's all over...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0142	Then if you know the Charter, if you claim to know it, you will intervene in time.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0143	I know. I don't want it on time, I want it now.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0120par0144	No, you didn't. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0121par0146	Mr. President, you can't ask questions.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0122par0147	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0123par0148	Mr. President, we demand...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0149	Wait a second.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0125par0150	I want a promise, dear. No, I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0151	You have a request, but it's part one, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0125par0152	Now, sir, no, I want it now.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0153	I asked him here, Mr. Akgun doesn't want a word, he's given up.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0126par0154	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0155	The Deputy Director of the Group told me to come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0126par0156	Mr. President, of course, we don't know what our friend is going to do with the procedure, but Mr. Kamer Young...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0157	No, we were told ten minutes before the call was made, sir, so let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0126par0158	So if there's no speech, our friend said he wouldn't talk, so you have to allow our friend to talk.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0159	Mr. Sky, I have no objection to that. I asked ten minutes ago.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0127par0160	Who did you ask?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0161	They said Mr. Akgun will not speak, the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0127par0162	I want it now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0128par0163	But we don't know about that.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0164	You should know, Mr. Young is listening.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0128par0165	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0166	No, sir, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0129par0167	Mr. President, on the matter...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0168	Now, I'm not here to make promises to Mr. Young.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0129par0169	That's your intention.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0170	If the procedure is to be done, the young man must ask for it in time.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0129par0171	Now's the time.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0172	Ask for the transcripts, sir, the reports were filed ten minutes ago...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0130par0173	But we don't know about that, that our friend has given up his word.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0124par0174	No, you don't know, Mr. Sky, you're here, I'm asking questions, the AK PARTY is responding.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0130par0175	Now we know, but we're learning it now.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0131par0176	Mr. President, understand.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0132par0177	No, why should we understand, dear?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0130par0178	Have an understanding, so there's no painting about it. We have a friend who has waived his speech, and Mr. Young wants to talk. I'd like you to consider our friend's word on this, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0133par0179	Yes, at the request of Mr. Sky. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0181	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, I don't understand how these AKP-led deputy presidents can be so reactive to me. I agree, but don't be afraid of my speeches, I'm always saying the right things here, look, I'm explaining the situation in the country. Now, you've brought in a law that says it's an inquiry center. I mean, what's an inspection center? What's his mission? How will it work? How do people who work here get paid? Is that a thing? There's a clause that says, "Sir, the inquiry and the alternative..." Now, friends, you bring such meaningless laws. Now, you've established a financial center in Istanbul, and you're trying to fill it in. Do you know how you built this financial center? You brought $1 billion from the Foundations Bank, Halkbank, Agriculture Bank and the Central Bank, and you gave it to TOİKÝ, and you bought a land there, and you built a TOKI and built a building on it, and you're building a financial center there, and so you're trying to fill it with these institutions. Now, friends, the judge among you... doesn't know how to enforce this law tomorrow. Now, the only task of the inquiry is this. ▪ The duties of the facility are as follows: A) To set rules on the rules of examination and alternative discrepancy solutions and to ensure that services are conducted. B) Promotion and publication on the methods of analysis and alternative discrepancy solutions... Now, friends, you have to state here how the inquiry center is going to study what conflicts, what discrepancies they're going to examine. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0135par0190	The General Assembly will determine them.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0191	What will the General Assembly decide, brother? Look, since you don't know... Now, friends, which discrepancies will go to this inquiry? Which one? The state of the Republic of Turkey has courts, administrative justice will go to administrative court, judicial justice will go to trial, but what discrepancies will go to this inquiry, no, it's here. So he's not here.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0135par0193	Read article 1.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0194	For him, for you don't know, and for talking too imaginaryly... Now, friends, I mean, you have brought such a system to Turkey that is now sitting here in the government, Bekir Bozdağ, how did this come to sit here, my friends?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0136par0196	People picked it out! How did you get here?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0197	Now, look at the Attorney General of İzmir, did you or did you not call him at eleven or twelve o'clock at night? D.A., go get that D.A. off the case. Did you say that? You did. After that, did the attorney general file a report on that date, send a statement to the House? He came to the trial. Where's that argument now? Friends, a person who lives in the Justice Department telephones the Attorney General at night. Sir, go get that D.A. off duty and then close this investigation, destroy the documents...... would that be possible, my friend?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0137par0199	You're lying, I didn't say any of those things, you're lying. You're lying to people in front of them.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0138par0200	Mr. President, can he insult you like that?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0201	If I lied, I'll show you which one of us is lying. How dare you come and sit there? You're the one who screwed up the house of justice, you didn't leave anything out of it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0139par0202	Mr. Young, please speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0203	Now, my friends, they're making a statement, and the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors says if they don't pick the men we want, we'll nullify that election. Yeah, that's not gonna happen, guys. Now, Recep Erdogan has brought his lawyer's brother to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. I just got into two cases with this guy. Friends, the judge says, without looking at us, that the case is rejected, that he decides against us. Now, would that be a system?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0140par0204	What a liar you are!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0205	How can I expect justice from this judgment, from this justice, my friends? What kind of a thing is that? Justices and Prosecutors are appointing a member of the AKP's district office to be members of the Supreme Council. What kind of a thing is that, guys? That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0141par0206	I mean, is it that dirty or what?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0207	You've ruined Turkey so badly, you've destroyed it by its judgment. Now there's no way to trust the judgment anymore. Bekir Bozdağ, who was already in the Ministry of Justice at first, is interfering with justice at any moment. They brought him to Istanbul, and appointed one man to the police station. İstanbul Chief Prosecutor's office says he's writing this down: "Bring Bilal the son of Git Tayyip. I'll take his statement."
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0141par0208	Mr. President, will you step in? He's insulting the President.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0209	The police commissioner says: "Sir, I can't bring him." What if, well, if you're the Attorney General, an attorney general is giving a direct order to a police officer, go get this criminal or this defendant, bring this suspect. If he says, and then the police don't listen to you, what does your presence mean? What kind of a thing is that, guys? That's not gonna happen. Turkey's in every way... All of them: December 17th and December 25th, they were caught taking bribes, phones in the middle. Recep Erdogan goes out every day, and he says: "They listened to me, my family, and my children.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0142par0211	Normal?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0212	Now, look, let this information on tape be obtained illegally in countries where the sense of responsibility in politics, in which morality is based. Okay, he may not be interested in this information about criminal responsibility, but if what they're saying is true, if it's true, if he's being bribed, political responsibility, moral...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0143par0213	How many apartments do you have?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0214	...and the person with a sense of responsibility to a society in society can no longer sit in that position, friends, for that position, for that matter.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0143par0215	How many apartments and shops do you have?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0216	But, now, what are you doing with Turkey? You're making Turkey an unsavory, disreputable country in every way in the international community. Now, we're reviewing the accounts at the CIT Commission, folks. Today we're reviewing Machine Chemistry's accounts. He's a member of the Board of Machine Chemicals. I said, Governor, what are you doing here? Oh, my God, guys, is that ever gonna happen? What's the Governor doing on the Board of Directors of a technical institution like Machine Chemistry? Yeah, that's not gonna happen, guys. They don't even carry the responsibility the government needs to be shown under a farm.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0144par0219	What are you doing in the D.A.'s office? What are you doing in the D.A.'s office? You're not a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0220	Now, we looked into the Public Bank's accounts yesterday. Look, now, the People's Bank... you know, they used to lend $750 million to the Foundation Bank, they bought ATV and Sabah. Then, you know, Recep Tayyip Erdogan called Mr. Bülli one day, and he said, "Bulali Yıldırıma," "Ya Bali," "Look, there's more oily, honeyy tenders than us," and this is Genghis Construction, Kolin Construction, I don't know, Limaks, they're making so many big profits, go get $100 million out of them." He said, "There are people on the phones, there are people giving money."
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0144par0221	Were you with him?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0222	Bilal's gone, he's raised $650 million from these guys, he's raised $650 million. Now, the People's Bank and the Foundations gave them $750 million in loans, which bought Morning and ATV. I'm asking the People's Bank: Well, brother, isn't that why they took this loan? Now, this was sold in ATV and Morning. So, as the People's Bank, why don't you collect this money? It says: "Sir, we've lent $750 million, but... "The loan is in 2007, 2014, how many years?" More or less nine years have passed, and during that time... He says, "Sir, we've collected $100 million from both of them. What about the rest? What about $650 million? Dear friends, you see, all the institutions of the state have been destroyed. Now, this is the runaway palace at the Ataturk Forest Farm. I'm asking about this palace. Look, my friends, this palace has not been tendered according to the Public Contraction Act. This palace, especially Recep Erdogan, called a relative, gave it to him as a contractor. Cost plus profit has worked according to the account, and the cost has been shown to be a thousand, I claim.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0145par0225	You always claim, prove it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0226	Here, the Minister of Finance says it cost $1 billion 370 million. No, it cost $2.5 billion. Now, look, the hall of this House was once given this way, and here, I know very well at the time -- in exchange for this internal design that was ripped out for $500,000 -- was billed for $110,000. Yeah, well, I know these things because in the tenders made by those close to political power... now, I think Mr. Recep has won the cost of his four-year stay there from this building's tender thing. So there, believe me, at least 200 percent of the cost has been shown too much money and has profited over it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0146par0227	Shame on you! You've soiled the council's bench!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0228	The contractor that Erdogan gave the tender in that building made $1.5 billion, friends.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0146par0230	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0231	Come on, let's go check the accounts. If you're brave, let's bring it in and examine it. People's money will come from your nose.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0146par0232	How many apartments do you have? How many apartments do you have? How the hell did you get those apartments?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0134par0233	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0147par0235	Thank you. There will be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0148par0238	Mr. President, thank you. My little question to the Minister is, now, it's called the Istanbul Inquisition. It's usually because of business activities, dissension, demand when conflict arises. They're taking it to Istanbul, but Turkey has a lot of potential, trade, industry. Like Adana, Ankara, Izmir, Çorum. Is he planning to build this Istanbul-based outpost in other cities? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0149par0241	Thank you. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0150par0243	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, there's also a topic here, and can you give us the number of judges and prosecutors in the judicial and administrative judiciary -- because the bureaucrat friends are here -- the net number? It's in the press, 10,000, 12,000, 14 grand? How many judges, prosecutors, judicial, administrative? If you could just give us a message from here... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0151par0246	Thank you. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0152par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as it is known, there is also a reason for the Istanbul financial centre to be established as well as in Istanbul. I wonder where the work is on the establishment of the Istanbul financial center. If this financial center isn't set up, will the inquiry center be able to provide the expected benefit by itself? My second question is: where are the studies and the necessary arrangements for controlled freedom? Can you make a statement about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0153par0252	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0154par0254	Thank you. I want to know this from Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0153par0256	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0154par0257	I'm saying your name, so instead of saying Bekir, should I say "takir"? That's not going to happen. That's the name of Bekir.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0155par0258	You can't. You can't say it, brother. You can say it or you can say it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0153par0259	What should we call you?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0154par0260	You refer to me as Camera Young, and I call you Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0156par0261	Should we say camera?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0157par0262	Let's call you camera.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0158par0263	You are not called the camera Young One, Mr. Young One.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0159par0264	Okay, that's what I want, I want people's names...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0158par0265	Ask your question, please.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0159par0266	Now, shall I ask my question or not?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0160par0267	Don't make me ask, Mr. President, he's insulting me.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0159par0268	Now, you called this Izmir Chief Prosecutor at night, you said: "Go get this prosecutor out of office, destroy those documents and shut it down." The Attorney General has filed a report, and you have returned a statement to the Ministry of Justice on this matter; you have sent it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; you have returned it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Where's this trial now? We know this argument, and you know it. A person who's been having such a hard time with you in the Ministry of Justice...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0161par0270	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0162par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what will be the phenomenon of accepting a donation from this centre of inquiry, which is part of the 15th article of the bill? I mean, he's going to be covered by the PM's office, and he's going to be entitled to a grant here. I mean, how would these donations make it safe to make donations, such as forced donations to TURGEV? One more question: I want to know how much money has been donated to TURGEV. We never got any answers to our questions, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0163par0277	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0164par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the first year budget is covered by the Prime Minister's budget in order for the operation of the centre to be carried out in the last joke of the bill's interim article, (4). However, the information notes passed to us by the Ministry also have a criticism from the Chief Justice of the Court: it is not right to transfer its public source to an institution that is entirely subject to the rules of private law; it is not possible in the face of the provisions of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018. Now, even though this is such a criticism by the Court's President, why is this clause still protected? Do you intend to accept our motion to remove this clause from the text in the future? This is a very important problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0165par0283	Thank you. Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0166par0285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, especially recently, we've been reading reports in the media that educational-drug policy will be implemented. What do you mean by this training policy? Who, for what, are you going to train, what are you going to decorate, and where are you going to send these militants that you've trained and equipped? Isn't it a crime for our criminal law and international criminal law to gather militants from other countries and train them and equip them? Can you explain that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0167par0289	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0168par0291	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this 17th and 25th December, according to you, the coup is considered to be the corruption of the century, according to us and the majority of citizens. Now, it's been ruled untraceable. I'm wondering, as Minister of Justice, if the judges and prosecutors who made this non-obsession decision were specifically assigned to this case, or did they come through normal appointment to make this non-obstruction decision? Secondly, we just had a discussion here. Now, AKP spokesman who call the PKK a terrorist organisation say a lot of things about those who meet with them. In the past five or six years, negotiations have been made with the terrorist organisation, even though it has no place in the Turkish Penal Code. Do you intend to conduct any legal investigation into the people who did this today? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0169par0296	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0170par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, why was the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Law necessary, and what needs were needed? Two, there are hospitals in this foreign health care sector, there are pharmaceuticals, there are patents; can they be in this area? Three, I don't see any regulation here regarding the rejection of members in terms of neutrality and independence. It's made for the Civil Law, the Law of Associations. There is no reference here to the Law of Law. Aren't those flaws? Of course, how will the real goal be to protect and protect the weak, because the capital, which can come in terms of legal security, is not the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0171par0304	Thank you. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0172par0306	Mr. Secretary, why did this inquiry center become Istanbul, not Ankara, and why not Mersin? Now, the port of Mersin is the largest port to the Middle East. Why, for example, Mersin, is Istanbul not the centre of inquiry? I don't get it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0171par0308	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0173par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask the Minister: The palace of justice is being built in Bursa, but it is being built in Butim, and it has been taken to Yıldırım. I want to know what's going on. Is it on the 2015 program? How much money is earmarked? I want to know about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0174par0313	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0175par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what about the duties of the National Court of Investigation and the International Court of Investigation, which I specifically stated in my speech? I mean, there's not even the slightest adjustment here. We'd appreciate it if you could enlighten both us and our citizens. There's not a single definition of duty here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0176par0318	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in. Questions are complete.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0321	Mr. President, my dear lawmakers have asked a different question as to why the arbitration centre is in Istanbul and why it is not set up elsewhere; Mr. Halaman has asked, and Ali Riza wants Mr. de Mersin, which is how it seems, our other friends have asked. Of course, Istanbul is a financial centre, it's also an economic centre, it's a trading centre, it's one of the main centers of the world. Therefore, it is natural to establish this in Istanbul. If we didn't set up in Istanbul and built in any other beautiful provinces of our own Turkey, would it be incomplete, but would it be built elsewhere besides Istanbul? Of course, they can be evaluated. But when we look at examples around the world, we see that the research centers are in places that are usually associated with the economy, where they're stronger, denser contacts. That's the kind of step we took in this frame. I mean, it's normal to be in Istanbul. Of course, time and needs will determine that, but I don't think there's any need to replicate it because it might cause other problems. It's also very important to have a residency centre, to have a trust center, and to have people's trusts built here in a strong way. In other countries around the world, we see examples of this, as we have now established in Turkey. But if there is a need in the future, of course, the matter of transference can be assessed. It's not like that because it's new at this point. Of course, the second question was asked about the budget of the inquiry center. We're not going to meet the budget, we're going to put in a year, and he's going to finance himself, so there's revenues there. So there's no continuous budget here. So a friend of ours asked: "You, on the one hand, give us a budget and get donations from here. " Now, since there's a year of founding...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0178par0324	There's criticism of the Court's presidency, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0325	...we're doing this for a year. But when this inquiry center is established, at the first stage, the TOBB will run the secretariat. In our meeting with them, he may not have any income soon, since this is new. This cripple can be born. So let's stretch it out a little bit. With a motion, maybe we should take it up to two years so it'll be healthy, without a financial problem. After that, when it starts to work, it's going to finance itself anyway. People here don't have a mandatory application, they have a voluntary application. And the decisions of this center are valid with the consent of the parties, and all of these are also decisions that are open to judicial control. It's not like there's going to be a conclusion here if the parties can take the trial or if they don't agree. On the other hand, of course, our friends asked questions about the investigation's field. In fact, when you look at the first article of the law, it is clearly the purpose and scope of the law. Here, what is it? ▪ It is called to ensure that conflicts can be resolved by the means of arbitration or alternative discrepancy solutions, including those carrying the elements of foreignism. This is, in a sense, an application within the scope of the investigation, covering the issues that are within the framework of the alternative solution. Private law...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0179par0327	What discrepancies?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0328	The discrepancies, the incompatibility of the administration with private law, the exceptions to the terms of concessions and contracts, of course, will be subject here. Those related to public order are already in the joint without discussion that the issues that do not have free savings on the parties are not in charge of the investigation. Everyone here agrees with that.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0180par0329	There's no limit.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0330	In fact, this law regulates some sort of agency law by the Istanbul Research Centre. What are the organs in this arbitration center, and who are they made of? What resources do they come from, what does they finance? Their work, their procedure, and so on... at this point, it regulates the ground rules and predicts a structure in this framework. The provisions of the HMK's investigation and the provisions of the Inter-National Law No. 4686 will still be implemented in this scope, which will be discussed in this framework. Otherwise, I've set this secular rule, I've done it my way, I've done it my way, I've done it my way. It's definitely not something that says, I'd like to express that in particular. This is extremely important.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0180par0331	The ministries are bringing this criticism, Mr. Secretary, your fellow ministers.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0332	Mr. Dibek, our number of judges and prosecutors is now 12,500; the number of administrative judges and prosecutors is 1,700. That includes the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the members of the Court. That's our number. That's what I'm saying here. I've evaluated Mr. Scholar Light's question under previous questions, part one. We don't have a new job at the moment in matters of controlled freedom. However, we have the Ministry's work to make this supervised freedom more useful and use it in line with the purpose. Currently, around 270,000 people in Turkey are subject to an execution under probation. So this establishment has performed a big function today from the day it was founded, and it will then perform this function. We're constantly following this to improve, to improve the practice, to improve the failures, to discuss the issue, and in the new era, we're all working together on how to make it more efficient and more appropriate. There's nothing wrong with us at this point, which requires legal regulation. But if that happens, of course we'll bring it before the House. However, in public, it will be subject to supervised freedom... which is now a year away from the execution of his sentence. Now there are a lot of different demands in public about increasing it, there are pressures. Of course, I don't want to give you any hope of that, because in two years, we have a restraining order, for the kids up to three years. Now, the person who is currently serving 18 months in prison under probation is not doing time, so to speak, the execution of his sentence will be carried out for 12 months. He just goes in, stays in there for a while, a week, two weeks, goes out as he is. Of course, we need to see the public negativeness of this practice. Maybe there are different alternatives to making this system work better, but now we think about the consequences of it because a crime has been committed, tried, sentenced, sentenced to 18 months in prison, goes in, comes out a week later. If this crime is committed against you, it's your opinion that it's committed against someone else... it's important, too. So we're dealing with this in a very different way. Perhaps in the future, we can come to you with different alternatives, but I would like to express from here that we have no idea at the point of increase. Because I understand that there are a lot of people waiting for this, but I want to make it very clear that we're not working on this right now. Of course, we've got a congressman here who's always talking to us in a way that suits his level of speech.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0181par0336	I have a higher level than you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0337	Of course, I don't want to answer you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0181par0338	You're not a coward, you're a coward!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0339	I just said you're lying. I said you're lying. Look, once again, I'm telling you from here, you've said that before. Here, go away, relieve him of duty, destroy the documents. How many times have you said what I said? He's the son of a bitch and the son of a bitch who didn't prove it when I said it. Prove it!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0182par0341	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0342	Now, you're looking at the media, what you're reading here, and you're not honoring my statement. I know what I'm saying; I've always been in a position to uphold the law, to uphold the law, but you're polluting this bench, and you're polluting this House.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0182par0344	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0345	You have no right!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0182par0346	It's not true what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0347	I don't answer lies, slanders, but you're all dirty.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0183par0348	What slander, what lies?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0349	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0183par0350	You phoned.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0184par0351	Mr. President, I'm waiting to answer my question; the clock is ticking.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0352	Mr. Yilmaz said about the budget; it's possible when we put it in the law. So we're making an arrangement in the law right now, and we can make an exception to that law. That's his private legal personality. We're putting it on temporary basis to satisfy a need, this necessity.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0185par0353	That's the opinion of the Court of Justice.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0354	We're doing something from the law. That's what we rule against in order to overcome that obstacle. The Lord's Court of Justice... yes, the Lord's Court will have a closed space of 400,000 square meters. Application projects are currently under review; we will be tendered in January or February 2015. I wish our scholarship well from here. Right now, this study has reached the final stage. Of course, December 17th and 25th was a lot of talk... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me answer you this:
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0186par0359	One sentence...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0360	Everyone on December 17th and 25th is looking at their own power.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0187par0361	Why did you depose the judges, why did you relieve the prosecutors?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0362	I have no objection to anyone looking at their own power, anyone can. But imagine that people are trying, 60 years old, 70 years old, and somebody's making a bet, and the newspapers are making headlines. Then you have no way of knowing if that claim is true or not. If the judges of all Turkey come, if the allegations are false, slander is not enough to clean up that headline. It's our duty to all of us here to respect the right to remain unstained, to protect the purity of the universe. A prosecutor who started the investigation, another prosecutor who led the investigation, another prosecutor who made a non-obstruction decision, another prosecutor. We believe in the prosecutor who opened the investigation, and it's true. We call the prosecutor who made the final decision about the investigation, and it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0187par0364	Did that prosecutor make the right decision?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0177par0365	That's not an objective approach. In the end, they are both judicial decisions, and the judiciary has made a decision regarding them, and they are subject to objection.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0188par0366	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0189par0368	You didn't answer my question.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0190par0369	It's only the prosecutor's decision or it's the right thing to do, is it court?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0191par0370	He's going to court.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0192par0371	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0193par0372	I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0194par0373	Mr. Secretary, you haven't answered our question, and everyone's wondering if you could explain this training-dock policy...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0195par0374	You're a good learner, you'll learn.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0196par0375	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0197par0378	Mr. President, of course, the opposition has the right to say, and the power has the right to respond to these allegations, in Turkey's intense agenda and in the face of many disputes. However, governance of the state is another art, and those who govern the state must be submissive and serious in the face of anger, as in the famous lines of Sheikh Edebali.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0198par0379	He's insulting me.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0197par0380	Therefore, what Mr. Minister of Justice has just spent on a member of parliament, he is a no-good, bastard. I want to express that his words here are considered beyond his means and that the Minister should abandon that tone.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0199par0381	It's not a direct promise, it's a condition.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0197par0382	These are not appropriate; such talks should not take place in the Parliament. There's no question that everyone here has to pay attention to a certain style, to manners.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0200par0383	You're telling Kamer Young, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0197par0384	In this regard, there is no question, especially those who run the state, who are in a position to answer and account, are more attentive than anyone else. I consider it a duty to remind the Minister once again within the House.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0201par0385	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0202par0386	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying. He said, "You have defiled the assembly, you have defiled the stand."
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0201par0387	What do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0202par0388	He said: 'You have defiled the people.'
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0203par0389	What else is he gonna say?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0204par0390	You're polluting the people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0205par0391	It doesn't make any difference if you yell from there, so I'll tell you that. This is Mr. Young speaking.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0203par0392	What do you say? Didn't you hear what he said? Let the Minister look after himself who's been desecrating the place.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0205par0393	Your yelling doesn't change anything, Congressman. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0397	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm a politician of the years. I want to be on this stand, smiling, caring for everyone, at least if the ruling party is really doing good things, if it's running this country well, healthy, I want to talk to them about their good side. But, brother, I swear, I swear, I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I can't find one right thing. And you lie a lot. Look, now, what did Bekir Bozdağ say, folks? He said if I called a prosecutor, he's a bastard and a bastard who doesn't prove it.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0399	Did I say that?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0400	That's what you said.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0401	I didn't say that. You lie when you look me in the eye.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0402	I'm not lying.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0403	You lie to all these people in front of them, it's a shame!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0208par0404	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0405	It's said that in our Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0406	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0208par0407	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0408	...was brought in exactly as it was said.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0409	It's a shame, it's a shame!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0410	Bekir Bozdağ calls the Chief Public Prosecutor at 11 p.m. He says: "Go, remove that prosecutor. Did you call him or not?"
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0207par0411	Look, I didn't...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0412	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0209par0413	Mr. Secretary, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0414	After midnight, you call again, where the attorney general arranges the report and sends it to the Ministry. The brother-in-law of Bali Yıldırım was not caught immediately, and he was to be called at that time, and he was not called.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0210par0416	How do you know if you were there, if you were with him?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0206par0417	You stalled and stalled until you found your own prosecutor, and when you had a proper prosecutor on duty, he left five days later and then came back without arrest. Now, with all that's in the middle... you're sitting in a position called Minister of Justice, and the person in that position has to be honest, there's got to be a fear of God in it, but I'm calling, and there's nothing in you, brother!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0210par0420	Come on, move it, move it!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0211par0421	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0211par0423	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0424	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to thank you for...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0211par0425	Because of the bullying, I give you my word for two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0429	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs know my style, and so does our nation. For 12 years, I have served this holy nation with honor. And from now on, as long as my life lasts, I will continue to serve with honor. But no one swears, insults, slanders, lies about my style. He can't tell me anything like that.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0213par0430	You just did.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0431	Because it's obvious what I'm saying, it's very clear. I didn't call Izmir's Attorney General. I don't have an explanation anywhere. On the contrary, I told him I was making the call, and I said it here, and I said it before.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0213par0432	That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0433	But, what's he saying now? He says: "Go, remove that prosecutor, destroy those documents." I say: "I did not say such a thing...
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0214par0434	Then what did you say?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0435	If those who claim that I said this sentence don't prove it, the scoundrel is a bastard. I'm saying it anyway.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0215par0437	Why did you call? What did you say?
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0212par0438	How is that a lie? But, look, you're up here, lying again, looking people in the eye. For God's sake, for God's sake! From here, I say to Mr. Gök: Mr. President, please tell the blackened friend behind you what you have told me. I'd appreciate it if you'd tell him. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit05spe0216par0442	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 640. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, we begin negotiations with Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place. President-Command? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Commission for Information and Technology and Foreign Affairs Reports, as well as the Cognitive Law Bill for Appropriations on the Development of Trade, Investments and Co-operation between the Kingdom Government of Sweden. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Military Field Training, Technical and Scientific Business Union between the Swedish Kingdom Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with İstanbul MP Mehmet Domaç and 6 MPs; Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals; Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report (AKP) and Manisa MP Free Private and Giresun MP Selahtin Karaahmetoglu; Mersin MP Ali Öz; Muş MP Demir Çelik's Law Proposals and Health, Family and Social Affairs Report. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of rows 617. There's no word on the whole offer. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On the matter of the victims and the victims, there's blood, and there's blood, and there's blood, and there's blood, and there's blood, and there's blood, and The Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals No. 6197, dated 1-18/12/1953, has been added to the following article. "EK MADDE 1-In order to become an expert in any area of expertise and to declare that title, it is necessary to retain a certificate of expertise given and declared by the Ministry of Health by Turkish educational institutions or by one of the education institutions assigned by the Ministry of Health by the Ministry of Health. In hospitals where the number of beds is 100 to 300, an additional specialist is employed for every 200 beds over 300. Pharmaceutical expertise and training periods are listed on chart number 1. The training times mentioned in this chart can be increased by the Ministry of Health to one-third after the decision of the Pharmaceutical Council. Pharmaceuticals specializes in pharmaceuticals, with an expert's exam for pharmaceuticals as a center. According to the educational curriculum of the majors, and according to these curriculums, the framework of the basic applications of the fields of expertise and its duties and powers is determined by the Pharmaceuticals Experts Board. Taking decisions on the determination of educational institutions to give expertise education and expertise training powers, determining the core education curriculum and rotations of special training, determining the duties and powers of expert pharmacists, making decisions on the determination of educational institutions that will make professional and scientific evaluations in foreign countries, setting the basis for the detection of expert examination judges, giving opinions on expertise training and expert manpower, and providing experts to study and research to monitor professional and technical improvements, Health Ministry Undersecretary of Health Services, Director General of Health Services, 1. The Council of Law and the President of Turkey's Medicine and Medicine Agency and the Specialist Board of Pharmaceuticals, which the Ministry and the Higher Education Board will elect from educational institutions and from a member selected by the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals. The institutions also determine the number of original members they choose as well as the number of replacements they choose. The new areas of expertise set by the board are implemented by the approval of the Minister of Health. The original and reserve members, which will be elected by institutions outside the Ministry, are required to become experts and also serve as educators at educational institutions for at least three years. However, if the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals elects a member of the Presidential Court, it is not required to become an expert. Members' mandate is three years. The deadlines can be re-elected. The board meets at least twice a year at the Ministry's invitation. He is the deputy director of the board, who was elected as a member at the first meeting. The board also gathers extraordinaryly after at least five of the members' proposals. The board meets with two-thirds of the members. Decisions are unanimous. If the vote is equal, the president's opinion is accepted. However, decisions on the removal of educational powers of institutions must be made with at least two-thirds of those present at the meeting. Twice in a row, the membership of those who are not present at the board meetings without an alibi falls. In the application of the Law on Higher Education, dated 4/11/1981 and 2547, the special provisions related to medicine also apply to pharmaceutical expertise. Other matters related to the study of the council, expertise training and the adoption of expert documents are organised by regulations taken out by the Ministry of Health," he told SETimes. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following temporary clause is added to the Law 2-6197. "Club members of the Council of Experts in Pharmaceuticals are elected within two months of the release of this clause. The first part of the board is not required to be an expert in members elected by institutions outside the ministry and to serve as educators for at least three years at educational institutions. However, it is imperative that the chosen members become professors or professors in pharmaceuticals. In one of the areas designated as an expert in pharmaceutical medicine before the application of this clause, those who have studied doctorates and those who have started doctoral training in these areas will be granted a certificate of expertise in exchange for requests if they have successfully completed their studies. The obligation to employ an expert clinical pharmacist with the second joke of the Second Amendment of this Law begins on 1/1/2023." I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3-Ekli (1) included squads on the list, adding 13/12/1983 to the departments of the Court of Health, the Ministry of Health (I) of Medicine and Medical Medicine, the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution and the Turkish Public Health Institution. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4/4/1/1961, the term "pricysian medicine and dentists" in the second joke of the 5th Article of the Law on Returning Capital (Rehabition) will be given to the Institutes of Health Institutions for Health and Development (Rehabilitation) with Health Ministry No. 209. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ADDDE 5-27/6/1989 added to the provisions of Law Rule 375 (I) and added to the following (d) order of the "A-Seconds under State Officers' Law 657" section "3-Levels in Health Services and Helping Health Services Class" (c) to follow the (c) of the following (d) order. "d) Specialist Pharmaceuticals: 1-1-2 degrees per month, 185 degrees. 2) The area at 3-4 degrees per month is 175. 3) Monthly areas from other degrees 165" I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 6- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. MADDE 7-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Mehmet Domaç, İstanbul MP, has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Domach.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0217par0069	I thought we weren't supposed to have a speech.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0218par0070	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very, very much.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0217par0071	Shame on you! It's a shame! Shame on you, brother! Mr. Domach, shame on you!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0218par0072	I'll tell you, I'll tell you!
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0219par0073	I can't do this! That's not what we agreed on.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0217par0074	We weren't going to take any promises.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0218par0075	I give up, all right.
tbmm-2014-11-06sit06spe0220par0077	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the whole proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... have been accepted and the offer has been enforced. Good luck with that. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (November 11th 2014) to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commission, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
