tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be interviewing them in round two today. In the second round, the Radio and Television Oversight Board includes the Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information, the Undersecretary of Treasury, Banking Editor-in-Chief, Capital Market Board, the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management Board, the President of Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, the President of the Foreign Turks and Associations; Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute; Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Culture Centre, Ataturk Language Agency and Turkish History Agency budgets and final accounts. 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013 Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the second round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Zeynep Adı, MP Mr. Ihsan Şençik, Ankara MP Mr. Seyit Serçelik, Van MP Burhan Kayaturk, Samsun MP Mr. Ahmet Yeni, Yozgat MP Mr. Ertuğul Soysal, Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar, Samsun MP Mr. Tülay Bakır, Burdur MP Mr. Bayram Özçeklik, Erzurum MP Mr. Mr. Fazilet Mountainci Scream, İstanbul MP Mr. Tülay Kaynarca, Aydın MP Mr. Semiha Şiha MP Şühhane, Mr. Şeşhane MP Şehir, Mr. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Ghaziantep MP Edip Semih Yalçın, Manisa MP Sümer Oral, Kastamonı MP Emin Çınar, Tokat MP Mr. Reşat Yaşı, Kayseri MP Mr. Yusuf Halaçoğlu. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay, Ankara MP Mr. Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan, İstanbul MP Mr. Osman Oktay Ekshi, Adana MP Mr. Turgay Develi, İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayadı, İstanbul MP Mr. Özgür Special, Balıkesir MP Mr. Haluk Ahmet Şıkesir, İstanbul MP Mr. Faik Tunay, Bartın MP Mr. Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya, Kayseri MP Mehmet Şevki Kulkuloğlu, Antalya MP Mr. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldı, Bingley MP Mr. İdris Baluken, Şırnak MP Mr. Hasip Kaplan, İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel, Van MP Mr. Özdal Tüker, Van MP Mr. Nazmi Gür, Mardin MP Mr. Gülser Yıldırım, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. On behalf of the individuals, in favor of Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar - there is a government - İstanbul MP Mr. Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. First words, Mr. Zeynep Admirable... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0002par0061	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the RTÜK budget budget for the Financial Year of 2015. RTÜK, as it is known, has been working as a publishing control institution for 20 years and has made a lot of changes to the institution's law within the framework of social needs. In this framework, the Law No. 6112, which entered into force during our EC PARTI administration in 2011, and the publishing legislation of the European Union was completely altered, in line with the European Union's Visual-Informal Media Service Instruction. Thus, over the years, the technological transformation of the publishing sector has not been delayed due to the lack of legislation, the unstructed, unstructed ranking tender was completed during our government period in 2013, and efforts to achieve the goal of territorial broadcasting are being carried out rapidly in 2015. However, the need for transformation is still to be highlighted. There are different regimes in election law 298 or in election times, in terms of the control of radio and television broadcasts in the election period, which is in accordance with the principles set by the High Election Board, but when it is time to implement it, the YSK takes effect, and unlike RTÜK decisions, the Supreme Election Board decisions are not being carried out and are not finalised. Publishers can go to court to cancel RTÜK decisions outside of election times, while there are no rights to appeal in this sense, and in this framework, there are numerous suspension sentences during each election period. Trying to give direction to media outlets through the YSK during the election period is incompatible with the facts of the age we are in. In this context, there have been changes, of course, according to the needs of the day, in Election Law 298, which took place at a time when TRT TV was not yet a genius. But this law is a reflection of a period and also of a mindset that is far behind the age of communication. Therefore, the current situation does not have a modern view of both the control function of the RTÜK (RTÜK) and the freedom of expression and information in the media, and should be evaluated in this framework. However, research by the RTÜK is not limited to control, but by analyzing public media relations, it creates solution proposals and produces a value of social addition with scientific, social activities. Finally, Radio and Television Publishing 2014 Sector Report has been prepared, and our private sector publishing and television-making profile has been created. According to the sector report, commercial communication revenues that sustain our sector of radio television broadcasting are steadily increasing. However, when we look at the distribution between publishers in 2004, 587 million liras and 94 percent of advertising revenues are shared between 10 television channels; when we look at 2013, there has been a relatively improvement in this sense, and the share of 10 television channels has been reduced to 70 per cent, although revenues have increased to $3 billion to $168 million. But that's still a very high number, and the situation requires deep work, and the data that will be the basis for these studies is based on the meticulous work of the institution. RTÜK is an organization that contributes in multiple areas, and in 2015 120 million liras were transferred to the general budget from 142 million,347 thousand liras of current transfer funds. Again, the institution is responsible for the awareness of children and young people who are the guarantee of our future. The media-reading class, which is now an essential part of our educational system, was created by the initiatives of RTÜK (RTÜK) and is fully updated by RTÜK this year. In all its different aspects, the adoption of the RTÜK budget, which has an important mission for our country, will lead to new openings, I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0003par0071	Thank you, Mr. Goody. Mr. Ihsan Sener, MP of the Army. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0004par0075	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a commitment to express my views on the Radio and Television Oversight budget of 2015. At the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Since the '90s in our country, the transition to private television broadcasting and the diversity of television broadcasts have made our country's people stay on the screen longer. In research, the average average TV monitoring rate in Turkey is more than four hours. Again, studies have a habit of choosing the program that the 82% of children want and staying in front of the screen as much as they want. Such data demonstrates the need for the development of their consciousness in the media, starting with elementary school, for children who are vulnerable to visual, auditory and written media. Turkey stands out as a country where children of all ages watch television for as long as two to four hours a day. Disruptive effects arise in the learning of children who spend nine hundred hours of the year in school, although spending about a thousand or two hundred hours in front of a television screen. Education is the most effective way to deal with such problems. The education of media readers, which will raise the consciousness of the individual in a modern sense and improve the ability to evaluate, is available to use media content or to protect them. In particular, the major media-reading class in the last 30 years is part of the acquish of the European Union and is the head of the issues that have been noted in the context of the United Nations studies. Dear friends, as a result of the cooperation of the RTÜK and the Ministry of National Education, the study has been conducted as an elective course since 2006, and has been submitted to the auspices of teachers and students who have been fully upgraded in 2014, with an approach based on tools such as books, newspapers, television, the Internet, and so on. Instead of following books in courses through the media-reading teaching programme, which has been put into practice since this school year, the use of media-reading teaching materials, which have been prepared with cooperation by the RTÜK, the Ministry of National Education and the University, which allow students to practice quickly and quickly. Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, it is a matter of teaching students the concept of the renovated media-reading diet and the few decisions of the media, most damage. Under the practical events that make up the most vivid part of the media-reading educational material, students will be able to interview family elders and determine their own media use time by testing media diets. They will be able to learn and create protective symbols similar to the smart signs of the Radio and Television Oversight. They will be able to examine and question exemplary events that show that individuals and media can view an event differently. They're going to learn to make and publish a story using scripts and story stream schematics, and to use search engines on the Internet correctly. Dear friends, the new programme and teaching material will include activities that address children's access, analysis, evaluation and production skills, especially based on the producer position of a new media audience in the online and social media environment, with the properties of learning, information, persuasion. In the meantime, I'd like to make one more point. If the media-released bodies in Turkey successfully maintain their own internal controls and can gain a certain distance in this matter, if they are able to do their own self-control in the years to come, the necessity of the Radio and Television Council will be greatly removed in that sense. Congratulations on the successful work of the Radio and Television Oversight, greetings and compliments to my colleagues. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0005par0083	Thank you. Ankara MP Mr. Seyit Sertjelik. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0006par0087	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Editor-in-Chief of Media and Information budget for the Financial Year of 2015. I salute your high council. It is an important legislative activity in terms of budget talks, expectations and the discussion of proposals, where the institutions' annual performances are evaluated. The communication sector and media are an indispensable force, both technological regeneration and the influence of our social and social life. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information has a comprehensive co-operation with international media as it plays a role in the radicalisation of our democracy with its work for local, regional and national media. The way to be a respectable country today, where media has made great progress, is through accurate and effective promotional work that has continuity all over the world. The increase in international activities of the General Directorate should be assessed on this principle. International media monitoring, organised meetings, conferences, forums and so on helps our country take its rightful place in public. In parallel with the strategic role Turkey has played in its region and on a global scale in recent years, we see the activities of the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information, particularly the Turkish republics, are concentrated in the Balkans, the Middle East and the Arab region. These initiatives covering a large geography have reached the point of finding solutions to bilateral, regional and international problems at the point of mutual exchange of information for media organisations and journalists and to inform the country's public opinion. Working with media members from Turkish-speaking countries and Balkan and Arab countries will have a huge impact on economic, commercial, cultural and social relations and the tourism sector as well as the media co-operation at a regional level. European Media Meetings are organised to bring together media outlets broadcasting in Europe to strengthen communication among them, to establish their problems in place, to demonstrate the Turkish media potential in Europe. In addition to these multilateral relations, we see relations with the national level, especially local media. The development of Turkish media is favoured by activities aimed at strengthening local media, news and technical support. At this point, I believe the institution's more effective role is that foreign media members are on the same floor as local media, that ground preparation for co-operation is among the General Directorate's primary goals. Members of parliament, in order for these services to be conducted in good health, of course, the institutional organisation and the staff structure must also be able to respond. In recent years, we have witnessed significant work being carried out at the point of the development of the staff structure. In the country, we see an expansion of foreign organization, staff and technical support. The opening of new offices in Africa, South America, the Far East and Asia, close surveillance of the world's public, boosting political and economic influence, will contribute to the implementation of the global principle of great power. I think it will have decisive consequences at the point of strengthening local media, opening to the world, identifying existing problems and producing solutions. Of course, the success of these offices depends on the strengthening of a central organization. At this point, we believe that with the creation of new units, the establishment of careers, the establishment of staff support, the creation of a broad news network, the increasing number of languages followed in this metaphor, the recruitment of new staff in language and dialects that are difficult to provide, the General Directorate, which has a tradition of over 90 years, will take a much more active position in public life in the near future. With this reputation, I sincerely believe that in the continuation of successful activities, our media will be quickly restored to the modern world level, our country will be introduced more effectively in the outside world, thanking the General Manager for services provided, wish the Press-Relax and Information General Directorate budget to be good. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0007par0097	Thank you. Mr. Burhan Kayaturk, Van MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0008par0101	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the AK PARTY Group on the budget of Deputy Secretary of the Treasury for 2015. I salute your precious delegation. Dear lawmakers, the world economy has shown a bumpy outlook since the 2007 crisis. There hasn't been a complete recovery so far. Moreover, in the last year, international organisations have had to upgrade their growth projections for the global economy downwards. Turkey's nearby neighbours also have major depressions, ground-to-ground wars. There are social events and civil wars in both our south and north, and it's not very pleasant in our east and west. Thus, almost all of our neighboring countries have either the war embargo or the economic crisis. The economic situation in nearly all of the EU countries where we export a vital part of our exports cannot improve. In the past few years, while trying to minimize the impact of such negatives outside our country, there have been serious problems inside, such as the Supreme Court's attempts to shut down the party and intervene in politics, such as the Traveling Events, 17th and 25 December coup attemptes, just a few of them. We also encountered efforts to undermine and block the solution to the chronic Kurdish issue and the peace process. Here, unfortunately, are the events of October 6th, 7th, where all sorts of vandalism took place and we lost 50 people. Dear MPs, as you can see, from 2007 to 2014, there have been many negatives in the world and Turkey. These events, of course, have had a negative impact on the economy. However, it was a great chance for Turkey to have the trust in good hands during this crisis, and to have the AK PARTY in power. In our time, Turkey did not just fight problems, it also expanded its economy and fulfilled the need to become a great state. For example, when we built our tank, our ship, our helicopter, we stood on the side of the poor, the poor, the victim, and the oppressed. Our country has become a country that is no longer receiving help, but is strengthened by the EC PARTI government, from Africa to Asia, from Europe to America to many continents, giving aid. Being a great country is possible with a great economy and a powerful treasure. Without a powerful treasure, you will not be able to deal with the earthquake victim in Van. You will not be able to open your door to millions of Syrian immigrants, and you will not be able to bring help all over the world. Praise be to God, Turkey is taking decisive steps towards becoming a strong country. Our treasure is full of currency reserves. The currency reserve, which was $28 billion in 2002, has now grown to $134 billion, thankfully. When we come to power, our export, which is $36 billion, is climbing up to 160 billion dollars. Turkey is one of the countries with the least external debt compared to developing and developing countries. The percentage of superpowers' national revenues is 100 per cent and 120 per cent, while Turkey's external debt is 33 per cent of its national income is a crucial advantage. Our achievements in both national incomes per capita and interest, inflation and many economic areas are considered a miracle by the world's economic authorities. We're building the largest airport in Istanbul and the most important bridge in the world, and the largest textile city in the east and southeast, hopefully in Van. I salute all of you with such feelings and thoughts with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0009par0108	Mr. Ahmet Yeni, MP of Samsun. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0010par0111	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Banking Editing and Control Agency's budget for 2015. I salute you all. I've been talking about the budget for thirteen years. This will probably be my last talk on the budget. I am grateful to my Justice and Development Party and to the citizens of Samsun who gave me this opportunity. Congressmans, in every budget speech, I took these books to the stand. I'm starting to say to these people that God will never allow them to write books in this sinking bank type again. Congressmans, the key to maintaining sustainable growth and having a strong economy is having a sound financial structure. But before 2002, the financial sector lost its stable structure. When the EC PARTY came into office, the public banks were evacuated, the nation's resources, the nation's trusts, were squandered, as it were called, the damage of the mission. We paid $525 billion in damage to the government and the nation today because of the banks that were handed over to the fund, along with our nation during the AK PARTY. Members of parliament, the People's Bank was a bank planned to close in 2001 because it was damaged. In 2001 the IMF edition closed 353 branches of Halkbank, and in 2002 the bank was a heavy burden to the state, with 11 billion dollars in damage to duty. Today, 15 billion liras are being transferred to the treasury. The amount of loans the Halkbank provided to the shop in 2002 was 153 million liras. That number has now risen to $7.5 billion. Ten years ago, there were 38,000 tradesmen using public bank loans, 290,000 today. Congressmans, the cost of the Farm Bank's duties in 2002 was $19 billion. In ten years, the Agriculture Bank, which cost $19 billion, has transferred $20 billion to the public. In 2002, the Agriculture Bank lends $227 million to 28,000 farmers, and today it transfers 20 billion to our farmer. In 2002, the Agriculture Bank lends a loan to the farmer at 59 per cent interest rate, allowing our farmer to use a loan between zero, 4 per cent and 8 per cent, according to today's genre. Members of parliament have taken very radical steps to ensure a solid structure of the banking sector, stabilisation of the interest and exchange rate, and boosting direct foreign capital investments. Thanks to economic reforms, our financial sector is known to be exemplary all over the world. The banking sector has been liberated from a structure that finances public deficits, which finances real sectors. Today we have a strong capital structure, a healthy banking sector. The sector's capital efficiency rate is 16 per cent, which is twice as mandatory as the international Basel criteria. The active size of the sector today increased by 10.6 per cent during the ten months of 2014 to 1.9 trillion liras. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers; the costs of the BDDK (BDK) are essentially funded by the amount of expenditures taken over the balance sheet sums from the previous year under their control, and there is no allocation of funds from the general budget. The BDK budget size was estimated at $282m for 2015. The 270m euros, which account for 96 per cent of the estimated amount, are largely obtained from interest revenues, while the remaining 12m euros from their participation share remains. Mr. President, I've given you the numbers one by one, you've seen where we've come from in 12 years. So, how did this happen? The answer is obvious: the reforms that Turkey is taking step by step, the right ability of the EC PARTY. The EC PARTY has provided political and economic stability. Because AK PARTY means political and economic stability, the AK PARTY means democracy, the AK PARTY means civilization; the AK PARTY means skipping the age in health, education and transport; the AK PARTY means building iron nets all over the country, making the AK PARTY airway the public's way, the AK PARTY means profiting banks. As I put an end to my words, I wish you all the best of the 2015 budget for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0011par0122	Thank you. Mr. Ertugrul Soysal of Yozgat, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0012par0125	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge to discuss the Capital Market Board budget, which was established in 1982, as the first of our regulatory and auditory institutions, which have an important place in determining our economic and fiscal policies, co-ordinating and implementing. I hereby salute you all with respect, love, conversation. My fellow lawmakers, without a doubt, the most fundamental factor in the development of their markets is a stable and powerful economy. On the other hand, a healthy financial sector is also an insurance policy for strong economics and stability. Active and healthy financial markets create an important mechanism for funding developing economies. It is also very important that these markets function in good health, whether domestic or foreign, to be effectively distributed in the economy. In today's globalizing structure, financial markets have to strengthen their competitiveness worldwide in order to quickly adapt to world standards and maintain their presence. In this scope, the SPK has been successful in its work in order to ensure the development of the Turkish capital market and integration with international markets and boost the competitiveness of our markets. My esteemed lawmakers have also made it necessary to redesign the legal infrastructure of change, transformation and structural reforms, companies and capital markets in many areas of our economy since 2002. As a result of all these developments, regulations such as the new Turkish Trade Law, the Law on Debts; Financial Renting, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act, incentives for the individual pension system have been implemented over the past few years. The new Capital Market Law, which has been prepared fully in line with international regulations, has been enforced by the end of 2012, as a result of the EU pairing project, completed at the end of 2007. In the following period, the sub-regulations needed by the Capital Market Board have been implemented. In light of new legislation, capital market tools and exports, the important operations of public partnerships, the joint round-up of joint voting, call-outs, mergers and divisions, financial tables, the public enlightenment, collective investment companies, capital market crimes and the main challenge of them has been prepared in our capital market for structural changes and the legal infrastructure of transformation. 2013 has been a year since the development of legal infrastructure, as well as the renovation of institutional infrastructure. The Stock Exchange, the Gold Stock Exchange and the Istanbul Stock Exchange have been merged under the roof of the Stock Exchange, Istanbul. To facilitate access to global capital and restore the market's technological infrastructure, the NASDAQ OMX group has begun strategic cooperation. Following the completion of technological investments, in the near future, the market's public supply is also on the agenda. In 2013, an arrangement on pension investment funds has enabled the establishment of individual pension investment funds in our country, all of which are non-interested instruments. As a result of Turkey's interest in this area, the World Bank opened its first and only Global Islamic Financial Development Centre in Istanbul in 2013. And I want to brief you on the size of our capital markets: the market value of our stock markets was $34 billion in 2002, and at the end of November 2014, it reached 283 billion. For the same period, the rate of market capitalization has risen from 15 per cent to 35 per cent. As we look at the number of companies that were processed in Istanbul, the number of companies that were 301 in 2002 appears to have increased to 424, as of November 2014. At the end of 2002, the equity investment funds, which amounted to $9 billion, have already reached $34 billion. In 2003, pension funds with the size of 43 million TL portfolios reached 5 million participants and 34 billion portfolios with incentives and regulations. On this occasion, I wish you all the best in our fiscal year budget of 2015, our country, our nation, our state, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0013par0132	Thank you. Şırnak MP Mehmet Emin Dindar... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0014par0136	Dear President, precious MPs, I have made a commitment to the 2015 budget talks. This country has suffered a great deal of loss of life because of the disasters, a great deal of tears. The Marmara earthquake, where we suffered a great deal as a country, has become a nation in Turkey's view of disaster. As a rule, we've made strategic decisions to learn a great lesson from this pain that happened on August 17th so that no more suffering like this could happen. In the past, our citizens would kindly extend their hand to the rescue, but they would lead to other negatives. Different government units tried to manage the disaster with different applications, but that's not how it's going to work. Hence, we took a very serious step under disaster management and established AFAD, the President of Disaster and Emergency Management in 2009. The AFAD (AFAD) and Turkey now serve a more professional service, far from those images. Wherever there is a disaster now, everyone thinks of AFAD. Dear MPs, after the August 17th earthquake, we experienced earthquakes of Elazig, Van, Kütahya. AFAD was there in the first six hours of the Van earthquake, 950 search and rescue personnel, 2,500 tents, 7500 blankets, over 10,000 food boxes. In less than a year after the Kütahya earthquake, Van helped our people build more than 19,000 permanent dwellings. Between 1960 and 2010, over 50 years, 261,000 dwellings were built, while between 2010 and 2014, 41,000 dwellings were built. We've established disaster logistical centers in 22 counties in order to provide the quickest assistance to our citizens who could be affected by future disasters. We have welcomed the citizens of Yezidi, who have often had to flee from Iraq because of ISIS persecution from our neighbouring countries, as well as the people of Syria, who are more than 1,850,000 Kurds. While I thanked the people of Şırnak and Şanlıurfa, who were the first to host the border region, especially for showing the brotherhood between Ensar and the Muhajir, the AFAD was there and doing what needed to be done. Because of the crisis in Libya, he carried out an operation that could be modeled worldwide, while 6,000 other countries' people and more than 25,000 others were able to evacuate from Libya. Turkey is now a country that is a helping hand, not a helping hand. As part of Turkey's common power, the AFAD has worked in four continents, aiding in more than 40 degrees from Indonesia to Syria, from Iraq to Somalia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Palestine, from Myanmar to Afghanistan for reasons such as earthquakes, floods, famines, droughts, fires, internal unrest and so on. Between Duhok and Zaho, he set up a tent city of 25,000 for our people, who were victims of INDI persecution. Today, Turkey is the third most humanitarian nation since the United States and Britain with $1.6 billion. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that the AFAD has taught everyone in Turkey how to intervene. AFAD's success is well - known. The field created a bridge between the hand and the hand. He's got a family ready to go, a school ready to go, a disaster-ready business. Our goal, 2023, is to complete urban transformation for a habitable environment. It is a human duty to help those in need in disasters. The good man is the man who benefits the people. The charity, the religion, the language, the race, must be done regardless of the principle, because man is euphemism. I pray to God Almighty that our country and our people be protected from all kinds of disasters, and that the budget may be a blessing, and I pay my respects to all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0015par0146	Mr. Tülay Bakr, MP of Samsun... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0016par0149	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget for the 2015 Disaster and Emergency Management Chairmanship. I salute you all. In order to conduct authority and coordination from one centre in disaster and emergency situations, the President of the Ministry of Disaster and Emergency Management was appointed in 2009 through Law 5902. The AFAD is a reliable, flexible and dynamic institution that plans, manages, co-ordinates, co-ordinates, operates, works with all concerned institutions and boards of our country to prevent disasters, prevent disaster and emergency and damage, even though it is new to the institution. In order to increase society's ability to resist disasters, AFAD is preparing and implementing various projects. One of these projects is the Turkish Disaster Response Plan. Its aim is to define the roles and responsibilities of service groups and coordination units within relevant public institutions, NGOs and local governments, and to determine the basic principles of pre-fact, order and post-flash intervention planning. Of the 27 logistical centers planned to be carried out in order to carry out the post of disaster management, 22 have been completed. At these centers, 28 service groups have been assigned responsibility areas with knowledge of physical capacity and expertise that can interfere in various disasters and situations. According to different scenarios with the Integrated Disaster Management System, estimates of risk analysis and disaster damage are being calculated, thus preparing integrated infrastructure to ensure initial intervention. In various systems in his system, disaster response capacity has been increased using advanced information and technology. Turkey's Disaster Strategy Document is almost complete. AFAD operates the National Earthquake Strategy and Action Plan, GONAF Project, Turkey's Earthquake Data Centre and Turkey's Disaster Risk Management System. More than 1 million citizens have been trained by the Afyte-ready Turkey campaign to increase the power and awareness of society's ability to resist disasters. The AFAD is available to people who come to our country as refugees and to other countries for humanitarian aid as well as to protect and rescue our society against natural or human disasters. During the five-year period, humanitarian aid was given to more than 40 countries around the world. From AFAD, Syria and Iraq, 224 thousand people from our country are placed in 22 temporary shelters, allowing them to have nutrition, health and education. Aids to zero points have shown the world the power of our hand. Turkey, the most generous country in 2013, will host the World Humanitarian Aid Summit in 2016. Turkey is a new member of the U.N. Human Aid Co-ordinating Office Donor Support Group. The work of the AFAD (AFAD) who served above the standards of the United Nations at temporary housing centers has allowed international standards to be renewed and to become a model exporter. Taking the necessary precautions before disaster and emergencies occur, not raising awareness of society and managing the crisis, but maintaining the understanding of managing the risk. The goal of our government is to carry out disaster and emergency management at the highest level, both for our own people and for all people who need help. The budget totaling various pencils in the AFAD (AFAD) financial budget bill in 2015 was set for 993m 414 thousand Turkish liras. Congressmans, there are important projects run by AFAD (AFAD) in Samsun Province. These projects, which remain within these areas, have been reduced to non-designation bans on buildings, which have been digitized by the Council of Ministers' decision. In 17 counties, safe areas of disaster and immediate emergency have been identified. The landslide sensitivity map of the 19th of May district has been produced. On May 19, construction inventory of our towns of Ladik and Atakum has been completed and plans to intervene in possible disaster scenarios. In our Ladik district, the microtremör method examines local ground conditions and determines the location of new settlements. Following my earthquake symposium with our engineering faculty, Samsun was taken into the international earthquake registration system and started the second early-warning system in Turkey after İstanbul. The city of the Ladik container has been assigned to the AFAD. In our province, 67,634 people have been trained as part of Turkey. The AFAD demands that the 2015 budget be good, that Allah protect all living things of our country and our world from natural and human disasters, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0017par0158	Thank you. Mr. Tülay Kaynarca.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0018par0161	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget for foreign Turks and Associations Presidents in 2015. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the purpose of the presidency, which was founded only four years ago, is to develop both sociocultural and economic relations with family and relatives. It is also co-ordinating among relevant institutions for the success of scholarship international students coming to our country. Given that we have more than 6 million citizens living abroad around the world today, it is also evident that they have the necessity of this presidency and the importance of our government's citizens living abroad to address demands and problems. The presidency of the Turkish and related communities abroad depends directly on our Prime Ministership. With the work launched by the President in 2011, our citizens have voted in the countries where they lived in Turkey's elections, and for the first time, they have been able to vote in addition to customs doors in the presidential election. There are also arrangements for the Blue Card. Another important topic is the counselling and guidance services for families. As a result, our children, confiscated by youth agencies for various reasons in Europe, face serious assimilation. The ministries involved received legal and financial support and supported families of the victims. One of the most important topics in the work of the presidency is the work of our young people. The International Youth Leaders Programme is organised to learn the culture of young people who were born and raised abroad, to succeed. Cultural and social programmes related to these are supported by various projects. The Youth Bridges, which includes visits to Turkey, are one of the projects. In this context, with 29 projects, about 1,000 young people have been able to benefit from this project. The work of the Youth Agency, which provides guidance, counseling, and legal services to families whose children have been taken from them, is also covered. Law training programmes for the education of lawyers in Europe and Turkey are also one of them. Turkey is one of the foremost, most successful of its work for international students, the Turkish Scholarships, which is the goal of Turkey to become an educational base for international students. As a matter of fact, I'm going to give you the numbers now: the number of applications in the 9,000th year of 2012 reached about 82,000 by 2014, and 15,000 international students studying with Turkish scholarships today are being educated. In the Middle East, Central Asia, Europe takes advantage of 2.673 visiting student cultural exchange programmes from 27 different countries. Dear lawmakers, another working area of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Society is NGOs. There are about 5,000 NGOs around the world that our citizens have built, which is a very serious number. The development of capacity with trainings, such as administrative and financial support for NGOs, lobbying, social media use, is one of the key projects. Again, the presidency supports NGOs to participate more actively in their community, to maintain ties with our country, and to do successful work in every aspect of life. Again, workshops are organised with the participation of NGOs. The literature has also been supported by field research in order to determine and preserve our historical, cultural heritage. An important title for me is about the Ahiska Turks, which I am also a Ahiska Turk: there have been studies in order to improve the socioeconomic situation of Ahiska Turks living in different parts of the world. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, have a lot of topics to talk about, and not enough to fit in five minutes. In light of this information and opinion, I wish the 2015 budget to be good, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0019par0173	Thank you. Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0020par0177	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we must be aware that we are too great with our history, with our culture, with our civilization; we must think big, with great goals, take great steps. In recent years, our great step has also been called TİKA President. It's a monument to the bay everywhere, The wind blows in the place of those who have no work. With the service and art politics of our EC PARTY, we continue to open new pages in our political history. With the best results of art and service politics, a start was made to claim our historical heritage. Later, world heritage and human heritage continue to be claimed. TİKA, one of Turkey's world achievements, continues to attract attention as service production increases. It continues to expand its field of influence by creating new interests. Currently, in 38 countries, 40 programs continue with the coordination office. AC PARTY continues to be a world brand, which is consistent with our active and multidimensional foreign policy. He tries to serve humanity in a Pacific, a Central Asia, a Middle East, Africa, the Balkans, the Caucasus, Latin America. If we want to continue our lives by taking power from our history and from human history, ties with the past must be solidified, solidified. The process, which began only as a restoration of historical structures, continues to restore hearts. I have no friends in the world, I have no brothers, I have no friends? The victims and the oppressed find the hand of Turk, Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency right next to him. If Somalia refers to the state official TİKA (TİKA) as "the best thing that ever happened to the Somans" in Somalia, well, that's a good way to make sense. TİKA has the biggest share in the creation of the country's perception that runs to the rescue of people in need of help. TİKA is the address of new tasks every day. You're starting a Children's Cancer Center in Tajikistan, are you done? They're praying behind his back. You're turning on drinking water in Somalia, are you done? Prayer follows. You're opening a hospital in Sudan, are you done? Prayer follows. A child's wound in Palestine and Gaza, is it over? Prayer follows. That's living in prayer, making services with prayer. Our help and support should never be seen as a loss to our country. On the contrary, projects are being produced as a crucial achievement that shows our country's international reputation, its support for global peace, and its mobility. In this short life, being a litigator, being a foundation, it's not every man. Here we see our friends who work at TİKA move with that consciousness. Let the earth be ashamed if it doesn't run out! Shame on the spear that doesn't reach the target! If it stays with the master, this orphanry, Shame on the apprentice who won't keep him! O thousand, the only color that doesn't fade; If you can't flag, shame on the flag! Please, don't let anyone hesitate to look, don't be angry. We have become the most foreign aid-giving country in the world, compared to financial income. We are not saying anything that will give the national political advantage. We see how the help hand of the Anatolian people reaches out to the people of the least developed countries in the world and fulfills their international commitment. We need to meet with our civil staff, our civilization codes. In our vision of civilization, there's construction, there's construction, there's repair, there's hearts, there's construction of hearts, there's building hearts, there's running to the aid of the victim, there's hand-holding. So we see what TİKA is doing right now as examples of a vision of civilization. The heads of the TİKA (TİKA), War Barkçin, Hakan Fidan, Musa Earslıkaya, and our current President, Serdar Çayka, who served here as our Deputy Prime Minister, Besir Atalaya, Mustafa Said Yazıoğluna, Bekir Bozdağ, Emrullah Affairs, Minister Faruk Çelik, and now our Deputy Prime Minister Numanürmiş, know that he will also sign a great service to our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0021par0197	TICA has existed before.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0020par0198	...we offer our thanks, but we thank Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, who has made TİKA (TİKA) the foundation, the mission, the vision, the priority.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0022par0200	Who did TİKA give the tenders to? WHO has the tenders for the TİKA (TİKA)?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit01spe0023par0201	I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue our second round of talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0024par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of Prime Ministerate Turkish and the President of the Associations abroad, to salute our citizens and all the MPs present at the General Assembly. At the intersection of civilisations, our country is part of a strategically important geography of cultural and historical ties and interconnected societies and states. Therefore, it is vital that the solution of international problems and the country's interests be used in the necessary defence of the international platform by soft forces such as lobisticism and public diplomacy. Among the potential forces of our country are our citizens and relatives who have lived there for half a century with migrations that began in the 1960s. Today, we have citizens from abroad, who are approaching 6 million, and relatives from the northern part of Europe, over 200 million of whom we are connected with the collective history, culture, and language of history in the widest reaches of Central Asia. The international attraction of our country in recent years, the fundamental element of human and diplomacy, is important to our citizens and relatives who live abroad. In this scope, the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, which our country has been deeply in need of for many years, has become an important institution that closes this gap. The presidency has established a panel for every field of work to ensure efficiency and efficiency in its work, and aims to associate the media with its work. These boards are the Council of Foreign Citizens, the Council for Counselling, the Council for Cultural and Social Relations Co-ordination, the International Student Evaluation Board. In this framework, lawmakers, a few examples of the work of the presidency are the Youth Leaders' Programme abroad, the bridges of youth, the study of youth agencies, legal education programmes, soy brothers and relatives, and NGO studies for international students. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you know, the journeys of our citizens, beginning with hope and courage in the 1960s, have become permanent residence with new hopes. The right to vote was added to the 67th amendment of the Constitution for our citizens abroad in 1995, and was placed in the election law on 13 March 2008. The method of voting at the customs gates remained the only method, causing our citizens' political participation to be very low. Finally, in the general elections on June 12, 2011, the turnout rate was 5 per cent. In the 2014 presidential election, the first application of the new legal arrangement, foreign voters voted for the first time in their history and expressed their joy and excitement. In 54 countries, about 2.5 million citizens have been given the opportunity to vote in 103 centers. However, voter turnout remained in 19 per cent. It has been accepted as an element that has been expressed by all actors and observers, where the dating system poses a general problem. As a result of the work done in this context, the YSK has decided that the appointment system will be lifted, voting procedures will be held in diplomatic buildings, and the voting period will be extended by 24 days. I especially thank the YSK for this positive decision. Speaking of abroad, as you know, the ski season has begun in Erzurum. I invite our ready, abroad citizens to join Erzurum to do their Christmas holidays and skis. Of course, we expect our deputies here to join Erzurum. On this occasion, he sends our greetings to Turkish citizens all over the world, relatives and relatives, on behalf of all Parliament, asking that the 2015 budget be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0025par0018	Thank you. Mr. Semiha Semiha Öþüs. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0026par0022	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to the budget for 2015 of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute. I salute your high council. Precious MPs are a constitutional institution consisting of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute; the Ataturk Research Centre, the Turkish Language Institute, the Turkish Historical Institution and the Ataturk Cultural Centre. In 2011, the higher institution was transformed into an institution that could produce authentic information by creating the infrastructure necessary for it to have technological hardware and qualified human resources, which was reconfigured by the State of the Law on the Offices of Ataturk Culture, Language and History. Again, due to the provisions of Law No. 2876 which have been revoked by the Constitutional Court, the lack of legislation has been removed for 18 years, as well as the higher institution and its institutions, as well as its duties, authority and responsibilities have been functional. The high institution continues its work through the vision of Turkish language, history and culture, and the victorious commander-in-chief of the War of Istliklal, and of the Republic of Turkey's state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and its mission to make scientific research and to ensure that Turkish culture is again a civilization that can benefit all mankind. In accordance with Act 664, to support the higher institutions and institutions within it; to prepare environments for the production of social and humanities in Turkish language, history, culture, and all aspects; to do scientific research, to do research and development activities in the context of social and human sciences; to do and to implement seminars, symposium, conferences and other international events in these matters; to promote and to promote the work of our social and human sciences; to promote and to promote the development of scientific institutions in this framework; to promote and to promote the development of our national and cultural development; to promote and to promote the work of our culture in this field; to promote and to promote the development of our culture; to promote and to promote and to promote the development of our culture in this context. The institution's primary goal is to develop applications that are based on electronic systems in all its services, therefore facilitating and making information easier and safer in the field of social and human sciences. The Integrated Information Infrastructure and Integrated Information System Project, designed in this direction, took part in the 2011 Investment Programme, and began working with the hardware facility complete and complete. Through this project, citizens, researchers and other institutions are given high, sustainable and manageable services. As part of the Information Infrastructure and Integrated Information System Project, the Information Bank System, the Scholarship Management and Surveillance System, the Free Broadcast and Management System, the Project Management and Support System, the Academic Information System, the Active System, the Staff Information System, the Governing Board, the Agenda System, have been processed and presented to the services of users. The Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History will also implement the Management Information System, Publishing, Stock Tracking and E-Masza System in 2015 as part of the I.T. Infrastructure and Integrated Information System Project. As I try to put it simply, we are eager to live and live our culture, our language, and our history, knowing that our Ancestor has given us. I hereby congratulate you on your Friday and salute your grand delegation, wishing you well in the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0027par0033	Thank you. Mr. Fatih Han Ünal, MP of the Army.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0028par0036	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ataturk Research Center. I salute your high council. Many important figures have lived in the past of the nations. Gazi Mustafa Kemal is also one of the most important historical figures in our nation. A great history and civilization in his past led to the start of the struggle for independence of a nation that had never been accepted, and he made many achievements, and established the Republic of Turkey, which we live and live in, and entrusted it to our nation. The greatest ideal of the Gazi is to bring Turkey above the level of murky civilizations, as well as to protect and defend the national will, the nation, the nation's sovereignty under all conditions. Although the national will has been cut off from time to time by democratic process, our country has now traveled considerable distances in the direction of democratic goals pointed to by Gazi Mustafa Kemal. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, we are particularly careful to see the light of national education as far as the deepest part of the country, spreading. We are in position unless ignorance is destroyed. He emphasised on how important we as a country should be to national education. Besides, we have to take training first in order to compete with complex civilizations. We, as the AK PARTI government, have seen the most important engine power of our goal as high ideals, a strong state, a happy nation. Therefore, during the time of our governments, we have spent the most part of our budget on education. In 2002, the budget was earmarked for 10 billion shares, while in 2015, we split 80.9 billion shares with an increase of 709 per cent. In order for students to study better physical conditions, we raised the number of classrooms that were 3477,000 before us to 581,473. We've established 30,000 IT classes in all eight classrooms and above our schools. We sent 1 million computers to our schools, so we increased our students' access to information. We started handing out textbooks to our students for free. We've eliminated many obstacles to education. We were praised for our education in the world by the Conqueror Project. We've opened universities in all cities, and we've raised the number of universities 76 to 176. We've doubled the RD funding. In 2002-2013, we increased the number of patent applications by 11 floors and 17 times the number of native patent documents. By developing domestic technology, we have increased our country's competitiveness with every field. We've sent satellites into space. Our country is now able to develop its own weapon and strategic technology. Our two firms are among the world's 100 largest defense industries. We've done all this with our local resources and the staff this country has raised. In the world's economic competition, our country has also risen to the 26th and 16th ranking. The greatest ideal and goal of Gazi Mustafa Kemal was to bring our country to a level that would compete with peaceful civilizations, and that was our government's greatest goal. In cognitive understanding of the distances we've taken so far, we'll continue to work with the same determination and zeal for their 2023 targets. With this feeling and thought, I wish you all the best of the 2015 budget for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0029par0043	Thank you. Mr. Kemalettin Aydın. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, if you clap a little, you'll get a little applause.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0030par0049	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party, the AK PARTY Group, on the budget of the Ataturk Cultural Center. First of all, I'm going to talk about our Cultural Center, but in the meantime, whether we're going to go or not, that city is our city. I'm going to answer what Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri said about the Silver House. But since our priority is Ataturk, I think I'll be able to give you enough satisfaction for 30 seconds. In Article 134 of our Constitution, the decision of the President is based on the oversight and support of the President; the Ataturk Research Centre, the Turkish Institute of Language, the Turkish Institute of History and Ataturk Culture, the Society of Language and History. In this direction, Law 2876 was established in 1983. Scientificity, expertise, transparency, transparency, sharing, human rights, aesthetic sensitivity, current self-esteem and titled Ataturk Cultural Centre, is an institution that operates on all cultural topics, such as the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Institution, outside of its mandates, architecture, outside of language and history, music, literature, Turkish science and the history of thought, Turkish carpet, Chinese, hat and other thesis arts, Turkish cuisine and non-resistant cultural heritage. He published 440 works with various subtitles as of the end of 2014. The institution also sent over 6,000 printed materials to the Ministry of Culture libraries and international university libraries last year, and has agreed with many universities on publishing Turkish culture and literature and increased awareness. As of 2014, Kyrgyz Manas University co-operated at the University of Cyrgyz Manas, with the Symposium of Young Turkologists International, with the University of Tebriz State, Young Views to Kafkasya, Balkan University in Skopje, Turkish Culture in the Balkans and Ahilik in the University of Çukurova, Orhan Kemal in the 100th Year of Birth in Kosovo Pristina and the University of Voovo Pristina, along with the University of Tebriz State University, has done many of the works of Semposium of Semostetin Sciences, the First World War (in Karateten University), as well as well as well as the First World Literature of Turkey's reflections works, and the University of Sakar, the University of Turkey's Classics Sempozik, and the United States, the United States, and the United States of Kosovo Pristina University. The institution has published 30,000 copies of books, including the first edition of 10 (10) per year, 15/i reprinting, and also grants scholarships at master's and Ph.D. levels. Under budget opportunities, 5 scholarships are scheduled to be granted to two doctors in 2015, three of which is a master's degree. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the foundation of the Republic of Turkey. The AK PARTI authorities continue to work as best they can in order for culture and education to reach the highest level. In the meantime, recently, in the early years of Mustafa Kemal, a Silverhouse, which lives in the development process and can be integrated with the world, has been put to sleep in the next eighty years and has experienced new development in the last decade, unfortunately and unfortunately, the CHP and the DP have led the march that our fellow miners walked on the license of the miner. In his previous speech, Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri had the courage to say that the services to the Silver Hall were less than the services of that company, while the company received 18 tons of gold from the Silverhouse and invested its money in the Silver House for 1.8 quadrillion dollars -- a phone call that reminded you of what it did to the Silverhouse -- because you didn't come, and you didn't see it -- but the AK PARTI authorities need you for twelve years more to touch the state's Anatolian high school, the science high school, the hospital, the water, and the way, all of its entire investments -- in the last ten years, to remind you of what people who had invested in the Silver House -- the Silverhouse -- that you didn't see, but that you needed to be able to be able to touch the people in a few years to touch you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0031par0060	Thank you. I'm going to have to listen to you, and you're going to say something, and then I'm going to say, "Here you go." Okay?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0062	Talking about my name makes me...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0031par0063	Yeah, you want to talk about teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Kemalettin Aydın is an MP I love and care about, but I love the Silver House more than Kemalettin Aydın. The Silver House is a country I was born in, not a country I didn't go to, not a country I didn't see, maybe I'm a person who went where you didn't go, but I work in Ankara because I'm an Ankara MP, that's a different matter. Look, in 12 years, were you not going to do anything at the Silver House? I mean, weren't you ever gonna put a nail in it? Why are you rubbing it in the head of the Silver House, or the roads you've made, or the school you've opened 3-5?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0071	We did more than we did in the Republic.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0072	You weren't going to do that either? You shouldn't have done that either.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0073	We've done too much, too much. He's got the right, he's got the
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0074	Look, now, miners, 600 people, friends out of work there.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0075	I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0076	Currently, the unemployment of 600 people in a city of 33,000 people is a disaster, a great disaster. Trucks carrying these, carrying their mines, their restaurants where they eat, their gas stations, all of which have largely stopped, and therefore there is a great deal of misery. Where there's a cure for their problems, where he'll confirm a license that's been issued...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0077	No, no, you're misinformation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0078	...with the pressure of Tayip Erdogan, you took from him the bread of the Silver House in the name of the battle against the parallel.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0079	Wrong, wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0080	I say it's wrong, you're in the way of supporting it, I condemn you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0033par0082	I'll fill you in. Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0084	Because I had time and time ran out, I actually said it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0034par0085	You've got time, you've got time.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0032par0086	Now, the government's investments there are obvious, and its investments are based on the power of the company. He bought 18.2 tons of gold, and if he didn't invest in it, that's your shame, your shame. You gave him permission, you gave him the opportunity to work there, and you were going to create the conditions to invest there. And you're dating, and you're talking here, and I'm being spiteful again.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0034par0088	Now, Mr. Aydın, I'll promise you two minutes, but we've come so well.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0035par0089	I'll make a statement, and then I'd appreciate your word.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0034par0090	Sure, but let me finish. Now, I'd like to ask you, if you'd be so kind as to give me an explanation that won't spoil the weather. On the other hand, Mr. Yeniçeri has expressed his love for you. He's the only one who clapped on your way here, and I'll also pass that as a subtitle. I mean, I'd appreciate it if you'd explain in this frame. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0036par0094	Mr. President, as the speaker has just spoken, Mr. Yeniçeri has expressed in a sentence that the presidents of the People's Party of the Republic had walked, but we are not quite sure what this is about. We'd like him to explain. I mean, what is it, what has happened?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0034par0095	It's about that mine.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0036par0096	Yeah, I mean, we're asking for information, and he thinks we need an explanation by keeping our right to answer.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0034par0097	Okay. Yes, now, Mr. Aydın, please, but my request is in the frame, so if it goes like this, it goes like this. Come on in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0101	Don't worry. Since the deadline was limited, I made that promise in exchange for two more minutes, and I got him, too. Thank you. First, Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri loves the Silver House very much, and we love him very much. We love it even if it's raw, because it's better than raw, it's better than raw dough, it's more delicious. I don't see any harm in him either. This company, the Silver House, is now a very polymic element in our country, and political parties are trying to get a political runt from here. This company's license hasn't been revoked. The ore of this company's business license is completed by taking 17 tons of its business, and this company is completed by taking 18 tons, and we close the field because our profit optimization in that field has fallen. There is no cancellation of a license for this company. Just outside of its domain, my fellow nationalist movement party, all my friends from CHP or AK PARTY, have not allowed the state to continue mining in unregistered areas, as none of us would allow it to work in a land that is the land of the sons of this nation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0038par0104	Where's Migamem? Where's his license?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0105	Where the company is, what they're doing...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0038par0106	It's on the governor's desk right now.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0107	I'll let you know. That's how you refer to the governor. The governor has no authority over the government or the Ministry of Energy. What's in front of the governor is a license to detonate on an unlicensed area. How can he detonate in a field without a business license, whether he's given it or not? He doesn't have a business license.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0038par0108	Why won't he give it to me?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0109	I mean, why would he give it to me, why wouldn't he...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0038par0110	Why doesn't he give it to me, brother?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0111	Well, you don't get a license to blow up a place without a business license, Mr. Yeniçeri. Call first, ask your friends, tell them. I'll tell CHP too. My dear brothers, I'm a 14-year-old middle school boy who started at the mining gallery. I started my life as a miner. The miners' political owners are on their rights, not their company's licenses. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] CHP's mayor said in his speech against the miners in the fight for the license, we have your license; Kilicdaroğlu has said hello. I say I condemn this as the mayor of a social democratic party. It is not the owner of the mining company, it is the owner of the worker. We own the worker there, too.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0039par0115	He owns the silver house; he owns the poor, he owns the unemployed, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0037par0116	The silver house also has a clear forehead, and the sun is bright. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0040par0119	Yes, thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0041par0120	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0042par0121	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0040par0122	Here you go. Names passed. Take your time. I mean, even though I've asked you 50 times...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0043par0124	Izzet Cetin will speak.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0040par0125	It's okay. It's okay. Here you go, Mr. Cetin. All right, I'm gonna take another 15 minutes. So you can talk about these things outside of... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0044par0130	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Mr. Speaker, the president of the Republican People's Party has taken care of the workers and...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0045par0132	I said he had the owner of the mine license.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0044par0133	To the owner of the mining license... Friends, any legal transaction is owned by the Republican People's Party. On the way out, it especially contributes and supports the struggle to protect the rights and laws of those who work there. So we know what's done in the mines: we're a party in Kayseri, Eskişehir, in the previous job in Soma, Ermenek, Zonguldak, how to run the mines, how to collect them single-handedly, and how to distribute those licenses. Everyone knows it, and you know it. Now, it's not right for you to stand up in a town like the Silver House and make it look like a crime to own a license in a small town. So he did the procedure in accordance with the law. If he's working by handing over the rights and the law of the workers, we'll support him in any way we can, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0045par0135	As a fund-raiser, good, okay.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0044par0136	As long as he defends the rights of the workers, our support continues. No matter where it comes from, no matter how it comes from, we'll fight back.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0045par0137	It's okay, if you're on the side of capital, we get the answer.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0044par0138	So it's also a fact that your mining licenses, underground mines, coal companies, gold mines, all of your businesses are illegal and illegal licenses are made. It is also our duty to look after a registered employer. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING [[Continue]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 "I") "Turkish language" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0046par0187	Nevşehir MP Abu Bekir Secretider. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0047par0190	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2015 budget of the Turkish Language Foundation's presidency, and I hereby salute you all. Established on 12 July 1932, it is one of the most important cultural institutions in the Republic of Turkey and determined in the development of Turkish language in the last eighty years, it is a private-budget public institution, and its expenditures are in accordance with budget figures and pencils approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The institution was restructured on November 2, 2011, and its arms were formed by the Court of Science. The Institute, which published its first dictionary in 1933, published its first dictionary in 1945, today conducts studies of the historical period of Turkish language, scientific methods, and almost every science of the language of Turkish term. The dictionaries develop solutions by compiling grammar books and spelling manuals, considering the features of Turkish language in my writing, in the face of new situations in the speech. He publishes long-term publications, organises scientific meetings on various issues of Turkish language and supports the work conducted by other institutions and organisations. Of course, the Turkish Language Foundation is the first to come to mind an institution that makes a dictionary in Turkish, but the Turkish dictionary is the basic mission of this institution, but the institution has published 185 different dictionaries since it was founded. There are now twenty dictionaries in study and publication, including a wide area from the dictionaries of different languages to the dictionary of some professions. The company plans to carry out its 2015 work with a total budget of $14,400,000. If we're talking about the Turkish Language Foundation, I'd like to share my ideas about our Turkish language. Now, if there are half English, half English, half Turkish hybrid languages, such as office Turkish, I think that each one of us should seriously reflect on his opposition with his power and act beyond thought. If the grandson can't understand your grandfather's speech, if we can't read our signs, even the Turkish names are written according to the English writing character, we can understand that our greatest wealth in common, our Turkish, is dying. To this end, a new and comprehensive, radical sequence of regulations is needed, including the restructuring of the Turkish Language Foundation. In this context, we would like to address the recent Ottoman debates with our own authority. If there's a thousand-year-old rich cult and there's only one alphabet in front of it, I don't understand why anyone would be bothered by that. Can you think of sycamores without roots? Let this nation now wear two wings that are impatient to fly. Look, with one wing, we haven't been able to take off as much as we've ever wanted, we haven't been able to get to the level we want. We are one of the greatest civilizations on earth. Sitting down, our democracy and our republic are now talking about its goals in its 100th year, with the confidence of a self-conscious individual. The matter is far more important than reading gravestones. If our children can't understand the words used by Gazi Mustafa Kemal, while we're reading our anthem, it means our veins of life, our veins of civilization. If the language breathes words and the ancient words now replace them with words made up, hybrid and rootless, then the threat is now about our civilization. If we look at how many words a day we've spoken, we can clearly see that we're going back. For these reasons, I sincerely support this work, which has been initiated with the intention of bringing our ancient civilization to its core. Come on, let's figure out the pattern and shape of this together, and I think there'll be a lot of debate about it. With all these thoughts, I wish that the President of the Turkish Language Foundation and the total 2015 budget would be a blessing. If there are artifacts in the alphabet, I think we should learn them, too. I feel that any criticism on this issue would be a serious contribution to this work and to our entire civilization, and I respectfully salute the entire Assembly and the audience watching us on the screen.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0048par0197	Thank you. Mr. Osman Ören... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0049par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the Turkish Historical Foundation budget, and on behalf of my group and myself, I hereby offer you all my compliments. Members of parliament, the purpose of the Turkish Historical Foundation, founded on 28 April 1930, is to study Turkish history and civilization scientifically, at this point try to carry out its activities on a national and international level. It is part of the institution's original and universal scientific research on Turkey's history, the basis of historical research, the incentive for excellence in science and education, the development of history and culture in society, the active position on international platforms. The Turkish Historical Society, which should be essentially a very important cultural and scientific institution, has been largely governed by the ideological preferences of the rulings throughout the history of the republic. During the past period of power, the Turkish Historical Society's mission within the system brought the institution to sit on a passive profile. During the AK PARTI ruling period, which focused on the restructuring and more functionalisation of cultural institutions, producing policies in this direction, providing serious support for relevant institutions, the Turkish Historical Institution was also made healthier, and its budget was set up in 2006 for independence and more efficient work. The Turkish Historical Association also plays an important role in meeting the resource needs of our universities and other cultural institutions every year. The number of free publications available to universities and libraries has risen to 20,668, in 2014. In addition to providing research and project support, the institution contributes to educational processes by offering scholarships to people who continue their master's and PhD programme. The Turkish Historical Association also offers development opportunities for researchers. As of 2014, the number of materials offered in the institution's library for the use of researchers has risen to 230 thousand. As of 2014, the number of archive materials has risen to 106,369. The institution also continues its scientific activities on alleged Armenian genocide allegations. During 2014, two symposiums were conducted, and a 10-volume publication was prepared. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course the Turkish Historical Society is not at a perfect point today, there are more things to be done. However, during the EC PARTY rule, the Turkish Historical Society regained its prestige during the past administrations. The broadcast area has been expanded, qualified publications have been carried out. However, the coming point is not enough; it must be made an effort to improve. A new era has been entered in Turkey. In this new era, of course, there will be significant changes in the field of history education and the approach to history. It no longer imposes a date on a citizen of the state in Turkey. More importantly, the state does not establish its relationship to history in a traumatic way to create the basis for further arguments such as reconciliation, confrontation. It is imperative that anyone in Turkey who wants to be able to read Ahmet Cevdet Pasha's history will be considered a major event in itself. The Turkish Historical Society will also be in an important position in this framework in the coming period, completing the shortcomings with its efforts to help us understand the productive, qualified, and the past. Mr. President, dear friends, while our Turkish Historical Foundation is doing such important work to understand and understand our history and culture, some segments are trying to raise Ottoman debates on the curriculum work of our National Ministry of Education, to create a conflict environment, to deflect the agenda. The language we call "Ostian" is, in fact, Turkish, the common language used by all our citizens. There used to be religious debates in this country, and now language debates are wanted. A generation of Republican writers and poets can't even read their writing is growing up. We're losing our beautiful tongue. The decision of our Ministry of National Education has been made without further ado. We have to teach our youth our beautiful history. Dear lawmakers consider our society's historical and cultural differences to be rich, and, as in history, they feel that it is important to walk into the future together to reveal our deep ties, and with these feelings and thoughts, I pray that the budget be good and good luck, and I pay my respects to your delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0050par0210	Mr. President, as the speaker spoke, he said: "We all speak Ottoman." My language was not Ottoman, but my language was Kurdish.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0049par0211	It takes another generation to understand your language.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0050par0212	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0051par0213	Someone speaks Arabic. So what? That's rich!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0050par0214	How was it that all of Turkey's Turkish community were in Ottoman language? My language was in Kurdish, then I learned Turkish, but I'm a Turkish citizen.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0052par0215	You're making a new language, no one understands what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0053par0216	All right, it's on the record. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 17 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0054par0221	I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the draft of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, it is the duty of the High Council of Radio and Television to oversee radio and television organizations that do not meet the required obligations, violate the requirements of permission, violate broadcasting principles and other fundamentals mentioned in the law. The technical arrangement of the RTÜK (RTÜK) and its activities in this context are being successfully carried out, and we have nothing to say to them. However, RTÜK is not in charge of overseeing radio and television broadcasts that violate broadcast principles and literature principles. The majority of AKP members on the upper council are largely preventing RTÜK from serving objectively. RTÜK is only watching all the asymmetrics for power. In particular, the bias in TRT's publications has exceeded all limits and endurance. RTÜK has only avoided complaints about this. No one or anyone with a conscience can say today that any institution, especially the Radio and Television Association in Turkey, is neutral. (HPP) But there is no such problem for RTÜK. The RTÜK has been engaged in legitimizing, not controlling, the publications that have made TRT a propaganda tool for the AKP. I want to say this out loud: democracy is equalization of conditions. You can't get results from any activity that you've done in a place where the conditions are not equitable. In this regard, some institutions are engaged in anti-democracy activities, unfortunately, knowingly and unknowingly, within the framework of a bad party fanaticism. In fact, not just TRT, but the pool media is doing a full one-sided broadcast. But since TRT is an institution that operates on public taxes, I'd like to open up the TRT problem a little bit. With the amendment of Article 103 of the Constitution in 1993, private radio and television channels were released, TRT was assigned to serve as public service publisher, whose autonomy and neutrality were ruled by the Constitution. The joke of Radio Television Law No. 2954 is exactly this:... we are facing an institution that does not broadcast one-way, disagree with the public in order for the public to be healthy and free; and we are dealing with the interests of a political party, a group, a society, a interest, a belief, or a thinking organization that does exactly the opposite. The law has given TRT (TRT) the task of being the state and the people's television, while today TRT has become AKP TV. Although its duties are presented by law, the TRT operates, not by the public, but as the AKP's publishing body. The TRT is recklessly continuing its unilateral broadcasts, while the RTÜK is just watching what's going on. Supporting AKP broadcasts are seen on all channels and programs of the TRT (TRT). The TRT directs public opinion through non-opposition, blind, deaf, each other's heavy schedules. In particular, in the process of the presidential election, the public's public broadcasting has made citizens very uncomfortable. In the process, the TRT broadcast, not as a democratic, legal state of Turkey, but as a one-party and totalitarian country's television. RTÜK did not monitor these publications, only watched them. During the presidential election, TRT became the voice of Erdogan (the AKP) and the TRT commentator (the presidential office) and they acted as political cheerleaders. Despite the Constitution, TRT has been recklessly turned into a party television and defied the law. The TRT has made a huge contribution to creating an antidemocratic environment by abnormally disrupting the conditions for public creation in favour of the ruling party. The TRT, along with the Anadolu Agency, has created asymmetrical conditions for power in the election process, preventing the public from being properly conscious. The High Election Board has sentenced Recep Tayyip Erdogan to five-hour-and-a-half minutes in three days during the presidential election of the High Election Board to five-time stop the program for giving no part of the other candidates. However, because TRT failed to meet the requirements of the High Election Board's decision, the Supreme Election Board had to give TRT a second punishment. For the first time in his history, TRT has been suspended 16 times on the grounds that it has lost its neutrality. Its bias was also included in the OSCE and European progress report. It seems that TRT, a constitutional institution, is not listening to the Constitution or the RTÜK, or the YSK. The TRT is an organization that has been betrayed by law and has been destroyed by power. TRT is today the AKP's propaganda, manipulative and agitating machine. The power governs public perception through the TRT. TRT is run by partisan elements. Those who rule the TRT are not bound by law and Constitution. TRT is a mindset that sees its nation as AKP people and democracy as power. Therefore, the TRT serves the AKP (AKP) instead of the public. The TRT is now a slave device that serves the so-called master, not the Turkish nation. I regret to say that in terms of democracy, the TRT has now fallen further back and more primitive than the 12th of September. In particular, what the government calls the process of dissolution, in fact, is successful in preventing and manipulating PKK actions in the process of nationalization. We knew that Prime Minister Davutoglu had withdrawn very few armed elements, but we didn't declare it so that the solution process wouldn't be damaged. According to the owner of the horse, it's a quiche. That's what TRT would do if the Prime Minister said so. As for what is happening in southeast Turkey today, the TRT does not carry out its duty to provide, promote, and enlighten public opinion at its proper time. The TRT has been tasked with managing public perception in favor of separatist and destructive altars against the country's existence and integrity. It is important to remember that the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information and the TRT have been operating on the basis of Bulent Arinc for many years. In fact, I've actually come to this point in thinking of the presence of Bulent Arinc, but if he's not himself, I'm going to make a very short statement today about what he said yesterday. For many years, Arinc tried to make him look oppressed and sympathetic, saying that Ocalan was once a man in his prayers. Let me tell you directly: Arinc has been stripped and done by Ocalan (Ecalan). The same Arinc, who, after a while, warns the HDP to put Ocalan in a difficult position, says: "Whose spokesman are you, and who do you want to discredit Ocalan?" (Arinç, in his words, has shown that he is responsible for the reputation of Ocalan. Therefore, it is not to us to be offended by the publication of the baby killer Ocalan, such as Arinc's reign, that he maintains and maintains his reputation. Arinc gave a sincere farewell speech here yesterday. We didn't respond to the positive climate, but Arinc made a very critical assessment at one point in his speech. He said: "There is a Kurd. I said there is a Kurd." No, Mr. Arinc, you don't say there is a Kurd, there is no Turk. What happened in front of history proved today how right that question was. Dear MPs, the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information, have been established in accordance with the Prime Minister's law, in time and in order to ensure the right, identifying, enlightening flow of information to the relevant authorities and public, and to participate in illumination activities. I don't think I have a father-in-law here who's going to tell the public that press-reporting and information is on time, and it's true, it's revealing, it's enlightening. Given the current situation in Turkey, the Office of Press and Information has not been able to carry out its mandate in light of the public's right information, the organisation and strengthening of media relations. We can safely say that the Office of Press and Information has only fulfilled its mission to effectively reflect government activities for dozens of purposes and has bent the facts for this purpose. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information operates as a form of propaganda and manipulation by the AKP (AKP). As of this direction, the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information is the co-ordination of asymmetric propaganda that works in favour of power. If that is the purpose of the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information, it is clear that the General Directorate has betrayed its purpose and failed to carry out activities aimed at its purpose. Dear lawmakers, all developments show that the press and publication in Turkey are becoming more and more motivated. This is typical evidence that freedom of press and expression is threatened in Turkey. In the first half of 2014, it was announced by Turkey's Journalists' Union that 981 press workers were laid off and 56 press workers had to resign for various reasons. Ankara offices of many newspapers and televisions who prefer to be Masabaş newsmen have also been shut down. There has not been such a comprehensive massacre and liquidation operation against journalists in recent years. However, press and expression, freedom of thought is a constitutional obligation, and the Constitution is guaranteed. However, we know that the dismissal of many journalists was a result of pressure from the government itself. It is also clear who TRT and press information institutions will serve under such a mentality. Dear MPs, today's President, yesterday's Prime Minister Erdogan, is the biggest obstacle to freedom of press and expression. There is concrete evidence that this is the case. I'd like to share a few of these with you. Recep Erdogan interrupted and cut the MHP leader's words while he was in Morocco by saying, "Don't go to a TV station." That's not even a job in a democratic country. Again, Erdogan interfered with the research of polling companies, and was able to say, "Put two points in the BDP." In what democratic country of the world could a prime minister build a media-report community within the command-command and give such instructions to businessmen? Under the Prime Minister's direction, in what democratic country can television broadcasts be cut off? In which country can a prime minister tell journalists that you're a journalist? What country's prime minister can inspect the opposition leader's word through the lines of the Alo Fatih? You can't say, "What am I supposed to do, columnist, I can't control it?" I'm sorry, brother, there's no room for you in our shop. You should say, "There's no room for you." Can you say what you mean? In which country, we removed their collars as a prime minister for journalists. Now they've got international collars around their necks. A man in power in a democratic country can't talk like that or act like that? So, what are we going to define this regime or this kind of talk as, and what are we going to call it? Don't call us dictators. You call us dictators. Let's not say, but the Prime Minister needs to learn that he has no right to interfere with research companies, such as shutting down the main opposition leader's voice, interfering with television. If he doesn't do this, if he doesn't care about the Constitution, if he doesn't care about the democratic state of law, what reason could there be for other people to feel connected by it?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0055par0240	There's no reason.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0054par0241	Then it is said, sir, that the Constitution's Article 104 is read immediately: "Don't criticize the President or criticize the President." Is it neutral, President?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0055par0242	No.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0054par0243	If the President is not neutral, if the President is political...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0055par0244	He's doing it. He's right!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0054par0245	...the politician's response to this is indiscriminate to all sects.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0055par0246	He's a prude.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0056par0247	Right.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0054par0248	Now, what would you criticize or object to in this case? There are numerous benefits to putting aside an attitude to play both bald and fondue. Dear lawmakers, evaluations based on 2014 on media freedom in the world have explained that Turkey has fallen into the category of non-free countries from the category of free countries for the first time in the past 15 years. Turkey, which has worsened by six points on freedom of the press, has dropped 14 more places than it did last year. It fell to the 134th place worldwide. Turkey has also been declared the only country in Europe with 42 countries without freedom of the press. In the published Internet Freedom Report, Turkey shared first place with Russia in 2014 as a country that lost most points in internet freedom. The number of Internets blocked in Turkey rose from 11,000 to 40,000 as of April 2014. The Transparency International states that Turkey has become increasingly corrupt. Turkey is the most corrupt country in the 2nd place after China. During the broadcasts, it is likely that it is the duty to watch the RTÜK (RTÜK) and to support the Press and Information General Directorate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Under the circumstances, I'd like to extend my regards to the Turkish nation, all of you, if it brings any good.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0057par0253	Thank you. Mr. Sumer Oral, Alderman of Manisa. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 18 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0058par0258	Mr. President, I stand before you on behalf of the National Movement Party on the budget of 2015 of the Undersecretary of Treasury. At the beginning of my words, I pay my respects to you and your precious deputies. Mr. President, even though five years have passed since the financial major crisis, the seriousness of the risks that have fallen on the world's economy has been lost. It is not yet possible to say. Eastern countries are on their way to recovery, but everything still seems to depend on the secure pilot provided by the Central Bank of the United States, the Fed. Madame Christine Lagarde, president of the International Fund of Money, recently pointed out that the risk of recession in the eurozone is 40 per cent and the risk of deflation is 20 per cent. The situation of Europe is also evident. As a result, the present view of the global economy, despite all economic governance, warns: Do not leave without your umbrella in the current conjunctural. Mr. President, due to the final budget of the period, I'd like to share a brief assessment of the economic potential of the four years that are about to be completed, and the conjunctive we face as we enter 2015, with my dear fellow lawmakers. Before we consider how macroeconomic indicators tend to be, I would like to highlight the serious deviations between the targets envisioned in the Central Time Program, the Annual Programme and budgets. In important indicators, such as growth and inflation, deviations seem to reach 100 percent from time to time. We see the annual expectations predicted by the budget changed in the early months of the budget. Such changes in goals envisioned for a year would greatly undermine and even eliminate the credibility of three years, five years of expectations. A painting like this, of course, creates a trust problem with it. Trust is tremendously important in the economy. And it won't be easy to build it. Trust is achieved by action, quality and results. Mr. President, when we take a brief look at the view of our country's economy, we come across a picture in certain indicators: growth continues to be less than potential. Especially since 2011, it's been losing momentum. Let's put aside the level our country needs, it's showing a curve less than 5%. 2.1 per cent in 2012; 4% in 2013; 4% in 2014. As a matter of fact, the last growth estimate of the IMF (IMF) on Turkey was 3 percent. Inflation maintains unstable trend. He seems to have developed a tendency to rise again in 2013. He's been on double-digit levels twice since 2009. The year we're in, it's on the verge of double digits. Cari's open, and she's keeping a high profile. We're still at the top of the world's highest current countries, whether it's up and down. In 2014, unemployment has not yet been reduced to below the level of 2002. The low budget deficit is certainly positive, but that does not mean that the budget does not have serious problems in the middle and long term, which means that it does not have serious problems facing forward. As you can see, the country's economy maintains its fragile structure. In 2015, it will be based on the external resource we call hot money. It's obvious that the need for hot money has not been reduced to lower levels. In fact, the average rate of vision for 2015 also suggests that hot money is trusted. Mr. President, it's clear that in 2015 the wheels will return with a significant amount of external resources, and the 2015 foreign financing table will not be any lighter than the one in 2014, I believe. There will be about 200 to 210 billion dollars in progress. In the twelve years we left behind -- the average annual growth rate during the AKP administrations -- followed only 5 per cent. In addition, growth has improved erratically during this period, and there has been no employment growth. Clearly, there is no unique success story in growing up in 12 years. As a matter of fact, the GDP increased from 2003 to 2013 on fixed prices by around 68 per cent. And that's essentially the measurement of the actual size of the growth that is free of courtship movements and price increases. That's the physical magnitude that lies behind the nominal values. In fact, the size of an economy that grows by 5 per cent a year is only at these levels. There's no other mathematical explanation for this. Basically, all of these numbers and sizes that I've mentioned are very clear on the annual schedules. The fact that growth is over 300 percent is a picture of courtship and inflation, as I have just stated. What matters is that greatness is the basis of comparison. Mr. President, the government has repeatedly expressed its 2023 target. As it is known, Turkey's goal of entering ten countries with the largest economy in 2023 was in the Eighth Development Plan, covering long-term strategy and 2001-2005. The economic performance of the 12 years left behind, especially in recent periods, seems far from promising to reach these goals. The year 2023 was here for eight years. With this current trend, shouldn't the GDP of $2 trillion, the goal of being the world's 10th-largest country, the leaders of the economy come up here and explain to all of us? One thing I'd like to point out is that the U.S. Central Bank's announcement in May 2013 that it was going to be narrowed down in bonding policy, particularly in developing countries that needed foreign resources. But of course, it wasn't the end of the world. As a matter of fact, many countries have gone to some changes, considering the reduction in liquidity. Turkey, which has a serious need for foreign financing, has long been under new circumstances, and its coordinates have not been observed that it prepares a visible growth model. I don't know if there's a study like this today. However, the attitude of a Turkish person who is far behind in what he needs today has been worrying. Mr. President, economically, another serious problem in our country is that domestic savings are not enough. A fundamental power to ensure a stable and high growth dynamic, a constant and reliable resource, is no doubt the internal savings of a country. For twelve years, savings will be increased, every budget presented, measures are taken in this direction. Despite being said, domestic savings rates have been lower every year, rather than increasing. As a matter of fact, by the end of 2002, the savings rate was 19 per cent of the non-national population. In 2012, the comparison would be 12 per cent, and in 2013, around 12 per cent, and in 2014 between 13 and 14 per cent. It seems that in 12 years, we face a decline of 7 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient. This situation is more alarming in private savings rates. Domestic savings, however, are still at the 30-33 per cent level in the countries ahead. This underprivileged picture in domestic savings is naturally the main component of our country's need to apply for external savings. Today, Turkey's annual foreign financing has increased to an average level of 25 per cent of the non-national. It's a remarkable amount of greatness. This structure has increased our country's external dependency, therefore its vulnerability. As a matter of fact, Turkey was the country that lost its national money most after it announced that Federal Reserve was going to cut back on bond purchases in May 2013. Between May 2013 and late January 2014, Turkish lira lost 22 per cent in approximately seven months. Depending on these developments, the international financial community grouped Turkey, Brazil, Russia, Indonesia and South Africa as five fragile countries. Let's also record that we're in the front row of these countries. High inflation, low growth and high current deficits have been measured in this order. Mr. President, another important macroeconomic indicator in terms of financial stability is undoubtedly the balance of current transactions. As a country today, unfortunately, we're at the top of the world's highest business deficits. Looking at the last four years, it was open, 9.7 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient in 2011; 6.2 per cent in 2012; 7.9 per cent in 2013. For 2014, the expectation was 5.7 per cent. Furthermore, a remarkable improvement over the past three years has been that despite low growth rates, the current deficit has watched at a high level, this is a serious picture. In the twelve years that we left behind, between 2003 and 2014, our country was given an open account of a total of $441 billion. A source of this size went abroad due to the current. It wouldn't be the right assessment if our cari transaction deficit was completely linked to energy imports. It can't be ignored that energy has a share in our exports. The significant declines in oil prices in recent years will undoubtedly help to reduce our current current account deficit to some extent in 2014. We hope that this trend in oil prices will be permanent, as well as contributing to the process of narrowing down our chronic deficit. Although the development of oil prices has made some countries happy and some unhappy, there is no hesitation that the world economy will benefit from this development. Mr. President, inflation maintains its ups and downs trend, especially in 2013, it seems to be re-enhancing. He's been on double-digit levels twice since 2009, and in the year we're in, he's right on the verge of double digits. Price increases at 68.8 per cent in 1999 were reduced to 29.7 in 2002 and 18.4 per cent in 2003. The decline of inflation to 18.4 per cent in 2003 is a result of the previous trend in 2002. Six zeroes out of Turkish lira have been a continuation of this development. Basically, all preparations for six zeroes from the lira were made before 2003. The fact that the law was passed within a year also makes that clear. In 2003, inflation at 18.4 per cent could not be restored to a reasonable, single-digit, stable structure in the 11 years we left behind. Inflation has a high cost on the economy. There should have been permanent results in 12 years. In terms of structure, countries like us are usually better at this than we are. Mr. President, I'd like to briefly discuss Turkey's debt situation. When the country's debt structure is mentioned, the public's internal and external debt is often brought forward by the government's environment. Of course, the size of public debt is important, and there's no way to argue with that. But the economy is not just the public, it's the real business, it's the people, it's the citizens. The total debt structure of the country, covering the entire economy, should also be visible. The public's domestic debt was 149 billion in 2002. By the end of September 2014, that number increased to 408 billion liras. There is a 259 billion increase in 12 years. The economy's gross external debt reached $107 billion in 2002 and reached $397 billion in 2013. In 12 years, $290 billion is an additional debt. This debt is the economy's debt, and privatisations have played an important role in limiting public external debt. Our citizen's debt to the household, which our people are directly concerned with, has increased from 2002 to 2013, 11 times higher than 1.9 per cent to 21 per cent of the non-national population, and has increased 11 times more. Mr. President, today the largest deficit in the economy of Turkey is structurally open. Turkey has become a non-reforming country. These reforms were postponed as a result of a balanced, healthy economic infrastructure and moderate conjunctivation and liquidity in the global economy after 2003. As a matter of fact, two major international developments in our country over the last 15 years are: one is that Turkey has joined the term presidency as a founding member in September 1999, when it has just assumed its presidency. The second is the adoption of Turkey's membership in the European Union with its full membership strategy. Both events preceded the coming of the Justice and Development Party to power, even the establishment of the Justice and Development Party. This showed how powerful and prestigious the Turkish economy was. Mr. President, when I end my words here, I thank you and your precious deputies.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0059par0290	Thank you, Mr. Oral. Mr. Emin Çınar, MP of Kastamon. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is thirteen minutes, please.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0060par0294	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the budget for Prime Ministerial Afet and Emergency Management Chairmanship budget in the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and 2013 Central Management Act. I salute your high council and my fellow saints watching over us on television. The Prime Minister's Office, whose short name is AFAD, is Afet and the President of Emergency Management, is an institution founded by the closure of Law 5902, Civil Defence General Directorate, Prime Minister's Emergency Management, and the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs, which was issued in 2009. The area of the AFAD (AFAD), disaster and emergency services and the implementation of civil defences include measures needed to be taken to be carried out effectively at the country's level, and measures to reduce preparation and damage, and co-ordinatement between institutions and institutions that carry out the work of improvements during the incident, and the implementation of policies in these matters. According to this, the AFAD (AFAD)'s first duty is to conduct disaster and risk management, but not to conduct disaster and risk management, as if it were an institution or a subsidiary of the Red in an emergency situation. However, the AFAD should not only be an organization that provides tents or containers, delivers food, helps, but is truly a disaster and risk management organization. As in all areas, the AKP, who considers its interests instead of the interests of the state and the nation, sees and operates the AFAD as its own propaganda tool. The AFAD budget in 2015 earmarked $17,898 000 for the chairman of the Planning and Damage Reduction Agency -- a plan for disaster and emergency intervention, risk management and harm reduction at the country's level -- intended to prepare for the earthquake, intervention, earthquake risk management -- has been earmarked 8m,590,000 euros for the President of the Earthquake Agency. The most important tasks of these two units are disaster and risk management. In turn, however, the division of $541m 714 to the head of the Department of Recovery, which is the unit for post-factive work, is a clear indication that the government is running the AFAD as a charity rather than as a disaster and risk management. The AKP's sole goal is to save the day and to run all of the state's institutions solely in its own interests and interests. As a matter of fact, the AFAD did not provide the necessary support for our brothers and sisters in Turkmen, who lived in the Ülkü January of Turkey, but left the Ülkü Januarys, which had crossed the border with their own means, despite any danger. In this case, the government has once again revealed that its institutions work only for its own mentality. Dear lawmakers, earthquakes are coming at the very beginning of natural disasters. In terms of its effects, 61% of the disasters include earthquakes, 15 percent landslides, floods of 14 per cent, rock droppings, 4 per cent by fire, and one percent by avalanches. Our country has reached the point of a country of earthquakes and disasters because of science, engineering, and irrational practices, and Rant policies. Turkey is on an active earthquake belt. Fifty-five of our 81 counties are located in the first degree earthquake region. Most of our land, our industry, our dams are in the earthquake belt. Although there have often been major and severe earthquakes in our country, there are unfortunately no necessary measures for preventive measures. And all the work that's been done is to save the day. Instead of preventing natural disasters, the mentality of the AKP's rule is to help and continue the runt policies by providing temporary relief. Events such as earthquakes, landslides, floods, in fact, have been transformed into social and economic destructions due to unconscious choice of locations, engineering data, low-standard building production, fast, low-quality, unplanned urbanization and socioeconomic policies. Even on AFAD's corporate website, although the most important disaster events in our country have been described as earthquakes, the separation of 0.8 per cent of the total funding to the Office of Earthquake is a clear indication of the importance of measures to be taken against future events. The important thing for the government is to create new economic Rant spaces with populist rhetoric and practices, to open new gains for the allies, by making public land and buildings, forest, grass, mera and agricultural land, coastals, in short, all rural and urban areas open to looting practices. Dear lawmakers, our country is ranked first in Europe in business accidents, third in the world. During the AKP's rule, in 2002-2013, 880,000 work accidents occurred, while our country ranked first in the world in mortal mining accidents. Since 1955, more than 3,400 people have died in mining accidents. In recent years, the biggest mining accident occurred on 13 May 2014 at the Eynez Mining Room of Soma Coal Company, where 301 workers were killed and many of our workers were injured. Finally, 18 of our miners were killed in the accident that took place on October 28, 2014 in the mines of Konya Ermenek. This has made it clear that sufficient measures were not taken against the accidents in the mines. Accidents in the mines are not a natural disaster, but the necessary measures are not being taken. The main cause of the accidents is the lack of adequate and thorough inspections on job safety. The fact that accidents are caused by infrastructure and technological investments and preventable problems reveals the extent of neglect. Accidents are, in fact, not a disaster, but a clear sign of negligence and recklessness. Dear MPs, the AKP, which has been in power since November 2002, has been running our country for 12 years alone, dragging our nation and our state to the edge of the cliff. In 12 years, poverty has increased, our citizens have become poor, and corruption has risen to the highest levels, and the supporters have become tremendously rich. Our farmer, our tradesman, is a mess. The government is unable to carry out its original duties. At every opportunity, let the people live so that the state can live. The power, which says, has not carried it beyond a slogan. Our people have become poor, driven into debt. Our citizen's debts have increased by 54 per cent, from 6.7 billion TL to 372 billion TL. Our families have to split up 55 percent of each of their earnings in order to pay off their debts. Our tradesman, our merchants, can't pay their bonds. Since 2002, the number of protesting bonds has increased by 118 per cent to 1 million 91k. Our families have been deprived of the modern and prosperous life the age requires. 40 percent of our households are unable to meet the urgent needs of their home. In twelve years, one of the 10 families became poor. As our citizen, our shopkeeper, our farmer, became poor, helpless, the allies grew and prospered. The AKP said to keep the people alive so that the state can live. But let the AKP stay in power. The AKP has followed its understanding. Dear lawmakers, one of the artificial disasters of AKP power in our country is the economic problems of farmers. In 12 years, our farmers have melted from day to day into the swamp. Our country's cost has increased over 12 years, its farmland has decreased, and our farmer has had to leave his field. In spite of the increased input costs, our farmer's money has grown smaller and smaller. The most unsuccessful agricultural policies in Turkish history were formed during the AKP's rule, which became a natural disaster on our farmer. The agricultural sector is experiencing a major collapse. The growth rate in agriculture, which was 9.3% in 2002, narrowed by 1.8 per cent in 2014. Our farmer owes $530 million over $40 billion in 12 years. A million and a half of our people have left their fields and have had to fight for their lives in big cities, slums. The main reason our people have left their land is because they can't make a living. The greatest proof of agricultural reduction is in my constituency, Kastamon. In 2002, the agricultural area, which was 2 million 138,700 per cent, fell in 2013 to 1 million 505,531 dekara. Planted farmland has declined from 1,630,320 to 1,89,319. Our farms are getting smaller and smaller, and our people are giving up their land because of the shortage of income. Sugar beet production, which is of great importance to Kastamonu, has decreased by 60 per cent since 2002. The production of sugar beets, 314,085 tonnes in 2002, has declined to 187,000 tonnes today. The most important reason why our people have left agricultural production is because agricultural input costs are increasing. If these policies continue, Turkish agriculture will collapse and become helpless, like a landslide. Dear lawmakers, our country has problems from agriculture to industry, from the injustice of income distribution to poverty, from tradesmen, from education to health, but unfortunately the 2015 budget won't solve those problems. In our country, where the hunger limit is 1,225 TL, and the poverty limit is 3.990 TL, the government has made everyone in need of disaster relief. The wrong policies of AKP power since 2002 have become an economic, social disaster on our nation. Our country has faced a major disaster since 2002, and its name is the Justice and Development Party's government. It is our great nation that will heal the wounds of this disaster, and answer to those responsible for it, and end this disaster. The 2015 elections will be the biggest sign of that. On this occasion, I wish that the 2015 budget would bring blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0061par0314	Thank you. Mr. Reshad. Your time is 14 minutes, please.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0062par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the section of the 2015 budget bill on TİKA and the presidency of the non-Earth Turks and Associations of Relatives. I salute the High Council. The 1990s had opened up new horizons to the Turkish world. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Turkish states of Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan were declared independent and declared to the world. Like all the Turkish provinces in the world, the announcement of independence brought great joy to our Turkey, and suddenly brought the excitement of the Turkish world from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China. In these years, many organizations in our country -- the government and the private sector -- have been struggling with what we can do. Meanwhile, the state established the Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration (TIKA) to develop relations with the Turkish world and organise aid. From the day the TİKA was founded, 2002 had done a lot of hard work to the AKP's power, and in 12 countries in the Turkish world, we did not enter an office, leaving no land unresolved. Members of the parliament, the purpose of the TİKA (TİKA) would be to be reached wherever there is a Turk, a joint history, literature books would be created, the Turkish world would be united, bilateral relations would be developed. In the beginning, very important work was signed, but as of the end of 2002, with AKP's power alone, we see a huge change in direction in TİKA. TİKA was first driven out of its aim and their targets were completely changed, becoming a charity outside the Turkish world. Later, his name was changed along with the changing goals. TİKA has reached various places in the AKP's power, such as Africa, Latin America, Asia and the Pacific, and has moved its activities to those areas. It is stated that the aid has exceeded $5 billion. TİKA also increased the number of coordination offices to around 40. In Black Africa and in some Asian countries, the TİKA office is almost out of place. However, TİKA has almost left the Turkish world as it opens to the world. We find this difficult to understand, but former AKP President and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on February 17, 2013 that we are a government that has put all sorts of nationalism under our feet. Those words insulted the Turks and the Turkish. The nation also injured their conscience by mentioning 36 ethnic identities in their talks. In such thoughts, power would, of course, turn the TİKA (TİKA) out of its original purpose and into other regions. However, there are so many innocent and poor people in the Turkish world, in Kyrgyztan, in East Turkistan, in Azerbaijan, or in the autonomous Turkish republics that we can't help other regions. Members of parliament, Palestine and Gaza, many countries in Africa have been given great assistance under the name of openings. We don't say no aid to those regions, of course as human beings, but shouldn't some help be done to the Turkish world? Today, the Turks of Syria, Iraq, East Turkistan, Ahiska, Crimea and Azerbaijan are fighting for their lives in great tribulations and challenges, in some places. There are problems in many parts of the Turkish world. In 1948, on Stalin's command, they were exiled to many parts of Russia. Years later, they were granted permission to return to their homeland as a result of Georgia's commitment to the Council of Europe. We ask, how many families have returned to Ahiska, the native country of the Turks? HOW did TİKA help these innocent people? Why didn't he support their return to their territory? Crimean Turks were persecuted the same way. Then it was allowed to return to Crimea territory. On the way back, with TİKA's skill, at the time, 3,500 families were given homes and land. The return to the area has been encouraged. Unfortunately, however, with the AKP's power, the incentive has not continued, it has been cut off. To Crimea, their motherland, the Turks have not returned, there have been few returns, and the challenges of returning continue. Now, as a result of a global game, he was removed from Ukraine and linked to Russia. Again, nightmares and horrors began for the Crimean Turks. All right, we'd like to know if this is Turkey's area of action. Azerbaijan lands were occupied by the Armenians 15 or 20 years ago with Russian support. Thousands of people, children, old men, women, men, were genocided, hundreds of thousands were forced to migrate from their lands. The Black Sea and the seven Azerbaijan cities around it have been evacuated. 1 million people have been turned into fugitives, immigrants. What is this more than a million Turks of Azerbaijan doing now? Are these issues not part of the TİKA (TİKA) field of activity? Can't it be explained to NGOs around the world, NGOs, United Nations, Hodja massacres, the drama of 1 million Azerbaijan Turks, TİKA and the President of Foreign Turks? Can't the massacrers just be brought up and brought up by human rights organizations? Again, East Turkistan is crying blood today, and dozens of people are subjected to Chinese persecution every day. Although the Sincar Uygur region is the native country of the Turks, they are forced to emigrate. False charges have been made, prison sentences, executions. In East Turkistan, mothers moan and moan, they don't know what to do. Can't TİKA do some of the help he's done to Somalia, the Sincar Uygur region, or the East Turkic Turks who've been forced from here to various parts of the world? Why doesn't Sincar open an office in Uygur territory as a TİKA charity? Ma'am Rabia Kadir, the leader of East Turkistan's exile, goes to Japan, goes to the United States, there's only one place he can't come to, and that's Turkey. We don't understand why it's not allowed. And today, we follow the drama of the Iraqi and Syrian Turks by burning inside. The Turks are being persecuted in Iraq and Syria. Well, how much TİKA has helped us out here, and we're waiting for that to be explained. However, Turkmen MP Aydın Maruf made a historic statement on 1 December 2014. Iraqi Turkmen MP Aydın Maruf says: "TİKA helps from Gaza to Afghanistan, Nigeria to Pakistan, but abandons the Turks. TİKA goes everywhere, but it doesn't come to Turkmen. The help of the Kızılay and Ülkü Januarys reaches the Turkmen. Sadly, there is no sufficient help from the TİKA (TİKA). TİKA had announced by its authorities that the Turks would help and support their schools, their camps, but unfortunately that was not enough. In Kerkuk, at Camp Parseva, the Turks struggle to survive miserable. The Iraqi government isn't helping. If Turkey doesn't help, they're burning up about what we'll do. In Aleppo, many Turkish settlements in Iraq are under ISIS occupation and threat. The situation of the Turkmen in Humus and Damascus is also grave. As a result, we call out: TİKA must help the Turkmen urgently, not abandon them to their fate. With the change of the name and purpose of the TİKA (TİKA), Turkey's international Turkish and related communities and Yunus Emre cultural centers have been established, but neither of them have been able to replace TİKA (TİKA) and have not fully established their foreign offices. The purpose and work of the organization were of course very important. However, the Turks face huge problems in European states outside Central Asia. Today, more than 4 million Turks live in Europe. We have children of our own who go back to the third generation to forget their Turkishness and their homeland. The biggest problem of our children living in the European Union countries is the danger of getting away from Turkish identity. Many Turkish children, unfortunately, can't speak our Turkish, speak short. Besides, they don't speak the language of their country well, they're undereducated. As Turkey, it should be our duty to take care of all the problems of the people living there. But that's not the case at all. Today there are around 40,000 Turkish prisoners in prisons in Europe. Most of these prisoners are in prison for crimes related to drug use and sale. In Europe's Turkish youth, substance abuse is increasing, shaking society every day. Turkish youths do not recognise their homeland; they do not know their country's history, language, culture, and customs. In addition, youth agencies in Europe force Turkish families to take their children for simple reasons, giving them to other families. It is estimated that around 100,000 Turkish children were taken by youth agencies by force. A full policy of assimilation is being implemented, and the Turks are being tried to be forgotten. There are NGOs working on it. The Association of Hope Stars, which operates in Germany, is working and struggling with a great deal of self - sacrifice. I sincerely congratulate the president and his executives, all of the NGOs there at that minivan. This should be part of the duties of the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. We want to know how much help the NGOs established in countries such as Germany, the Netherlands have been given. If our country doesn't own the children, their families, who will take care of our people, of our children? In addition, the Turkish state has schools abroad in Europe and Central Asia. When did Turkish government officials visit these schools? There, our children are teaching and teaching under very difficult circumstances. We expect the ministers to visit these schools in particular. Their computers are very inadequate, the classrooms are very crowded, and their physical images are very low. Teachers are underpaid. As soon as these schools are closed, let's get rid of this burden. Is there any thought? TİKA, the presidents of the Turkish abroad must and must support and help these schools. Of course, they should help Gaza, Angola, Somalia, but the schools of children in the Turkish world are not better, and this should not be ignored. Why is there not enough help in the Turkish world? Don't those people need it? That's what we want to say. There is also the Great Student Project, which was established and operated in the 90s. The implementation of major student projects was part of the Ministry of National Education until three years ago, and has now become President of the Foreign Turks. We learned from the presidency that 3,955 students were brought from abroad this year. Around 15,000 children are also being educated in our country by the presidency of the Turkish abroad. However, the number of students is being deliberately reduced and the countries they came from are also being changed. Like TİKA, the President of the Foreign Turks seems very willing to take his activity outside the Turkish world. How many of the students who came this year came from the Turkish world? That's what we'd like to know. The goal of the Great Student Project was to bring children from the Turkish world to our country and to be introduced and sent to their country after a good education, where they would be served. And that goal gradually began to change. Unfortunately, the Turkish world is being pushed to a secondary goal. That's not true. It is also stated that a student is granted 550 lira and a master's degree grant of around 800 lira. These funds are very poor for these children, who have no other income. Children are very difficult to train and teach with these. In addition, there are only one comings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings and goings. And that's very humanly inadequate. Every year, our successful students must make sure that they have access to their families and return. Moreover, our country's dialogue must continue with students who have studied in our country and have a profession in their own country. A variety of projects can be done by the presidency, by the ministries, to maintain their love for Turkey. While teaching in our country, students must be brought together from time to time and encouraged to return to our country after returning home. After all, the Turkish world is one. TİKA, President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys in the region of East Turkistan, Sincan, Crimean, Kerkuk (in the region), Telafer (in the Telafer), Aleppo de (in the Alezap) and Lazkije (in the region), Ashbabat (in the city), Munich and Paris and Cümülcine (in the region of Cümülcine) say that the budget should be good.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0063par0340	Thank you. Kayseri MP Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0064par0343	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I, too, have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party in the part of the 2015 budget concerning the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute and its institutions. On 15 April 1931, the Turkish Institute of History was established to explore Turkish history, culture and civilization in scientific ways, to publish and publish, with the directives of Ataturk (Ataturk), and a year later, to bring out the true beauty and wealth of Turkish language, to raise it to the height of its value among the earth's languages. These two institutions, which work in association status, have signed important investigations within the framework of the institution's objectives. In addition to these institutions, two other institutions were formed under the Ataturk Cultural Centre and the Ataturk Research Centre, which was established within the framework of Article 134 (Ataturk Culture, Language and History) of the Constitution following the 1980 military coup. The property of Turkish historical and language institutions is that they are half-owners of Ataturk's shares in the Business Bank. The main goal of such an income was to prevent both institutions from being subject to the state budget and to carry out their work without any pressure. However, these two institutions, referred to within the higher institution, have been established under the 2876 High Institutional Law, which was adopted after 1980, and are under the control of the state's recruitment of members of the Science Board, even if not in their studies. Now, on November 2, 2011, it was introduced into a control mechanism above military control. In fact, what should happen is that a scientific institution should be held over politics and autonomous. As a matter of fact, Ataturk said in his speech to Parliament in 1936 that he wanted to see the Turkish Historical Society and the Turkish Language Institution organized in the form of an academy. Dear lawmakers, the academy and institutes of almost every country that serve this kind of service are fully independent of the state in both management and scientific research. Because non-objective research, despite the effort, the money spent, cannot be found in the international public. Unfortunately, in 2011, under the Law of the Law, by law, our institutions have been completely made a state institution. As a matter of fact, the body created under the new law under the name of the High Advisory Council is made up of three members elected by the Prime Minister, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Education and other ministers to be determined by the Prime Minister of Education, President of the Higher Education Board, President of the Supreme Institution for three years, who have been elected for three years among scientists known for scientific research. The President and the Prime Minister head the High Council of Counsellors as they see fit. I mean, give me a break! As if there were no scientists left in this country and the ministers had nothing else to do with it, they formed the High Advisory Board of this institution. Whoever has knowledge and conscience, everyone will question the work of political figures mentioned above the Council of Counsellors of a scientific research agency, as long as they are free from political debates. Furthermore, what will foreign scholars think of the scientific work our institutions are doing when they see that the administration is made up of government officials? Such construction is not in the United States, nor in Russia, in the European countries that we always take as examples. In addition, a scientific institution's advisory council is made up of politicians, and as part of the task of this advisory council, it evaluates the activities and activities of higher institutions and institutions in the field of science and culture, taking the necessary advice decisions and giving its opinion to High Drying and institutions. If these decisions are first noted by the High Institution and institutions, how can you trust a study based on the views of politicians rather than scientific data? Also, there is another substance that is not considered the duties of the High Advisory Council and is not available anywhere else in the world, which is completely evident that these institutions are not a scientific institution. In the 6th article of the 5th Article (6), decisions that are deemed necessary by the Council of High Advice are published in the Official Gazette. How would you interpret that? What scientific research decisions among the countries of the world are found in the Official Gazette? Thus, such sanctions put the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History in a position to search the military administration, as it completely devoid of being a scientific institution. Dear MPs, the situation is not limited to the High Council of Counsellors. The institution's highest level of Governing Body may, according to law code, call an extraordinary meeting of the Prime Minister or the concerned Governing Body. For what reason would the Prime Minister and the Minister call an extraordinary meeting of the Governing Body? Even the law, which was drafted by the military council in the past period, does not exist. Again, discussing administrative regulations prepared by the Higher Institutions and Institutions, the decision to submit to the approval of the Prime Minister or the relevant Minister reveals that the Governing Body is only symbolic. Another of the distortions in the law is that although the Institute does not have a research institution and does not have a scientific committee, the first joke is that they are considered to be responsible for doing scientific research, doing scientific research on Ataturk and its works within the integrity of social and human sciences, and doing seminars, symposium, conference, and so on. Again, scientific research, doing and supporting work in areas that contribute to the social and cultural development of our nation has been explained among its duties. If all jobs were to be done by the High Institution, then why were four other institutions established, and why were staff employed unnecessarily? However, at least the research procedures of the Turkish Language and History Institutions differ, and the primary scientific research mission is given to institutions with separate corporate personalities. For example, the duties of the Turkish Historical Society, which has developed nearly 1,500 artifacts, are described as the following: making the history of Turkish history and Turkey in all its aspects appropriate to the truth (in all its aspects), enlightening the national and international public against the defamation and distortions of our history. Dear lawmakers, even this sentence reveals how prejudicial the mentality of the law is. So you're saying that if you're in accordance with the law and you're in line with the laws and you're in line with the laws and to clarify national and international public opinion about our history and the distortions, all the work will be done in accordance with the rules. You can't do objective research in history by conditioning yourself. To whom will the truth be based, and what is the measure of truth? In the old law, the purpose of the Turkish Historical Foundation is to study, promote, publish Turkish history and Turkish history and issues related to its services to civilization in a scientific way, to investigate, promote, publish and publish. Based on these, it is to write Turkish history and Turkish history. A more objective was laid out in the form of a more objective. But in the new law, you use the word "damaged" and "damaged" about our history, and depending on that, you define the facts in your own way. However, someone will come out and falsify your history, as they did in the great century, and you will not be able to make a sound. Even though we have an institution like RTÜK, they won't make a sound either. Dear lawmakers, a number of our friends just talked about our ancient culture, so it's Ottoman. Now, no one who says that speaks Ottoman. Besides, he doesn't know how long our ancient culture will last. So it's just our Ottoman culture? All the way to the Huns, and I'll tell you in a moment, it has a structure. Well, then, if it's an ancient alphabet, not an Ottoman Turkish with Arabic letters. Let's go all the way back, but our friends here probably don't know what the word "cat" means, and they don't know the scope. On the other hand, the new law includes the duties of the Turkish Language Foundation, which is to study and prepare Turkish language for publication by identifying its source work; to follow research conducted on Turkish issues in and abroad; to create archive and documentation centers, information banks and databases within the integrated Information System. However, the aims of such foreign organisations are to demonstrate the beauty of language. As a matter of fact, even in the ancient law of 2876, the purpose of the Turkish Language Foundation is to expose the beauty and wealth of Turkish language to the height of its value among the earth's languages. Their task is to compile and scan Turkish language from written and verbal sources. By the way, our Turkish Language Foundation is doing some really good work. In particular, 21 separate Turkish dialects of Comparative Turkish dialects remove the Dictionary. It's extremely important. So it would be extremely wrong to put an institution doing this kind of work into a certain status. And indeed, again, if you consider the dictionary of the Turkish Language Foundation, it has given Turkey a dictionary that stands above 100,000 words. Dear lawmakers, let's look at the matter from another window, and let's consider what's best for the country here. Because let's get rid of the laws of military coups and the constitutions. You'll say, "You'll make a law worse than the laws of that time." In fact, what needs to be done is to become an academy for Ataturk's Turkish Historical Institute and Turkish Language Institutions, including these. If we do so, you can imagine how much they would serve, especially given the broad financial resources of the Turkish Language and Turkish Historical Institutions. The business bank revenues of these two institutions are about 60 to 70 million dollars each year. Now I don't know how long it's been lately. With the amount of money from the past ages taken from 2006, we have two institutions today that I think have a budget of about 600 to 700 million each. Thus, if it becomes autonomous, it will have the means to do all sorts of work. In particular, when the Ottoman culture beings of the Balkans have been eliminated one by one, while their present has been condemned to lose its architectural properties in the name of restoration, how can we accept the destruction of these artifacts that our ancestors left behind, each of which could be considered world heritage? During my presidency in the Balkans, in the Balkans, in Greece, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kosovo, Croatia, Serbia, Hungary, Romania, Crimea; in the Caucasya, Azerbaijan and Georgia; in the Middle East, Syria, Jordan; in Africa, Egypt, Tunisia; in Asia, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzistan. I, on the other hand, find it hard to understand why it's not even being identified when we're repairing churches in our country and even making mosques a church. As in Thessaloniki Bey Mosque in the Balkans, three films were played together in porn cinema, the dome was covered with sexual images, and our ecdatas, which were used as a restaurant on Thursday's Sunday as Camii, were turned into a church like Süleymaniye Mosque in Ohrida, are watching you with the same look that you were destroyed as Sultan Mehmet Mosque, who was called the Imitation Mosque in Ohrid. In Skopje's Mustafa Pasha Mosque restoration, it is interesting that the original float found in the garden has been destroyed and replaced with a modern lamp. In addition, the chalet, which was found inside the mosque of Filibe Murat Hüdavenddigar, was completely removed, as was the interior chalet at the Grand Mosque of Bursa, Yıldırım Bayezid Mosque. A small mosque, which has not been built in 12 years but has been destroyed for 12 years, after excavations in the Razgrad. Ibrahim Pasha Mosque in Razgrad, in which we thought to seek a church within the mosque. Also in Greece's Yenice-i Vardar, the Temple of Evrenos Bey is restored by Greeks and is used as an art gallery, used as a shrine painting gallery. Ataturk's grandfather's house in Macedonia was supposedly restored, but the old architectural property of the tower was rebuilt with Albanian architecture of the type of furnace, which was completely lost. Also in Thessaloniki, the modernization of the house where Ataturk was born was made completely empty and soulless, as an excuse to make it a modern museum. On the other hand, all our gravestones and graveyards in the Balkans have been removed, some have been replaced by parking structures, others have been replaced by parks and gardens. If you're going to claim our cultural heritage, try to do so before Ottomans, to learn that Ottomans are not so simple. You write Ali, you write Ali, you write Alif, you write with a spell, you don't know how to write, you don't know how to write with a word, you don't know how to write with a word. If you don't teach Arabic grammar, then it's Ottoman. Don't say that, you can write in Arabic in Arabic, it's that simple. On the other hand, if you're still training in classes that are united in your educational institutions, if you're training your children with the transport system, if you're training in classes of 80, try to solve them first. In conclusion, these institutions are really our institutions that will serve Turkish science, Turkish history, culture, language. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'd like to request a new amendment to the law on these things, and let's put it in a certain form. On the other hand, I end with an offer by TİKA to give the restoration work to better hands and to build a unit at the Ministry of Culture that they can restore abroad, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0065par0366	Thank you. The first statement on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is from İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Balbay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0066par0371	Congressmans, I stand before you to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party regarding the RTÜK. Members of lawmakers, you know now that military intervention or conventional arms to operate on any country in the world, to weaken that country, is a secondary step forward. Instead, we're dealing with media operations. Therefore, a country's national network, its media, is very, very important, and the country's integrity is a serious engine for further progress. In Turkey, TV channels, radios and televisions actually convey the benefits of the AKP, rather than the country's common denominator, and with that, the Radio and Television Oversight has, unfortunately, become an institution not only for the whole country, but for the public interest of the Justice and Development Party and its executives. I have many examples of this in front of me. But I won't go into too much detail because of the time shortage. Only, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was broadcast live on 30 channels in reports issued during the presidential elections, as well as two other candidates İhsanoğlu and Demirtaş were broadcast on tape for two to three minutes each. In this sense, the RTÜK has been operating as the High Council of Recep Tayyip, and since then, the public spotlights sent to all television channels by the Radio and Television Oversight have been on the moon for 8.5 hours. A television station can broadcast for 720 hours, which can be government property for 8.5 hours, which is mandatory. Each ministry, six ministries, sends and publishes this over RTÜK to televisions. Not even RTÜK (RTÜK) has the right to say a word about the content of these, which is sent from the incoming ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few examples of the functions of the Radio and Television Oversight are a matter of importance and a situation where the members of the government who are listening to us will have to answer. First of all, members of the Council of Radio and Television, which is currently on the agenda -- Mr. Ali Öztunç and Mr. Sulejman Demirkan. A three-member commission has been set up by five members of the Radio and Television High Council, and they are asked to be expelled from the High Council of Radio and Television. Here, Mr. Dursun says: "We have received a letter from the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: What have you done with these 2 people? " These two members say that the insult of Channel A TV is a punishment and demand punishment. Following the upcoming bilateral assessment and debate, it is said that two members of parliament are to be punished instead of fined for the Canal A. I also present to you the attention of Mr. Akshener. We've also been informed that the Parliamentary Office has not received such a letter from us to RTÜK. I wonder if RTÜK has even been able to use the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Other than that, RTÜK has sentenced the Pianist film to RTÜK for its recent bans -- part of which has also been publicised -- to RTÜK. The world has awarded this film an Oscar, RTÜK has fined it, lawmakers. Another example: An interview with Hamdi Gezmiş, the brother of Deniz Gezmiş, published in the Cumhuriyet newspaper last month, says Ismail Küçükkaya of Fox TV: Read this series. Take this paper, if you can't get it, it's a republic. com. Watch it from the tr., Mr. Lawmakers were sentenced on charge of entering this classified ad. In this sense, in Turkey, the Radio and Television Supreme Council operates not for public information, but for public information. The Radio and Television Oversight is now functioning to prevent the right of public information, not to use the right of public information and the right of people to express the opinion of institutions. In this sense, lawmakers, another example -- I'm naming it -- Mr. Electoral, journalist, is being tried for 11 years in prison, and only because the shootings during the travel events have not been taken care of, and those shots have led the community to different ideas. Let's just say that something like this is going to get 11 years of punishment, shall we, lawmakers? Unfortunately, reports from the Radio and Television Supreme Council also function as a case of evidence in severe criminal courts, which is a RTÜK evidence center, lawmakers. In that sense, I'd like the Radio and Television Oversight to answer both the way it works and the way it works, as well as the responsible ministers, why don't the channels come out? Why are the tenders of these networks now looking at differences that are unexplained to the public? Congressmans, this budget is the final budget of the Justice and Development Party government. We, the government of the Republican People's Party next year, offer this budget to the entire community more free media, a country where people can freely express their thoughts and there are no curfews.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0067par0383	See you next year, next year.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0068par0384	Oh, you mean thirteen years, thirteen years.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0066par0385	We do, but next year, with the bans, we're gonna get through this, we're gonna get through this. I'm saying your wish will come true, and since that's your wish, too.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0069par0386	Dream, dream!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0066par0387	We offer Turkey a freer media under Republican People's Party rule. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0070par0390	Thank you. Ankara MP Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0071par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have been promised to submit my views on the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Radio and Television Supreme Council budget. I salute you. Dear MPs, as you know, from the early 1980s, the institution, known simply as RTÜK, entered our everyday lives and became the target of criticism arrows in society. Because in 1993, the RTÜK, which was specifically emphasised that it would be neutral and independent, was likely to have maintained that feature in very few periods. That's because, in countries like us, democracy is considered a fourth power, and the political institution and the media can't get into a healthy balance. In fact, since this problem has been seen in other countries, the European Convention on Human Rights has clearly determined freedom of expression in Article 10 of the 10th article. The (1)th joke of this article explains the freedom to receive or give information or ideas. (2) The third joke defines the limits of that freedom. Under some circumstances, the individual specifically emphasizes that measures can be taken to protect their rights and freedoms. That's probably what the RTÜK was intended to do in radio and television broadcasts. However, it has even been reflected in the audit reports of international institutions where the practice is not at all like this at this time. See how the report from the OSCE delegation to Turkey to watch the August 2014 presidential election has been made. He says: Partisan appointments to RTÜK have eliminated the independence of the council. The provisions regarding the neutrality and accuracy of broadcasters that must be observed are not clear, nor are they in the YSK decisions. There is no transparent, effective monitoring and reporting between the RTÜK and the YSK office. The RTÜK did not share the follow-up results. There have been no complaints about broadcast violations in the campaign. Controversial statements have been made regarding neutral broadcasting, including members of the RTÜK. In the publications of three of the five channels that have been examined - including TRT - there have been openly biased campaign publications in favour of the Prime Minister, the OSCE said. International observers could not hide their admiration when they learned that TRT had released 533 minutes on Prime Minister Erdoğan during a three-day election campaign, while other candidates had given Ekmeleddin İhsanoglu four minutes and Selahtin Demirtaşa 44 seconds. Dear lawmakers, the events of these days in RTÜK have been amazingly followed by our society. Mr. Balbay has just mentioned that an attempt has been launched to overthrow members Ali Öztunç and Süleyman Demirkan. Do you know what Oztunç and Demirkan did? In order to cover the filth of their followers, they have performed their historical duty to some publications that have irresponsibly slandered the founders of the republic. That's their only flaw. In fact, the program, which angered many viewers during the broadcast, which even the Minister found appropriate to be punished, has been removed from the air, but opposition members have been targeted. Öztunça is still in charge of the public attacker within the institution. In the latest case, members of the Supreme Council in the operation to eliminate CHP members in RTÜK have established a commission among themselves, but as you know, all three members are from the ruling party. I mean, it's gonna be a treat, a treat, a treat. Ha, if these members of the RTÜK, who have rebelled against the introduction of Ataturk, who is among the world's most important leaders, as of today's small politicians, are expelled from the institution, they will surely take their rightful place in the hearts of patriots, but we believe that a possible vote will not allow the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In fact, do you know how much of this channel is being monitored -- I'm not going to say the name of the channel -- that's collecting all these reactions? There are only four people in 10,000 people watching this channel. And believe me, the best punishment for a program like this -- I mean it very sincerely -- is not to watch them. Believe me, the greatest censorship is indifference. When my dear friends call it censorship, I think about it -- let's get to the shows. I'm not a good audience, but I do know that Turkish shows have about 400 million viewers in 75 countries around the world. They are even considered to be involved in some political developments in the Middle East. Such an effective series in the world, we too are under strict surveillance of the RTÜK. We want to see that the careful RTÜK (RTÜK) in the publications that will negatively affect the development of children and young people is more sensitive to the programmes where violence against women is legitimate, where sexist rhetoric is skyrocketed. Look, from April 2002 to 2014, RTÜK has only found seven violations of violence, while People's TV has sentenced him 45 times a year. As a result, the RTÜK, which was originally inherited from the '80s, such as the RÖK, has to be reorganised in 1993 and 2005, becoming really neutral trade representatives and an institution that understands and considers the universal principles of our society as well as the universal principles of our age. The institution's budget was reduced by 45.7% last year. I hope it's moved to a good place. And although we have many reservations, I wish the 2015 budget and 2015 good for Turkey, and my compliments.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0072par0408	Thank you. İstanbul MP Osman Oktay Soşi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0073par0412	My esteemed friends, on the basis of the 2015 budget bill, I am honored to have the opportunity to express the views of the Republican People's Party Parliamentary Group in front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute you all on this occasion. My esteemed friends, my friends who have just spoken the press facts in Turkey have made it clear. The General Directorate of RTÜK and Press-Journal has been brought here by our friends with all their facts. I don't intend to go into any of this in detail. On the contrary, I'd like to bring to your attention something very important about the press. That's something that Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan, who currently serves as Deputy Prime Minister, speaks highly of right after entering the cabinet. I hope he gives you the good news that, on the occasion of these negotiations, he's come to the conclusion of what I'm trying to bring to your attention now, and that, according to my calculations, a very important problem has been solved for some 70-80,000 members of the Turkish press. And when I came to you before, I said, well, I said, it's a fact that politicians from Media complain all over the world. It's the same with the media complaining about the politician. The important thing is to minimize this complaint and to put the relationship between the parties on a healthy basis. Unfortunately, both of them still have very serious gaps in Turkey, but at least one thing that can be done in the media-related part is very important. The Law 212, which went into effect in 1961 -- I've submitted it to you before, but I'm afraid I couldn't -- is still not being enforced. In more accurate terms, only one of the five journalists is facing serious problems, such as taking advantage of it, not being able to take advantage of it, not being able to take advantage of it, not having social security, and under threat, in a vulnerable environment, in the fear of imprisonment and the fate of the boss's two lips in the morning, where he does not expect to live. The only solution is that Law 212, which allows the journalist to do his duty freely, can be changed and improved according to the conditions of the day; it is not the drowning of rights. My friends, after sharing my thoughts on this matter, I'd like to address your interest in Ottoman Turkish, which the Justice and Development Party has recently made quite a trend. You've tied yourself up with a love that won't work. Let me tell you. I was a journalist in the 1950s. The Prime Minister of this House at that time, as we know it, was the late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes, and he spoke the language you called the Ottoman language, and he was a very good speaker of Parliament. Even he fell in love with you about it, and it didn't work out. You know what? In 1952, a 203-signed proposal by the late Fuat Bridgetlu, translated the Constitution's language from the changed language in 1945 into the Ottoman Turkish, which you were curious about. What happened in one day? In one day, the chief of staff was named Erkanye-i Umumiye Reişi. In one day, parliament's agenda was αruuzname. In one day, parliamentary commissions were made public. In one day, what you, I, are called important -- we're still using -- was proposed, but the motion was passed. You say, "Gensoru." All that changed in one day. So, it's been years, but it's finally gone nowhere. Look, if you read the most counterwriters or thinkers to the revolutions of the Great Ataturk, today, the language they use is the language that shows that the language revolution is deeply rooted in Turkey, and none of them... if I come to you, I salute the executioner. What I'm trying to say to you is that you've become obsessed with unnecessary love. Turkey has four or five generations of Ataturk revolutions. Your language has changed, now you speak a pure Turkish bee. When you have reached such a clean Turkish language, what is the need to associate yourself with such concepts as "Musselles" or "Musselles-i-lul-lul" or "equal triangles"? Civility is in light, civilization is ahead of us, civilization is in breakthroughs in modernization.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0074par0417	In science.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0073par0418	Wouldn't it be better to meet you at these? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0075par0421	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Adana MP Turgay Develi. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0076par0424	Mr. President, I'd like to start by asking Mr. Yalçin Akdoğan two questions. Regarding a study carried out by the Editor-in-Chief of the Press and Information Directorate in Cyprus last month, General Director Murat Karakaya went to Cyprus, began the workshop, a day later he was called to Ankara in a hurry and replaced by Jamalettin Hashimim. Would it not have been more appropriate if you had relieved the general manager the day before he left, or taken him away the day after he arrived? Was the reason for your dismissal, Mr. Bulent Arinc, invited to Cyprus? Was this the result of the debate against the press? Second of all, this whole actuarial thing, the fact that the press is admissible, it changes every semester. Whoever has the power is trying to oppress the group he believes he's up against, trying not to get their professions done. Once upon a time, at work, near the national view, the parallel structure, as you call it, wasn't getting off the plane, and now others aren't. I remind you that this job is a persecution of journalists, a persecution of those who practice the profession, a persecution of those who try to do it, that those who do it have to be accrued, otherwise it's not a matter of honor and dignity to get on a plane, and I want to hear what you have to say about it. Now, institutions, in colonial countries like us...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0077par0428	We're not colonials. What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0076par0429	It's the management of decommissioning. Those in possession of power use all institutions -- to use the power force as self-restraint -- to suppress society. I'd like to give an example of these as in today's news: Mr. Minister of Transport, I visited the Court and explained the reports in the Court that the Supreme Commission had no longer been able to conceal the Court's reports, that the proposals that had entered the reports before were taken out of the Court without the KİR High Commission's knowledge, that the auditors in the field would not be able to write the irregularities reports that they had seen there, that they would be censored here and removed from the texts, and I had given two examples. One is that the reports of the inspectors at ÇAYKUR have been censored, removed from the reporting board; and the second is that seven reports of TİKIE's corruption in the 2011 reports do not report on questionable tenders, coal purchases in 2012. Now, the third one reveals that what the Court monitors have seen, what he has written in his reports, is an act against the fact that documents and information that have already entered the reports are no longer actually processed until it is written in the text. A minister, Mr. Minister of Transport, visits the Court, where he meets with his own group of auditors, and sometimes we can do illegal work, manage us, don't see us. This reveals to the public how these institutions have now become oppression and tyranny in Turkey. Why is the government so afraid of the Court? We call him Counttay, Court, Court. What is the role of the Court? The Court, as our nation understands it, is our nation's accountant. It allows taxes collected from us, taxes collected from all of us, investments, public administration, to be audited, and again in our name. You know, during the Court's inspection of the OSCE in particular, don't make inspections and investigations required by the Minister of Energy's own institutions. Just because Mr. Lütfi Elvin went to the Court, there is no actual pressure. Mr. Minister of Energy also instructs his bureaucrats not to follow the reasons for the investigation and inspection of the Count. He encourages them to commit crimes as well. It's been a long time, hasn't it? So, he wants the AKP government to know that nothing I do is to be audited, no matter what I do, people don't know about it. It's played with bureaucrats, it's spent, it's spent, it's spent, it's spent, it's not spent, no one wants to know. But there's one thing they don't know. Let no one doubt our people will find out the truth sooner or later. As Republican People's Party MPs, the Republican People's Party will not give the orphans the right. Whatever you hide, wherever you miss, the truth will come out one day. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0078par0436	Mr. Develi, just a moment. You just said we're a colonial country in your speech. I think you're out of your league. If you think about fixing it, I'll give you some time.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0079par0437	We were never colonial.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0078par0438	Dear Metiner, please... Please don't do my duty.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0079par0439	We're not saying anything, we're not angry, we're not yelling, we're just expressing our opinion.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0078par0440	I get it, for God's sake! We're doing it right here. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0080par0444	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the colonial country... of course, we have Parliament, we are an independent country, but the economic difference between being a colony and being a political colony is obvious. We're not as colonial as we want. We're as tall and free as we want to be. Let's just say, economic paintings are there. If there's a misunderstanding, I take it back, but everyone...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0078par0445	Thank you, Mr. Develi, okay.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0080par0446	I think it's best for Turkey to review its situation based on its own mind and conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0078par0449	Thank you, thank you. 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING [[Continue]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 "I") "Turkish language" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013 Yes, now it's Mr. Aydın Aghadın of İstanbul. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0499	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Treasury Undersecretary, Banking Organization and Controllership Board. On this occasion, I salute you all. But in a short ten-minute period of time, I'd like to know exactly what I'm going to say about the budgets of these three large corporations. Contrary to the gaudy rhetoric of AKP power, the facts of the economy are coming out one by one. When growth stops, inflation is based on double households, unemployment is increasing, the national conjunctural and recent political and geopolitical risks include developments in the external markets, the picture becomes very black. So, how did the Turkish economy end up like this? Of course, with AKP power's unpredictability, incorrect and sustainable economic policy, the so-called export of the AKP government saved the day of self-proclaimed domestic growth, presented as a success, while domestic savings were undermining in areas such as housing and services sectors. The financing was made out of foreign exchanges due to financial enlargement, where the current was closed. When the majority of them were released from the current open control of portfolio investments called hot money, power gave up growth. The global economy has entered a new era. The world's rich and cheap liquidity period has ended, and Turkey has become a poorly captured country, dependent on external savings. The jobs of developing countries in the new economic period will be difficult. Unfortunately, among these countries, Turkey is listed as the most vulnerable country in need of external resources. In the next ten years, we'll leave ten years far more difficult than ten years. It is expressed by AKP chiefs, particularly Mr Babacan, where growth will be lower. It is clear that the AKP's government has shown insufficient economic performance, especially in favour of countries such as Turkey since 2007, and has not been able to evaluate the abundant international conjuncture. That's why Turkey has been in the middle income trap for seven years, and the national income per person can't get around $10,000. Moreover, the same AKP executives are now coming out and saying that structural reforms will not be postponed to overcome this situation, that the economy must shift to industrial production, that it should end the luxury construction fair. For God's sake, what have we been saying for years? When the sea ran out, you came to us. But until you came to this country, we lost the opportunity and the time. Turkey's historical growth average is 5%. In fact, the average growth rate during the so-called AKP period was 4.7 per cent in the 1990s, when the growth average was 4 per cent due to political instability due to coalition periods. Where is the AKP's growth success? So let's look at this data, and let's separate ourselves from the fairy tales and the facts. Growth in the economy has been weakened, wheels have slowed, unemployment is inevitably rising. Here, according to the latest data, unemployment has exceeded 10 per cent. Twelve-year-old AKP governments have an unemployment average of 10.7 per cent. He's in a coalition that you don't like, which is in the 90s, 8.2%. Well, what about recently when the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0082par0504	What was it like in the world?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0505	Mr. Ahmet, you don't give me the answers to these questions, Mr. Babacan, because you don't understand. At least you don't understand. Listen, learn.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0082par0506	Tell us the world so we know.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0507	I say the world and I say Turkey, but I know you're capable of understanding it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0082par0509	Hodja, I don't think so. It's a shame, I don't see it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0510	The government will give me the answer to that, Minister of Economy.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0082par0511	I asked you about the world. What happened in the world?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0512	You're talking about a blank page.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0082par0513	What percentage in America, what percentage in Greece?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0514	AKP's economic policy is a blank page, please fill in that page. We say that AKP governments have been following short-term policies to save the day instead of solving structural problems for years. Now I ask: What fundamental problem, such as low savings, sustainable high growth, import addiction, low added value production, lack of technology, unregistered economy, crooked tax structure, inefficient public spending, has been eliminated today? Tell me, for God's sake! The same structural problems continue. What structural reform have you signed as the one-party power of twelve years? The economy's the same. You never thought of structural reforms in your twelve years of power, and today? I have no words but to say good morning. So with all this in the open...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0517	No bank ever sank, no bank.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0518	No bank has sunk. You say that your Prime Minister, your President, says that a bank is going under, and that's where the president of the BDK is watching.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0519	Twenty-two banks have been sunk by the coalition.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0520	The Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy says there is no such thing. Which do we believe, the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister? Say that first.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0521	He sunk 22 banks of your coalitions, 22 banks.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0522	You just sit there. You don't know anything about this. You don't know anything about that.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0523	I've got good insights.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0524	You don't know anything about that. You know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0525	It's been 40 years.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0081par0526	You don't know anything about that. You know what you're talking about. We know about it, you don't know about it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0083par0527	If you understood, you wouldn't be in opposition.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0084par0528	Mr. Hodja, he's been saying the same thing for 12 years. Don't take the fort. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0085par0529	I'm not interfering because everyone's picking on each other equally!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0086par0530	A improvement in public debt and budget balance was unfortunately not achieved during the AKP administration period. But the second side of the medallion, the state in the foreign debt field, is in debt in the past, while the private sector's debt is increasing today. The government says that the debt of the government has been reduced, but the debt of the private sector has increased. Isn't the debt of the private sector the debt of this country? Does this private sector live in another country? Whose debt do they owe? It belongs to the debt of this country. I'd like to mention another thing that's been seen as a success lately: Cari is a drop in the open. Yes, the government has reduced the current deficit. Cari, there's no doubt that in this far-reaching economy, there's a share in the decline of imports, and let's not forget the cost of increasing foreign currency and imports. Well, I'll tell you what's been paid to bring the current deficit to this level, why it's been waived. The growth has been abandoned, the employment has been abandoned, the production has been abandoned. See, in 2003-2011, 5.2 per cent is open to growth by 5.2 per cent, while in the last three years after the current deficit peaked at 10 per cent of the national income, the average is 6.5 per cent; in order to reduce the current deficit, the average is 3.1 per cent. So there's been a lot more loss of growth than an open fall. That's what you do. The AKP has finally transformed the Central Bank into an ordinary institution under its command under this wrong economic policy. The bank, which ended its credibility with inflation forecasts on its main goal of price stability, also lost its independence by pledge to AKP power. Where else is a Central Bank that hasn't been able to step in interest policy without permission from the government, and hasn't held inflation targets since inflation was set in motion? From the previous years, see, this year's inflation target is 5.3. So, will you be able to achieve that goal by the end of the year? No way. Unfortunately, the government didn't hit any of its targets, it didn't hit a hit. It's not limited to the Federal Reserve, it's not all the same. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation, wishing our budget to be good luck and good luck.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0087par0536	Thank you, Mr. Ayadun. Congressman of Manisa, Mr. Free Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0088par0540	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the budget of the Prime Ministerial Office of Disaster and Emergency Management. We're talking about the December 17th Lake earthquake, the 12th of November Düzce, the Van earthquake in 2011, the Soma. Somanek, the Tekuma Deresi, the Ayamama Deresi, a country that experienced the flood in Samsun, the budget of an institution that needs to be handled with a political, over-party approach, where we all need to be looked after and directed to the truth. Unfortunately, so is Turkey, and so is AFAD, not before the accident, before the disaster, or after the disaster. AFAD is not expected, but AFAD prefers to manage the crisis rather than manage the risk. But it's a way the world has already abandoned. The United Nations has left the entire world, trying not to direct the countries of Africa into risk management, into crisis management. Professor Dr. Mikdat Kadioğlu says if you don't manage the risk, you can't manage the crisis. Without risk management, a crisis management has actually become a fool's administration that deceives the citizens. What AFAD did was no different. We were in Ermenek, waiting for AFAD. AFAD came and first tried to recognize Ermenek, and then the mine. Then when a mine flooded, he realized what he had to do, he realized the need for a pipe. Three pipes in 12 hours, every pipe that came in burst. The pipe's okay, we need a pump; the pump's okay, it's not strong enough. There's a strong pump octopus, Istanbul Metropolitan, let him come. The octopus crashed on the way over. AFAD AFAD would be in the mining inventory of Ermenek. We've got a Y-coded situation in our X-coded mine. What is the need for inventory in Turkey? Fifteen minutes after the accident, a crane will be loading that pump into a helicopter, into a transport plane, and you won't make that decision in 24 hours. Let him go, twenty-four hours later, where the AFAD authorities say, "God willing, the octopus enters through the pattern. Let's see if the octopus enters the main road." He gets in, barely downloads in three hours. Octopus is diesel, it can't be used in the mine, so we're getting the octopus back. If this AFAD is going to deliver blankets and soup after the disaster, let's make sure we know and evaluate it accordingly. No, if he's gonna lead the crisis, then he's gonna have to re-reorganize for it. If we talk about Soma, everyone knows, we accept power, opposition, and AFAD Soma. Soma was in a row for 12 hours, and after 12 hours, it was already a funeral and condolences. What happens if you take control after that? What happens after 48 hours if you test the satellite phones? The incident took place at 15.10, a major disaster occurred on the mobile phones of the Manisa MPs. The message came at 15.45. The first news came to AFAD at 16.30, which took place at 18.15. If I had known, I would have called the AFAD County Manager instead of preparing to go to Manisa, when I was informed of the disaster. If I had called the AFAD County Manager when I heard, they'd have been on the move 45 minutes ago. We're talking about disaster management. Then, they wrote in the draft report of the Soma Commission, and came with the AKP proposal, and we objected: "When Minister Taner Yildiz came and seized the incident, chaos and chaos in the environment disappeared," he said. Taner Star is here to lead the crisis. On all of our consciences, in the motions to investigate, you will see tomorrow, in the charges against the Supreme Court, the first person in charge of the issue is coming to rule the crisis, and the Prime Minister says that the more you stand in front of the cashier in Murathan Mungan's book, the more invisible you become. What happened? He's trained, he's not. But it's not a crisis, it's what you call dumb management. If such a minister had ruled AFAD, instead of a minister, those who had specialized in managing those emergencies, of course, none of them would have thought of it, not all of it, not all of it. Of course, it would not have come to the dead, or we would have worn masks on the mouths of our lost ones and removed the blood pressure. Let's take it slow, let's not find 150, let's not beat 250 without the president. A Word Is a Processor, AFAD. When they came to the Soma Commission, we revised it to 584, but we didn't update the Internet. One word, one procedure, 98 approximately. Now, we have a major Istanbul earthquake ahead of us. Let's hope not, but scientists say: "There is no escape, there will be no escape. Let's hope we don't lose. We need to prepare for that, but how can we do that with this AFAD (AFAD), with this wire being poured out? What were we talking about after the earthquake? The earthquake bags, the children's education, the habitats to survive. Where are they? Now, DASK, Forced Earthquake Insurance, they say something simple, they say if you don't do DASK insurance, you'll stay at your aunt's house, the mirror will get misty, hair in the bathtub, hair in the bathtub, and then you won't be able to relax at home. This isn't preparation for the earthquake, guys. When it comes to earthquakes, solid buildings, a correct rescue plan... if AFAD divides 40 per cent of the institution budget into disaster intervention, 9 per cent into planning and harm reduction, and 1 per cent into awareness of tasks and responsibilities, then there's a problem in the matter itself. We condemn the citizens of this country, the scientists of this country, the innocent people of this country, the people of this country who rely on you to be subject to a foolish administration called crisis management, and we demand that the institution be restructured for the next process. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit02spe0089par0554	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0089par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our second round of talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Haluk Ahmet Silver.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0090par0006	Dear members, TİKA is an institution that should be necessary and strong to us. Of course, if the functioning of this institution and its current goals are in line with what it needs, its philosophy, progression, a big, bright country on a realistic line, and the future of mankind, if the rulers of this state institution, which has not yet been established by law, are surprised and do not see themselves as the propaganda argument of the government, then it is still an institution that continues in line with the necessity. Members, while Turkey's external reputation is rapidly worn down, its economy is described by world institutions as the world's most fragile economy in the coming economic conjuncture. If we open this government's economy with hot money, it's not easy, it's difficult, it's not easy, it's difficult in the coming days. Neither the money in the pool nor the late RD laws will cure the short-term hardship. We're about to enter a period where the targets will be revised over and over again, and the exchange will be increasingly difficult to balance. Inside are all kinds of policies, Ottoman dreams, attempts to teach young children about Ottoman language that changes every century, statements that will cause a sensation of secularism and increase social tension. Public opinion is occupied with these. I can't say that an internal front is being prepared in the event of a possible economic collapse. Let's think about this question. The last to visit Turkey was the pope, who was welcomed by the president of TİKA (TİKA) by the boss of the West Roman Empire, the boss of East Rome. The comment was made. It's not information, it's vision, it's a psychological analysis. Young people call it Roman deer. Let's not say that.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0091par0010	What should we say?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0090par0011	We look at it as an effort by the Prime Minister and the President, who are becoming increasingly desperate, to alter the image. These are, in a sense, the quests to change the agenda, to not see problems, increasing unemployment, corruption, or the impending chaos.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0091par0012	He became a CHP deer.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0090par0013	Congressmans, let's go to Africa and extend Turkey's hand and power to the people of the oppressed countries. These are good, but first we need to know what's happening in the main areas of our territory that we need to deal with, and we need to take precautions, and we need to exist in these areas. Otherwise, if you put your secondary interests first, that would be your political AKP propaganda, but if not, it would mean strategic blindness. After all, national interests don't help, they don't last, the effects are temporary and volatile. What's the TICA for, guys? First of all, all sovereign countries were founded to develop relations with the world's Turks and the country's relatives. Have our relationships developed in these areas? No, it hasn't. It's worse in your power. Why is he getting nervous? Because there are no realistic strategic analysis of issues related to these countries. In short, relations are regressed and regressed because of the government's twisted view of matters. What's done? Non-acceptable organisations and activities for the management of Turkish countries have been supported by you. Instead of establishing solid relations with these countries for the future, political structures and social relations of these countries were directed and supported by these activities. Now, of course, in these countries, Central Asian countries, Turkey's government's activities are considered cold. Turkey today, unfortunately, has become an ineffective and questionable country in Central Asia countries because of your policy. Now, let's see what's happening in the area. While China is implementing its policies of assimilation against the Uygurs in Sincan, it extends its hand under Chinese wisdom policy in Central Asia, Central Asia. After a period of construction, highways and railways to connect Central Asia to China and Europe will end. China's relations with these countries will become more intense. China's goal is to connect the economies of Central Asian countries to China, to arm Russia, to arm the region, to hit the spot. There are already over 30 border crossings, and free zones along these border lengths have been activated. Of course, Central Asia is a geography that has the most important potential for China on land, the heart of all Asia. The goals of energy and political power for China can be achieved when the road to Caspian, the land-meeting with Iran, the Middle East oils, the Central Asian oil, the Chinese inference. Russia is resisting, it's my insiteration. For 2015, I will co-operate with the Central Asian countries in Eurasia. The Shanghai Co-operation Organization is a non-compliant organisation, which has not been supported by China on the Ukrainian issue. But where are we in all of this?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0092par0017	Right in the center.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0090par0018	We're nowhere, guys. You're nowhere because of AKP government policies; you're not in Central Asia, you're propaganda with TİKA. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0093par0021	Thank you. Mr. Faik Tunay, Istanbul MP, please come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0094par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the budget of President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, which is part of the central budget of 2015. From the Middle East to the Balkans, from the Balkans to Central Asia, whose population is more than 200 million, we are a large nation of relatives and family members all over the world. When we come to this stand and wherever we talk about it, this is the first sentence that we all say, no matter what our political parties are, and we are proud: We are not a new nation on the stage of history; we are a nation that has formed states, and we are proud to be a member of this nation. We are always proud of our young republic, which has been created from nothing after the Ottoman Empire, which has ruled for over six hundred years, almost reborn from its ashes. With this vision, with this belief, a president founded in 2010 with no party distinction with this mission is the President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys. Then those of you who are congressmen will remember. It is a jointly-approved presidency with the consensus of all political parties. It is our duty and our responsibility as opposition MP before anyone else to praise the efforts of this presidency, which is well established in accordance with our global vision, our global goals, and the understanding of being a great state, and its positive steps. When we're on this stand, we can't ignore what's done well. It's our duty to say these things, to appreciate them. But the Deputy Prime Minister, who is in charge of power and this institution, and the executives at the top of this institution, has a responsibility to never, ever count positive criticisms from the opposition as criticisms to undermine power. It is our duty to further our relations with our relatives abroad, economic, cultural, social, in short, in every aspect of life, to improve and improve our relationship with our relatives abroad. This institution is not an institution of the Justice and Development Party. It is a joint institution of the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the People's Democratic Party. Then it is our duty to see and address some of the facts of this institution. There's been a list recently that we've all been keeping very close to the public. What was that list? It was the placement of people in public institutions who had no KPSS, no exams, no torpedoes. I'm not going to mention the names one by one, that's not the agenda of today's budget talk, but in an institution like this, our goal in a company like this is to improve our relations with our relatives, our relatives, all over the world, if it's to improve them further, there shouldn't be any pull here. Here and only the information, the hardware, the savings, the merit must be in the forefront. Being a minister's nephew or a minister's acquaintance shouldn't be enough to work here. Of course, that minister's nephew, his acquaintances, his relatives, if he has that knowledge, if he has that savings, if he has that equipment, they're going to be here, but I think we need to be a lot more careful when we hire people around here. Another problem is, what's the name of the president? The presidency of the Outlying Turks and Relative Communitys. Thus, it does not include any sect; it includes all sects; it includes Turkish, Kurdish, Alevi (Kurdish), Alevi (Ali) and Sunni (Sunni), all those who are members of the state of the Republic of Turkey living abroad are in the working area of this presidency. When we look at some of the work of the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Society abroad, unfortunately, we see that certain groups are out of practice, and it upsets all of us. If we want to be more effective around the world, if we want to be more active, if we want to do good work by taking the power of all 77 million behind us, if we want to do good, we can't discriminate against our citizens abroad as Turks, Kurds, Sunni, Alevi. We need to get them all involved in the work of this presidency. Another problem is that about a year ago, we all followed it. In our presidency, the President of the Foreign Turks and the Associations of Relatives, the public has found listening devices known as the bug. Unfortunately, it wasn't just found in the president's office, it was found in the other vice president's room. Several allegations were raised, and we read them in the papers, and we watched them on TV, and it was said that two women put these listening devices in, and they were involved in the creation of the Justice and Development Party. Later on, the Deputy Minister came out and said it wasn't true. We, as the opposition, are not interested in what political parties the people who planted these insects have served in in the past, what political views they have. We have one problem, a year or so ago, who put these bugs, these listening devices in this institution, for what purpose? What are the extensions of these inland and abroad? I gave this agency a special place to start my speech. Because this is an institution that is responsible, not only for being a great state, but for finding solutions to their problems, to our relatives and relatives all over the world, not to our citizens in Turkey. If we claim to be world states, not just in Turkey, but in the Middle East, in the Balkans, all over the world, the government claims to have a stronger Turkey, then whoever did such immoral work to such an institution must be revealed immediately, so that we as opposition, as citizens may know this. When we get stuck, there's been a trend for the last year. When you criticize power, even with your literature, even with your manners, even with your positive, guiding criticism, it is immediately described as parallelistic. If you're critical of power, if you don't like what power does, there's a predilection glued to you, here's parallelist, parallel MP, parallel manager, something. We need to get rid of this disease. If the people who put these bugs, listening devices in this institution, in some illegal formations inside Turkey, let's find out, let's give them the harshest punishment they need with their power, with their opposition. There's no way anyone can defend them. But no, if there are extensions of this abroad, if there are extensions of this with the extensions in the country, it's our right to know. I hereby wish once again that the budget for the President of the Foreign Turks and the Associations of Relatives should be a blessing. I want the government to take into account the positive criticism from the opposition. Everything that comes from the opposition is not to your evil, but rather to your benefit, because we are all in the same ship, we all want our country to grow further and stronger. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0095par0039	Thank you. Mr. Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0096par0042	Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the Republican People's Party on the budget of 2015 of the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History and Ataturk Research Center. Dear friends, the name of the institution is very beautiful, but its establishment and its subsequent impropriety have sadly hurt this beauty. Established by Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and supported by material, morally supported Turkish Historical Foundation and the Turkish Language Foundation were not a state agency under passive, political power, but entirely independent, science-producing organizations. The costs of these institutions were covered by Ataturk by his own personal income. After his death, a significant sum of the shares of the Business Bank of Ataturk was left to the two institutions to continue their work. These two institutions took the first blow during the September 12th military coup. The September 12th regime has dealt a major blow to the autonomy and independence of these institutions. In the AKP's ruling period, Turkey's Grand National Assembly was opened, but it was the last and fatal blow to Turkish Language Kuruma and Turkey's Historical Association, with a law decree issued by the legislature. These institutions have been taken under the roof of the Ataturk Ministry of Culture, Language and History, and have been transformed into any administrative institution of the state, and have been opened to the ranks between the supporters of the AKP's government. The administration of the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society, which had previously been in independent status and was elected by its members, is now determined by the President, the Prime Minister and concerned ministers. After the restructuring, both presidents of the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History and Ataturk Research Centre appear to have no interest in Ataturk when we look at his academic background, articles, books. And why are they in charge of these institutions? Of course, to neutralise the Ataturk and Ataturk revolutions, to silence the campaigns to defame Ataturk. Unfortunately, in the research of these institutions, the study of Ataturk and its teachings is insufficient. It is our duty to immediately make the necessary changes in the laws governing the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, such as the Constitution and other laws marked September 12th, to make Turkish Language and Turkish Historical institutions in line with the institution. As long as this is not done, we will all be left with the responsibility of having failed to fulfill the will of the great Ataturk. We regret to see that 90 years after the founding of the Republic of Turkey, Ataturk, Ataturkian thought and Turkish is subject to an intensive campaign of wear and polluting. Any negative criticism and attacks against the person and the republic established by Ataturk is being carried out. The Republic and its achievements are often open to debate. Being an Ataturker in the country is almost a crime. It seems that the goal is to destroy the Republic of Turkey and replace it with its own Sultanate. Political power is trying to achieve this goal step by step, and it's getting more reckless every step of the way. There's no need to go away, a presumptuous person who gave parliamentary personnel a lecture last week on understanding Mazreti Mevlana, at the invitation of the President of Human Resources of the Turkish Parliament, who made harsh statements about Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's letter revolution and made unspoken remarks about the Ataturk languages. Moreover, he was able to say so under the roof of this great assembly established by Ataturk, and the government tolerated it. Who does he get that power from? Let no one express that this is a freedom of thought. These words are not freedom of thought, but a clear expression of hatred and hostility against Ataturk. President Erdogan made the republic and Ataturk (Ataturk) a clear target in his speech at the opening of the 5th Church of Religion. It seems that the hatred and hostility of the AKP against the Ataturk era, which has been in its midst for years, has now become clear, even a move against Ataturk and the republic has been launched.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0097par0049	Your abuses are over.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0096par0050	President Erdogan, who took his Ottoman education on the agenda, could without hesitation compare the letter revolution of Ataturk (Ataturk) to the burning of Baghdad by the cruel grandson of Genghis Khan. With Ottoman debates, the infrastructure of attacks on Ataturk (Ataturk) and the values that he has added to this land is being made. And at a time like this, I think it's not a coincidence that both the heads of the two institutions we're talking about are chosen from people who have studied the Ottomans. With all these discussions, there is no reaction from the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, nor from the heads of the Ataturk Research Centre, and there is no comment on the issue. If the institutions owned by Ataturk have no claim to Ataturk, who will take care of Ataturk? While the Ottoman debates started by President Erdogan are on the agenda, I would like to share with you the wise words that came from a great thinker years ago. The great thinker asked Confucius: "If you were asked to run a country, what would you do first? " No doubt, I would start by reviewing the language. He continued to explain: "If the tongue is imperfect, it cannot speak well. Things can't be done right if the thought can't be expressed correctly. In this case, customs and culture are broken. If customs and culture are corrupted, justice will go wrong. If justice goes astray, no one will know where it will lead. We must understand and evaluate these wise words sent to us by a wise man who lived two and five years ago. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0098par0054	Thank you. Kayseri MP Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0099par0057	Mr. President, members of parliament, as part of the budget talks, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group on the budget of the Ataturk Cultural Centre, and I salute the Grand Assembly. As you know, on behalf of the founder of each country, various institutions have been opened in those countries, and the Ataturk Cultural Center is one of them. The building was designed by architects Feridun Kip and Architect Ruknettin South, whose foundation was laid down in 1946, was not completed due to lack of funds, and was later called the Ataturk Cultural Centre, which became the Istanbul Cultural Palace in 1969. He was devastated by the fire in 1970, opened a second time after the fire in 1978, and continued to serve as it was until 2000. In 2005, the intensive reaction of art and architecture platforms, civilian initiatives, despite the proposed collapse of the building by former Culture Minister Attila Koç, was the result of persistent demonstrations in November 2007 in Istanbul 2. Lu Protection Board, Ataturk Cultural Center 1. The group registered it as a cultural presence and prevented its destruction. The main reason why the construction of an institution that has the name of the founder of the Republic of Turkey has not been completed for six years is not because of economic reasons, but because of the 12 years of AKP's actions, in view of Ataturk, and in the mindset it has. Because I think the only word that they and their successor behind the scenes don't want to hear is Ataturk. Those who have heard the word "Ataturk" as if they were possessed by the devil are unfortunately very much present in the political arena today. But let them not forget that the word Ataturk will echo forever in this dome, and Ataturk will live with its principles. I say to those who are disturbed, that whatever you do with Turkish identity, Turkish nation, Turkish history, and Ataturk, you will not be able to forget or erase it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] During a time when national structures, values and concepts were battered, pushed and put underfoot, the neglect of the construction of an institution called Ataturk is a reflection of the mentality of the AKP government. More than ever, these institutions are needed at a time when concepts are so mixed up and ignorance and disinterest are through the roof. Members of parliament, there are those who are so afraid of the spiritual personality, principles and revolutions of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who are looking for a place to escape today. Remember, there was a time when the Chinese, who were afraid of Turks, had built a visible set from space, and they took shelter behind that set. Today, this mindset, which is uncomfortable with Ataturk, is trying to escape from Ataturk's spiritual personality by throwing the cover of the illegal palaces, which are said to be thousands of rooms in escape tunnels from under the ground. Those who were not sure that they were afraid like you, in the middle of the sea, in the middle of the sea, in the middle of the lakes, on the top of the unreachable mountains, they built palaces and castles, but they could not escape what they feared, neither will you. Don't be afraid to say "Ataturk" friends. Ataturk is light, freedom is Ataturk, civilization, Ataturk, development, science, art, modernity, the conscience of the nation, Ataturk, is dignity both inside and outside. Lifes of running and being afraid like this don't bring peace to anyone. Look, Pharaoha, he didn't even run from a fly. To this day, now, the Ottoman nonsense of the AKP. When the lawmakers say education, as you know, most public schools have bilateral teaching systems, and students are educated as morningers and nooners. I'll give you an example from Kayseri. A morning student at a school in the center of the city has to wake up at 4:30 if he lives in the Mimsin and Ildem districts of the city, leave at 5:30, and line up in the schoolyard at 6:30. Many come to school without breakfast, and because families can't provide allowance, the child who goes to class hungry comes out of school hungry at half past twelve, and when he gets home, it's half past thirteen, but he can only eat. So, are the nooners any different? No. All these kids are starving for about eight or nine hours. So in the morning, we send grandpas to mosques, grandchildren to school, grandparents coming home from mosques, grandchildren coming home from school. In front of the school are pills, bonzai, weed traffickers, dealers, who drive around in the dark of the weather, getting our kids used to these damn poisons. You couldn't solve your twelve years of dark power, and now you're talking about Ottomans, Ottomans, and Ottomans. Gentlemen, we don't need illegal palaces, we need new school buildings, we need new classrooms. Schools don't have labs, gyms, gyms, locker rooms. On days of P.E., kids come to school in sweatpants and study until evening. Where's your sense of health, where's your conscience? Here's to Ottoman. Today, Ottoman zealots believe that Turkey left Ottoman in one day and converted to the Latin alphabet. Congressmans, the debate has begun with the printing press. From 1727, the printing press had entered daily life, but it did not cause an increase in the number of readers. The reason for this is that both the difficulties of Ottomans reading and writing and the lack of sound in Turkish. For six or seven years in the Ottomans, children who had tried to learn this language were unable to read a letter. The truth is, they taught them the same thing. Ottomans made it difficult to read the alphabet. The Arabic letters were insufficient to express Turkish words. It was difficult to write private names in current letters. The Ottoman language also made printing difficult. The Ottoman Empire wanted to solve the problem. That's why they've brought Munif Pasha to Maarif Naziry three times, stressing the need to change to new letters. Each time Abdulhamid feared the illiterates and relieved him of duty. Because Munif Paşa was accused of serving as an infidel in sermons in mosques. But the question had nothing to do with religion, the problem was technical. Yes, the Ottoman Empire knew the problem and its solution, but it was afraid. How could the Islamic alphabet be abandoned? Here's what you're thinking today: how do you get the Arabic alphabet back to this republic? If anyone thinks they can read the Ottoman alphabet today, I'd say it's him. Congressmans, if you want to change the agenda, forget some words that are often used today, I'm going to say some words from Ottoman to Turkish: A thief. Bertal: Taking bribes. Mahfazai shoes: shoebox. It's a cash box. Betrayal: treason. I mean, not the lawmakers, not the Ottomans, Chinese, even Aborjage, even Swahili, even if you run, the AKP government's skills are in every language in the world. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0100par0071	Thank you. Mr. Gürkut Acar, MP of Antalya.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0101par0073	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, the beautiful people of my beautiful Turkey, I salute you all. The Turkish Historical Institution, which has been the legacy of the Great Ataturk, but has been a state institution for nearly 30 years, has recently been virtually dysfunctional, and I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the Turkish Language Foundation for 2015. I salute you again. We've been talking for three years, but we haven't had any results in three years, my dear friends. For three years, we have said that these institutions, which have been divided from the heritage of Ataturk, and are subject to special legal provisions, have been established as state departments. We say that our voices are not heard by the Justice and Development Party. My dear friends, it's a shame, to get rid of this shame. Before that, the coupgers of September 12 did so, so I am an Ataturker. The coupkers of September 12 broke the legacy and will of Ataturk. Look, I'm a lawyer who's actually been a lawyer for 39 years. And one of the most untouchable legal procedures of a human being is the probate. The will is very special. Only the will of the executor is valid, but Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's will is violated by law. And that violation, unfortunately, has made the Justice and Development Party's ruling even more violent with a decree under law. Now, we say, let's put an end to this coup and put an end to the shame of September 12th. The Justice and Development Party stops and says we're a fighter, but it's the same law that the coupkers make. When it suits him, he keeps doing everything the coupgers do, just as he keeps up his 10 percent dam shame. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary has made a long speech on the Plan and Budget Commission. I looked, in this long talk, the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society have a one-minute period, so other than that, they don't. And this is an indication of how the Justice and Development Party looks at institutions because they are insignificant, dysfunctional institutions. [[!]] My dear friends, there are insults to Ataturk, to the republic, because we're doing so-called history programs, from televisions, from supporting publications, from supporting pens, from so-called history programs, but we're looking at the institutions of the state. This is nothing from the Turkish Language Foundation established by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and from the Tük History Foundation. Like RTÜK, they don't see, they don't hear, they don't say so much. My dear friends don't say so. They don't believe in Ataturk, or follow the agenda, but either way, these leaders of the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society shouldn't be in those seats. Because they don't believe in the revolutions of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, they take their wages from his income, but they do what is necessary against Mustafa Kemal. Now, look, my dear friends, Ataturk says that writing history is as important as making history. If he does not remain faithful to the writer, the unchanging truth will surprise mankind. The Turkish Historical Society is supposed to be writing history, but it is not true. Look, I've asked the Turkish Historical Society a lot of questions in my previous talks, as well as in my budget talks. One of them is the former president who wrote a book about Vahddin. Last year, a symposium was also held on this Vahdetttin. The Turkish Historical Society made a documentary about it. How much did the Turkish Historical Society spend on symposiums about Ottoman sultans, documentaries? That's what we asked. No answer, no answer for three years. You promised, in fact, he was a hero. What was the money spent saying? That's what I want to know. My dear friends, as well as Vahdetttin in the documentary "The Departure" and in the book of the former president, and in the book of the Great Ataturk. Which one is it? A person he calls Ataturk is being presented as a hero by the Turkish Language Foundation, as well as by the Turkish Historical Institution, as well as by the legacy of the Great Ataturk. Is it possible to accept that? Source lecture? So is he going to be Ataturk or the former president? Where even the president refers to the Nutuk (Turkuk), it is simply shameful for the Turkish Historical Society to reject it. What the President says in his speech Ataturk on November 10th: "It is interesting to remember the new Turkey over and over again in the work of Nutuk of Ataturk. " But what does the President mean when he says that? Because the new Turkey and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, which he described, there is nothing similar about the new Turkey, my dear friends, from the bottom to the bottom. Turkey moved to a new Turkey on October 29, 1923. Turkey has passed from one person's sovereignty to the nation's sovereignty, and has been guided by reason and science, 1923. Today, it is the sovereignty of one person. Again, the one is dominant, and the other one says, "Let's put the Ark aside and make it look like the only way out of science and science." So let's give up science and reason and lead the country through revelation. My dear friends, what century are we living in? What kind of understanding is that, what kind of an old age is that? Where is the Republic of Turkey going? The president brings up the old by saying it's new, and that's the problem. My dear friends, look, there's a lot of issues here, there's a lot of time, and I don't want to take too long for that, but if there are blood and tears in Muslim countries today, if Turkey is in a different position from all Muslim countries, it's because of the forward-thinkingness of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey; the basis of the enlightenment, the modernity of its establishment; it's the basis of the female-age equality. My dear friends, the Constitution is equal to men and women. (CHP cheers) We're facing a power that's trying to eliminate this, and I'm warning our country and all the women. This power is fundamentally against the equality of women because Turkey wants to make it a country governed by the rules of religion. Turkey will not tolerate this, Turkey will not tolerate the collapse of secularism, Turkey will surely reach modern civilization despite the Justice and Development Party's rule. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0102par0086	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0103par0087	People don't believe you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0102par0088	Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0104par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. I'm speaking on the budget for Ataturk Culture, Language and History. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was founded on the basis of the Prime Minister's office to spread the Ataturcian thought, Turkish culture, Turkish history and Turkish language and to do scientific research on the subject under the coup of 1982. We as parties are not opposed to scientific research and spread of no language, culture, and historical reality. But in this land, which is a mosaic of peoples and cultures, there must be a legal basis for the creation of institutions where other peoples and cultures can study their language, their history, and their culture. Our party has defended its existence and development under all circumstances, without exposure to any pressure or discrimination, with all differences in identity and social color, and will continue to defend it. We accept as a basic principle that all people in this land have the right to live in an equal and free civility law. In a multi-identified, multicultural and multi-religious country like Turkey, the eradication of monotheistic understanding has become a necessary condition for our people to live together in equal, free and peaceful futures. At the same time, the political tradition that we belong to is the maintainer of a tradition that pays a great price for fighting assimilation and denial. All over the world, it has been possible for people and groups of faith and culture to live together voluntarily, but with equality and freedom. Our party, which opposes the policies of destruction, denial, exile, humiliation and assimilation of the Sovereigns against our people and condemns these understandings under any circumstances, has defended the past and the reckoning for the sharing of the sufferings of the past and for the enlightenment of dark history. In this context, the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History took over what social and civilian dynamics, such as many official institutions, and functioned as an ideological device of the state. In the beginning of the century, such institutions were created by the founding staff of the state to produce and promote the official ideology of national states established in many parts of the world. Although such institutions do not clearly state their own aims, such as research and projects for the spread of official ideology, they finance themselves with public resources and prepare scientific basis for formal ideology. We advocate that these institutions become autonomous and civil academic structures by removing the state's ideological and economic dependency from its monopoly. For him, what needs to be done in the short term is to reorganise the institution radically, subject to structural change, and to become a real cultural, language, and historical institution that includes all peoples. Because we need to ask for what we want for ourselves for others as well as the minimum measure of being a Democrat. Besides, modern democratic culture has presented us with thousands of examples that pluralism and equality are unifying, monogamy and inequality divisive. There are a few things I would like to point out from here: First, the public resources that have been transferred to many languages and cultural institutions with the Constitution of 1982 should also be transferred to hundreds of other cultural and language institutions in the country and supported by these institutions. Every language lost in this country, every lost culture deserts the spirit of this land. It is the habit of double-standard monotheistic ideology developed by the state against culture and languages, and it is absolutely incompatible with the principle of equality and justice. A culture and language policy that sinks thousands of years of historical memory with HESbooks and security dams is also a violation of the spirit of this land. The state, which forms co-work groups and research units with its own language, culture and history institutions and universities, continues to apply the double standard by taking the part of the Kurdistan Department at Mardin Artuklu University into judicial clamps and disreputing it. In 2012, we view the separation of a single 18-member quota to nearly 1,000 Kurdish teacher candidates, who have graduated from Kurdish teaching programmes, under co-ordinating of the Ministry of National Education and some universities, as a mirror for the government's culture and language policy. For almost a hundred years, language and culture have been transformed into an ideological weapon in power. The largest of the government's ongoing public engineering practices on society was made 90 years ago. There is no education in any language outside of Turkish in the country. We face a government today using the same methods and methods to apply Ottomanian language lessons instead of the founding official ideology that enforces the rule. I can only say that the government's insistence on Ottomanism, which millions of people have been reluctant to speak about Kurdish in this country, is that today's state system is far too far behind to compare to the Ottomans' pluralism in culture and language policy today compared to the monotheism of the state. History is more meaningful when it becomes an instrument of social and cultural heritage and truth than a source of demagogue and propaganda. The Ottoman archives, one of the world's largest public archives, are not only the Ottoman subjects living within the nation's state limits today, but important sources for the history of all the peoples living under Ottoman state administration. For example, the AKP government can demonstrate its sincerity in this matter by opening its Ottoman archives to full research and study, where it will impose Ottoman language on society. It is the only way to reach the rich resources of the history of Assyria, Süryani, Ezidi, Rum, Armenian and Franks, who lived in this land for some time and almost a few of them today. It is against the spirit of this age and human history when the government reduces a multicultural, multi-religious, multilingual pluralism to only one category of ethnic identity and establishes cultural policy on such an understanding. A state has a serious responsibility to treat all peoples in the realm of its sovereignty with equal duty and responsibility, and the state has a responsibility to treat them equally. Finally, I would like to point out that the state's policy of assimilation and denial should set up a public budget for cultural institutions, which will be created by civil dynamics in order to ensure that many of the languages, cultures, and beliefs that have been almost destroyed for 90 years. Cultural language and historical institutions can only perform their true functions with such practice. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0105par0109	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0106par0110	Mr. President, one minute to go, please add to our next speaker.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0105par0111	Sure. Yes, now Mr. Idris Baluken of Bingol. Should I add it to you?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0107par0114	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0105par0115	Fifteen minutes, I'll add, sixteen. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0107par0117	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I have pledged to express our party's views on the central management budget of 2015, the President of the Foreign Turks and the President of the Associations of Relatives and the Office of the Press and Information. I salute you all. Members of parliament, I would especially like you to listen carefully to the first stage of my talk, and I would like you to consider these issues within yourself, with a sense of empathy, with a conscientious reckoning that I will address as a Kurdish MP in Turkey. I'm sure at the beginning of my speech you'll all agree with what I'm going to say, and then you'll be left with your own conscience with a few letters of change in one word. Now, especially we, the People's Democratic Party, think that both the ruling party and the Assembly are extremely insensitive to the problems of the Turks living abroad. Almost all over the world, Turks face heavy problems. Look, in Germany, Turks are forced to live in the ghetto, facing government pressures that can't use their native language. I'm sure all the MPs in this parliament feel the same way about the situation of Turks who can't use their native language. In a manner of speaking, the Turks there are facing a complete cultural assimilation, so all lawmakers at this time should share a common stance against subjecting them to primary language rights and cultural assimilation. Again, look, in China, the Uygur Turks have the right to autonomy, autonomy status that we see as division from here, but the Uygur Turks say we want to govern ourselves. They want to implement the universal criteria of each people's right to govern themselves. We refuse to allow the Chinese government, the People's Republic of China, to try to break the will of Uygur's people, the will of the Uygur Turks, with pressure, exploitation policies, with a number of massacres. Not just for the Uygur Turks, but for the right of the peoples of any part of the world to govern themselves in this way, we are confident that all lawmakers here will object. Look, it's the same in the Balkans. After the fall of the Ottoman Empire, you know the pressures of the Turks in Bulgaria. They were often viewed as part of the Bulgarian nation. They were considered Bulgarians who were trying to be forced to become Muslims. In fact, if the government of Bulgaria wasn't ashamed, they'd say it was the Bulgarians who made the sound as they walked along the road. We're looking at such a sad picture. We think all lawmakers should be sensitive about this. In Bulgaria, because of both language and religion, the Turks are under heavy pressure because of their religious beliefs. Even a mufti there, by the local Turks, does not allow the Bulgarian state to choose, throws it out of the centre. The Mufti from Sofia has been assigned to the Turkish people there, despite the will of the locals, and its practices that do not know culture, history, language, social tissue. I'm sure you're all against it, as lawmakers again. Look, Georgia has the same problems. In Georgia, the Ahıska Turks threaten border security. They are being forced to emigrate on grounds of the move. Is it possible to accept such a thing? Is there such a thing as a public threat to border security? Would a government do such a thing? But the state of Georgia, it's a disgrace. We expect both Bulgaria and China and Georgia to face their unclean past as soon as possible, setting up commissions on the basis of their investigation and confrontation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0108par0124	Bravo.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0107par0125	The Turks of Gagavuz also live in Moldova, and the Turks of Gagavuz want autonomy. For a long time, Moldova's government divides the country. It opposes the demands of the Turks of Gagavuz. Then, with Turkey's mediation, in 1974, the Turks of Gagavuz gain autonomy, and now the government of Moldova sees that autonomy establishes the right of Gagavuz Turks to govern itself as a form of governance that does not divide Moldova. Here, finally, let me state the situation of the Turkmen you're all familiar with. ISIS gangs, which plague the Middle East, terrorize Kurdish, Turkish, Arab, Persian people everywhere without distinction; in Tuzhurmatu, many Turkmen in Turkmen districts, thousands of Turkishmen commit massacres, trying to sell their women in slave markets. Why is this happening? Because in Iraq, Syria, Kurdistan, Turkmen have no right to rule themselves. In the Federal Kurdistan region, Turkmen had the right to major language education, but the Turkmen people gave us their demands as an official Turkish language there, and we sent them to the government of Kurdistan. ▪ Kurdistan is a whole, undivisable. If we accept Turkish as an official language, Kurdistan will be divided. They didn't say it, thankfully, they declared Turkishmen official language there. Right now, the people live in peace. Look, dear friends, if you don't mind, all lawmakers are defending their mother tongue rights, aren't they? It is the greatest human virtue to defend the Turks' right to their native language. It is opposed to cultural assimilation, ethnic discrimination, the right to self-management, the right of the executives there, the right to be elected by the local people, all of which is actually accepted by all of us as a right, isn't it? Now, look, let's replace the T's and the K's in a single word, instead of the Turk, we'll see that the MPs' perspective on politics has changed the way they reacted to us. If I had reflected this conversation here as the practices of the Kurdish people, I'm sure you wouldn't all be in this shared emotion. That's the most important thing in politics, dear friends. Just as the Turks live in geography, if we oppose the ban on language, identity, culture, faith, just as we want these rights to be guaranteed in the laws and constitutions of those countries, then it's time to look inside our own country, and it's time to look inside our own country. He says if we think of Kurdish people as a danger to the Laz, the Circissians, the Georgians as a danger to the faith of the Alevis, the Assyrians, the non-Muslims, according to the universal criteria, we must give up quickly, I invite you all to a conscience. Dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I would like to stress a few particular issues regarding media-release policies on behalf of our party. As you know, in a country, it's very important that the judiciary, the administration and the law are independent, the power is very important that there are men, but as a fourth power, the independence of the media is as important as the independence of these three adults as it is because the media is in a position on behalf of the public that controls all these men that we're talking about. Unfortunately, the current situation, which is already bad for independent media, has been categorized during the AKP government. Instead of independent media, the media is being used as a political power tool in the hands of the government, especially through the bosses and columnists supported by the pool media with a number of loans. The AKP's approach to the media is based on a carrot-sopa policy, as in all areas, doing so in all areas, the AKP. Some of the tenders that I just told the media about show carrots, grow carrots, and on media channels that represent the opposition, free press tradition, the police are not missing the power stick of the judiciary. There are no MPs here who don't know the extent of censorship, especially during the AKP era. One example: In Roboski, 34 of our citizens, with F-16 fighter planes and 34 citizens of this country, were slaughtered to pieces, while Kurdish media and press organizations around the world broadcast live for hours, as the AKP government instructed media organizations began to write the news here after 24 hours. Even the ignoring of such a heavy massacre with such instructions, the hiding from the public reveal to us the extent of the censorship imposed during the AKP government. There's just no censors for the written press, for the visual press. We also met during the AKP era, with censorship of Twitter, YouTube, and YouTube on social media. I'm sure you've all seen it on social media. Especially when Twitter and YouTube bans were on the agenda, you've all seen the bad situation in the world's parliaments where politicians who didn't finish their speech had a laugh attack on the stand because of these policies. There's nothing to accept about any of this. If we really want a democracy in Turkey, if we really want a social law state, we need to create independent media as soon as possible. We need to get this media out of a government that the government has used for its own political purposes. Look, a congressman told me yesterday, and today the media-released organs are also writing: you were conducting special operations along with the parts you once described as parallel structures. Those parallel newspapers, as you call them, were given lists of sheets and sheets in advance, followed by your instructions by the late-night operations, where journalists, politicians, were taken out of their homes and sent to prisons. Now that you've left your way through parallel structure, you've made the current state of the parallel structure equivalent to the state of the parts you operated on that day. We, in particular, think that media needs to be purged from these bilateral attitudes, conjunctural oportunist approaches. Here are some newspaper clippings from that period. Look, at the moment, both the pool media and the parallel structure of that time, what you call the parallel structure of today, the broadcast organs came out with the same headline, and six newspapers came out with the same headline as you ordered. It is the same headline that New Dawn and Morning, Zaman and Today's newspaper have made. There are countless specimens. When I was at your disposal yesterday, these newspapers, these publishing companies were good, and since they were separated from you today, you started handling them at a different point. Look, with these two-way approaches, it's not possible to provide neutral media, independent media. I'd like to state here that your government has to take some steps to remove the barriers to freedom of the press. In this sense, I would like to stress that in the 2011 report by the Organization of Journalists Without Borders, we are the 26th ranked last among 180 countries, and today the situation is the same, and Turkey is still 154th in terms of freedom of the press. I'd like to rephrase the fact that these wrongs have to be abandoned immediately. Especially in terms of the walking solution process, freedom of the press is carefully followed by all of us as one of the most fundamental, most important points of freedom of thought, expression and organisation. It is also our wish in the coming period that instead of some oppressive laws, such as the current security package, you will come to parliament with a number of legal regulations that will improve democracy, develop freedom of press, remove barriers to freedom of expression and organisation. As long as you don't do this, I don't think your budgets will be democratic or your policies will be credible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0109par0144	Thank you. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party, I salute you and the people who watch us on TV with love and respect. Yeah, I'm gonna talk about some money, guys, treasure, banks, billions. Let me be clear, Mr. Babacan was bored, and since then, the speakers have spoken of other matters. Mr. Akdoğan is getting bored. Look, the money in question is the rest of it. In an understanding that begins, we have the right to ask on behalf of the people if there are those who love the mother of the nation, those who swear at her young, those who beat up her father, and those who rob the state. We came with their votes, that's why we're here. Now, why did I say that? I have to tell you guys. Because I came with such a list, who is the top 100 winners in Turkey? 100 institutions. Who are they? There are banks in the top 17 of 100 institutions. Thirty-eight of 50 banks have foreign capital. Then there's the privatized companies, like TELEKOM, what can I tell you, all the electricity companies have made a lot of money, it's about energy. You know how I told you in my presentation last time, energy, octopus arms everywhere? There's a lot of energy companies. So, who's next? Well, friends, liquor industry... then Turkey drinks too much, Turkey drinks too much. If the AK PARTY people get votes at 50%, then the AK PARTY people probably drink too much, and the other side can't drink that much at 50 percent. Ah, here are the numbers, number 27. Be careful, only the government doesn't receive indirect taxes. We receive 60-70 percent ideological tax. They say: raises, raises, raises, not so much. Exactly, that's what I believe. 50 percent voted for us. If you live by it, 50 percent of it goes here. Now, next thing I know, Philip Morris, cigarettes, monopoly, that's where he's making good money. Now, let's divide it by three: one, banks; two, privatized sectors, mining companies. Look, the energy field, especially coal, stoves, death, environment, nature, disaster... I'm going to go on, I don't know, five or six of them keeping themselves secret, there's probably a company that doesn't go public. I mean, I'm a little curious, guys, and I'm sorry, because I scanned 100 companies, 100 companies, and I didn't sleep last night, so I looked at what I had. We're coming up on the agenda of Turkey, mega projects. What are these mega projects, guys? Third airport, then third bridge, Eurasia tube pass, Canal Istanbul, city hospitals, Izmit-Gebze bridge... now, let's come here. This place, it's all good, it's all good projects, and who bought them, or who bought them? How many of these 100 winners are there? I scanned it, and there was one of all the companies, you know, it was on the phone records. Now, we're gonna sit down and talk. Back home, they said: "If you don't have a job, bear witness, and if you have a lot of money, vouch for it." Mr. Babacan, for God's sake, what happened last April 2013, with a change of regulations, you vouched for the Treasury, made it a garantator for the past, until 2012? Mr. Babacan, we've been working together for two semesters, and I really love you, and I want to say that in April 2013, you vouched for the government, the Treasury. When you vouched for this Treasury, you added back-to-back companies. Isn't that unfair competition? Maybe other companies would've offered high prices, the third airport, Canal Istanbul, the third bridge... even we'd have suggested strange projects like this, Turkey...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0111par0156	We'd blow it up.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0158	What's it gonna be? Now, Minister, think, there's no money in the pocket, he's got the contract, there's no money, but the government is a guarantor. He went to the European Bank, the World Bank, and he got the loan. He got the loan, he started here, and he has no responsibility...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0111par0160	He's got no money, he's got a reputation
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0112par0162	How many billion dollars?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0163	Because there's no personal responsibility, there's a company. He took the money, he blew it, the company's gone. What's it gonna be?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0112par0164	The government will pay.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0113par0165	There's treasure.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0166	The government will pay, so...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0112par0167	I mean, we'll pay.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0168	Now, the third airport... your Minister of Transport said yesterday:: "We've made a break for the third airport, we've started to work." Your former Minister of Transport, Mr. Balali Bey, said: "We've done 3 million cubic metres. You haven't delivered the project; you've become a garantor; you've become a garanteur; you've become a garanteur; you've gone to the World Bank, looking for money." Well, well, if you're bidding on it, who's building it? DHMI's doing it, right? You've also taken down the jeans at the third airport, God bless you. Now, I'm not saying anything, but I know one thing: this bail ends badly. Why is it bad?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0114par0170	There's misery at the end of bail.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0171	At the end of this bail, you made all our citizens in debt for 20 years, making all the citizens in debt for 20 years. I need to open up a little bit more, guys. Because this is the subject of the matter of Alo Fatih. A Conqueror had been slandered by Tunisia, and now he can't write because he wrote a conqueror. Why would you say that? Now, in the works of 2003, this regulation... regulations, notice, you see the legislation, the Ministry decides on that amount of billions with a regulation. He's in the council, he's here talking about the budget. It's empty, it's empty, we're talking empty budget here. In one pen, it's a regulation, 100 billion in an official newspaper. 100 billion is now indirectly in debt as Turkey's guarantor. You came to us here every day to pay our debt to IMF (IMF) in 2013, and Mr. Babacan paid his last installment in April 2013, and this year we lent $5 billion to the IMF (IMF). Wait a minute, we'll cool you down. No air like that. Now, okay, you paid. Garantism is worth $100 billion. Now, you, the public, have an external debt of 189 billion, the private sector, $277 billion, and 411 billion in internal debt. Now, tell me... you can vouch for me. As collateral... you vouch for these companies 100 billion outs, foreign banks on these mega projects. So, when you get bail, don't you owe IMF a debt because you paid it? Turkey may soon be compelled by the IMF to force this head. Look, we're giving you a very clear warning. Now, why are we warning you? Bakili Bey's... 20 million cubic cubic metres with what money did you make? I'm asking. You gave me the airport, or whatever, or whatever. You also lined up those companies. You said, "Go to the pool." Everyone's gonna leave 100 million bucks in the pool. That's right, 3 billion guarantees. Who's going to pay 20 percent for the government's 80 percent guarantee? That company will pay. That's what everyone pays, 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the government. Now, there's no way he doesn't have to stop by the pool with a code after he gets this. I think there's something bigger than the pool here, guys, seriously. Why am I being serious? Now, these coins are used on the road. This is the kind of money that's going to be used in these big projects. And notice that the Canal Istanbul Project will also be tendered in the coming months. See what the Minister of Transport says: we'll be guarantors for these coins. The company has not started working in the field, the area is now being drilled and studied, says the Minister of Transport. What the hell, guys? Tell me on the stand, did you or did you not deliver this third airport project? If you did, did you or did you not place personal responsibility on him? I'm paying for this. HDP is the people, we speak for the people here and it's very clear. Why isn't there an audit agency in this garantism? There are thousands of control institutions all over the world in every developed country. Why isn't there an audit agency, guys? No. Now, do we have $100 billion in secret debt? It's done. Now, with our secret $100 billion debt... if Aykut were here, I'd tell him that by 2023 years, he'd be able to account for how much people are owed by 2023. Here's what I'm coming to: You've given $36 billion to the GAP, why isn't the water flowing? If exports are going to increase in this country, we need jobs, we need investments. So, why don't you water the plains of Mardin? What happened to 36 billion? Yeah, you saved 36 billion. The agricultural industry will flourish, the agricultural industry will flourish, life will be transformed there. Forty years of project, twelve years of power, 12 years from 1 million 862 thousand hectares, 180,000 years ago, you watered 30,000 hectares. What's going on here? Now, I'll tell you the numbers from here, but I'm short on time. The Minister of Transport says: "A double journey of 17.421 km is only two or three years. This is $33 billion, guaranteed by friends, as guarantor... or is it that easy, 33 billion, fear God. By God, Şırnak Airport was built, they built a road, then the rain went, now there's no road, now there's no way. Your Silk Road, which passed through the silopi, was all three feet deep, six feet deep, and just yesterday, a family died in a car accident. I have spoken ten times to Bazil Bey, and I have spoken to Lütfi Elvan Bey. The Silk Road is a transit road, it belongs to your government, you don't do it intentionally, you don't do it deliberately, people die there every day. There's plenty of time, but not enough time. There's something I'd like to say about these banks, but I'm gonna come to this security package, folks, be careful.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0115par0183	What the hell is that?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0184	Security package: No bullets, no punishment; no gas capsules, no punishment if it explodes in the head.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0116par0185	The penalty for throwing stones is too great.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0186	In the security package, in the Gezi, in Kobani, where you strike, and you guard the shooter, and you banish his cause. Ah, four years for a slingshot like that, four years. A gun, a year. The penalty for a gun is one year, fellas, and that's four years. Is your government afraid of birds, Mr. Akdoğan? Is it a bird?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0117par0188	You hunt, Mr. Hasip Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0110par0189	What kind of a sense of security is that? Security is protected by law, protected by human rights, protected by democracy, protected by justice; peace happens where there is justice, my friends. Believe me, I have a lot to talk about. That's all the time is. What should I say? Hopefully, our dear Vice Prime Minister will come and answer that. This yellow envelope is also in fashion, you know, for bribes. Don't look at me, I put it back. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If this law gets out of here, it'll be a crime scene.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0118par0194	Let go of the slingshot, the punishment is severe.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0119par0195	Mr. Kaplan, if you threw a marble at the government, let's see if it falls.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0120par0196	As soon as he throws a marble, he throws a rose, he throws a rose.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0121par0197	Brother, we've turned you into a government, you're afraid of it. I don't get it either. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0122par0200	Thank you. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0123par0205	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people, I salute you all. Yeah, we're talking about the 2015 budget at Human Rights Week. In fact, the budget itself constitutes a violation of human rights. Because back home, you know, more than anything, we're talking about hunger and blood, a budget that smells like hunger and blood. Why do we say that? The prime minister says that if you go to the streets, you'll suffer the consequences. He says that they will be responsible for the blood flowing in a way that will bring back those who defend their rights. In the same way, the President talks about accountability from the people who put the people on the street, and so, when you look at it, we're talking about a budget that terrorizes the workers, the oppressed people, the people who want equal rights, the people who oppose exploitation. In the presentation speech here, the Prime Minister said that at the beginning of his words, everything is for human beings, according to us. Yes, the government is working down the hill to serve humanity, but there are good lawmakers, dear people, as you know, people, human beings. This is a budget for the President of the Republic, but not for the citizens. In this budget, as Hasip Kaplan has just shown, there's a lot of internal security, but there's no job security, no workers' health, so there's gas, copa, and TOMA, but unfortunately there's no human rights. The Prime Minister said, "We're going to expand the economy by promising to lead the G7. We're going to raise the economy," but the Prime Minister denies numbers, developments in the world, bureaucrats working within it, and Mr Ali Babacan himself. You know, there's an explanation for the inconclusive multinational income issue at the time: Don became, there was rain, climate conditions couldn't afford it, the agricultural sector couldn't make the proceeds it wanted, we couldn't achieve the goals. And here are the growth numbers, unemployment figures, inflation figures. Hence, preparations are already being made to withdraw their growth goals, but our people are still being put to sleep. 100 universities, 189 palaces of justice, 759 plants, 3 billion trees, 3.5 stories of growth, they're flying, but look at the numbers of our country's reality: 22 million citizens living on income under $585 a month... Yes, Turkey's Statistical Association says 15 per cent of the people are poor. 17 percent of the working population, 5.5 million of our people, are unemployed. There are 4 million minimum wage, and we all now know that minimum wage is far below the limits of starvation. Dear MPs, there was a magic word in the AKP's establishment, and we didn't hear them. When they offered themselves to society, you know, they talked about 3Y. What were they? Poverty, corruption, fighting against bans. Now, this corruption, poverty, and bans are almost the AKP's code, and that's the code for the 2015 budget, and it's spoken everywhere. We'll talk about them, but before we do, I'd like to talk about the architect of the budget, the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance is also talking about the holy march in his presentation. Yes, you have to walk because you know very well that when you stop, you will fall. Aren't you in charge of this violent capitalist order that says, "Come on." Then the Minister of Labor comes out, and the more he takes life in Soma, the more he says he's responsible for all those capitalists who are after profit, the more they're after production. Well, aren't you watching over them or not? Dear lawmakers, there's a great amount of anger in society. There's a deficit in the budget of 473 billion. What's this open with? It aims to increase revenue, a 12% increase in revenue. Where to turn it off, where to get it? The income increase will be covered from VAT, from OTV, from the citizens who pay most of it, from traffic tickets, from increased fees, and from here, as always, will be removed. Yesterday, we listened to "Bkent Arinc" and he was sweetly chatting with the MPs. I will not sing the song, but I will greet the working class who set out to claim it. I will salute the members of the House, who serve us here, who serve us in the brutal conditions of the House's work. Now, we hear the House workers are also organized. They were unionized, but since the union rights were declared, the trial they filed in the business court -- they went to the Constitutional Court. But Bulent Arinc doesn't see it. Bulent Arinc, our Deputy Prime Minister, talks about the salaries of the MP, the challenges of the parliamentary office, they deserve everything, but millions of minimum wagers... 891 lira will be raised by $1 a day now, $922 a new year. What are we going to do about it, you MPs? He's responding to the main opposition leader about the KPSS, about the torpedoes and a number of favours, but he's turning the word around, and he's telling the counselor, the secretary, how well they work in favourable conditions. Again, no subcontractors, no chores, no council workers. Dear lawmakers, the Prime Minister says we've increased education, health budget. How did we do it? We cut the hoses. Court reports say otherwise. Unrecognizable bonuses, penalties, irregularities, and, of course, the looting of the unemployment fund continue as usual. In March 2002-September 2014, 3.5 million of the 5 million applications were answered, 8 billion were paid. So, where's the other 90 percent? 90 per cent in internal debt, 60 billion out of 70 billion in internal debt. Everyone's talking about, you know, a presidential palace. And the TOKI that's out of budget doesn't know this account, he can't pay the bill. If we give it to him, the economic order will be turned upside down, saying it'll be bad if we explain it. Now, I would like to remind you of a saying that the President did not drop out of the old prime minister's tongue, you all know, what it was: the donkey dies, stays, dies, stays. Our president wanted to leave a monument, he built the presidential palace, but this presidential palace was not built with unsolicited wealth; this people were built with the sweats and savings of this orphan; therefore, there is no praise, there is no praise everywhere. And then they say there's no saving reputation. O President, what do you do with the reputation of millions of minimum-paying workers, workers, hungry, poor, living in plasterless houses, living their lives for nothing? It's not ours, it's 4,000 square feet of carpet, each of which is for minimum wage. The sultans have dignity, but millions of poor people have no reputation. It's always addressed to the Ottomans. The Ottoman sultans also built palaces like this with foreign debts when the people were miserable. Their glory, the people were moaning on one side. And now we're doomed to live unsanitaryly under credit card debt. The Prime Minister, who loved to accuse the nation of coups, tried to explain the Syrian little boy who was trying to warm himself up in the exhaust gas here through dictatorships and coups. The immigrants who fled the country's poverty and war are, yes, dictators, reactionary governments, but in the countries ruled by dictatorships, poverty and corruption are not missing. Here, it's possible to run regimes like this with brutal pressures, prohibitions. Tomorrow, in this country, non-publicist, war, poverty budgets, our people, unions, trade organizations, to grow bread, not palaces. So we'll be with those who go out to defend their freedom, their bread, and we'll be with them, and we'll invite everyone to go out there.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0124par0221	Thank you. Van MP Özdal Threeer. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0125par0226	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the AFAD budget. I salute you all. AFAD is an institution with a budget for disaster and emergency management. Of course, our country is a land of disasters; floods, earthquakes, great disasters, people become victims. Not just humans, but many of the creatures we share nature with are suffering from these disasters. While the original AFAD administration is possible to determine risk management, we, for some reason, have a budget for the institutional functioning of AFAD. So in order to avoid risk, housing, residential structures should be done much more regularly and audited, when asked where the taxes collected for AFAD or emergency were spent, the roads were made, double roads were made, so that 44 billion were spent. So, why are you using the budget of AFAD, where people pay taxes like this, and why are you trying to turn the earthquake into an opportunity? Why can't you save people in a flood? Why can't you pull it out of the ground in an environment where dozens of citizens, hundreds of thousands, millions of people, weep? Of course, the glory of a state is possible not by the palaces of its presidents, but by the social justice and economic sharing of that state. The glory of a state is not about whether the prime minister is tall or whether the president is tall; it is possible by showing how much the state can protect its citizens, how much it can serve its citizens. The president says, "It's not 1,001 rooms, it's 1,150 rooms." Hey, hey!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0126par0230	1,220 rooms.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0125par0231	1.150 rooms. It's the property of the people. Well, if it's the President, if it's the people's property, there are still families living in the container for four years, we want 90 rooms for the Van families. Here you go, let's go! If you can collect them, if you can have them come by summer, then let your lump fall down. We won't say so, but let your lump fall down, along with your lie. We've paid compensation for what we said. Why? Don't you call the Prime Minister a liar? How is that offensive in Turkish? There's talk of Ottoman, there's talk of metaphor. You have to take it all as manipulation. Why are they arguing about Ottoman? Doesn't everyone know that Ottoman is not a language, that it's a palace language? Why? People will forget the victims of the earthquake, people will discuss Osmanlı, people will forget Istanbul's earthquake risk, people will forget the families of the people who are under collapse, people will forget the suffering of the Syrian refugees, the Shengal refugees, the Kobani refugees, the war in the Middle East. As an AFAD institution... what a state normally has to do is, under the Geneva Convention, to ensure that they are sheltered in accordance with refugee rights. The Prime Minister, the President, says that they are our guests. There is an expression for hospitality in our Kurdish language. To the guest, it's welcome, it's shown at the head. I mean, he's fed to a guest that he doesn't eat, and he's placed in a place where he doesn't sit. What, though, would it take to avoid seeing millions of Syrian refugees living under bridges in Istanbul right now? Many of them are in misery in Izmir, In Konya, Ankara, Van. In Diyarbakir. Those who defend their honor are starving, but those who can't resist this persecution are driven into different swamps. Is that what you do to a guest? The guest has two things to say or say after he leaves his home: in Kurdish, we say, in Turkish, I mean, in terms of metaphorical terms, if your Ottomans were good, you would understand it because one of the foundations of Ottomans is Kurdish. Let your house be merry, let your home be merry. Or it's called, "When you go, you go." I don't know how to say it in Turkish. Words don't translate. You will ignore Kurdish with such an idiom power, create controversy for Ottomanian. We know very well that it is in fact intended to make the suffering in Turkey, Kurdistan, forget the injustice of the budget. You will build 1,001-bedroom palaces, 1,250-bedroom palaces, but in Ermenek, you will raise donations for the families of the people who are under collapse in Ermenek. Shame on you! Congress doesn't raise donations, Congress creates funds and guarantees their social security. You're going to spend millions, billions of dollars, you're going to fill the shoe boxes, you're going to fill the dollars, you're going to pay the euros, you're going to pay the bills, and then the kids are going to be without shoes, there's going to be millions of kids without shoes. Would such misery be such a disgrace? If AFAD is not helping the refugee in Şengal today, if he is not helping the Kobani refugee, if he is not helping the refugee from Syria, Aleppo, Damascus, the AFAD himself is affable, he himself needs to be intervened. Well, whose conscience is aching from power, and who's going to say it? Look, there was an earthquake in Van, a citizen, and millions of people showed sensitivity. On behalf of the people of Van, we thank all those who are sensitive. Most of the money they sent was in somebody's shoebox, but the containers were taken over the AFAD, and a lot of people brought containers. Now there are nearly 10,000 containers in Van. We told the governorship and the Ministry: "Give those containers to Syrian refugees, Van is rotting in the van, still rotting in the van, but Syrian refugees lie under the bridges in İstanbul, İzmir, Ankara, Mersin, Antwerp. Shame on you! It's a sin! It's a shame! It's the plague! It's called indiscriminate in one word! It's not an economy, it's not politics, it's not diplomacy. If we do not feel the pain of millions of children in our hearts, we will experience the same tribulation the day after tomorrow. So you, the people in power, the people who run the government, the people who vouch for someone, the budget, the treasure, the taxes that someone collects, the people who say they've double-tracked, the people who are corrupt, the people who fill the shoebox, of course the public will ask you, of course, we'll ask you, of course we'll go out on the streets, we'll make slogans, of course we'll fight for freedom, rights, and labor. So if you're going to come at us with anti-corruptions from us, from the people, from where you collect it, and you're going to come at us with anti-corruptions, look at us boys throwing stones, throwing stones is more punishment than throwing bombs in this country, the penalty for throwing stones is more punishment than the penalty for using guns, let's be careful, shall we say? So, what are you guys gonna do if they decide it's easier to drop bombs in this country than to throw rocks? Please, everyone, anyone who says I'm a sensitive unit in this country, be reasonable. In particular and especially in power, we will remove the package of security, we will threaten them, we will punish them, and we will do this. Let those who say, "Let Van's own conscience be the first to answer for the earthquake, the earthquake of Istanbul, the Düzce earthquake, the earthquake of Ermenek, the one who is in the caved-in in Soma, the people of Kobani, the people of Shengal, and the people of Aleppol. Let him answer for the responsibility of being a state, the responsibility of power. Yes, they're going to speak Ottoman, they're going to fight the HDP, but by the way, the misery of the people will be lost in the eyes of the people. Because, with the millions they've stolen, they've already bought themselves a TV, a newspaper, and a lot of things about it have gotten under control of the media. We're making a motion to investigate corruption in the AFAD. As MP, our question motion is being extradited. Of course, he'll enjoy his time there, there's the AFAD manager, there's the governor, there's the deputy governor, there's the politicians filling up the shoebox, but the children will have to live in poverty and hunger. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I couldn't complete my sentence for the time being. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0127par0242	Thank you. Şırnak MP Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0128par0247	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the High Council of Radio and Television's 2015 budget. On behalf of my party, I salute you all. Established to control visual and auditory media in the name of the state, the RTÜK is equipped with broad powers such as giving licenses and broadcasting permissions to companies that will broadcast from territorial, digital, satellite, cable and IPTV environments, and overseeing and overseeing broadcasts, making fines for radio and televisions and closing them. The authority to punish the media, as it restricts freedom of press and expression, is a violation of the public's right to information, which is a fundamental right. Moreover, these sentences to radio and televisions allow the establishment of arbitrary decisions to be based on reasons that vary from person to person, such as the Turkish family structure or the publication contrary to the national and spiritual values of society. Despite its claim to be autonomous, it is contrary to democratic values that the entity, as a member body, is officially a political government institution, to be able to serve as a judge and punish broadcasters, even to close them. In particular, the political-media relationship and the pressure of political power on the media over the past few years have been in the interest and authority of RTÜK (RTÜK), but it has not been able to play its role. We just want to make it concrete with a few examples. Diyarbakır Security Directorate has been constantly monitoring Day TV, although it has no authority. The police send their report to RTÜK (RTÜK) in May to be punished. For example, the RTÜK, which adopted one of these reports as a directive, took action at a meeting of the upper council and issued a fine on Gün TV from two separate articles and the upper limit, both for broadcasting and administrative fines. There are two things that stand out here: First, RTÜK (RTÜK) is accepted as instructions, although there is no protocol with Diyarbakır Security Directorate and no binding legal legislation. Secondly, even though all of the literature on the subject is the main news bulletin in Kurdish, most of it is based on subjective translations by Diyarbakır Security Directorate because there is no Kurdish translator in RTÜK. Again, by providing all necessary legal obligations, the RTÜK has unlawfully blocked its access to satellite broadcasting, not giving satellite satellite capacity to Day TV, which has received a satellite license for a year and a half. However, because of the 4A satellite that was launched in 2014 and was successfully seated in its orbit, the capacity is wide open. Why is Gün TV's legal right to broadcast this capacity to publishers who have received satellite licenses long after the day TV? The political responsibility for this unjust, illegal, arbitrary situation is Transport, Maritime and Communications Minister Mr. Lütfi Elvan. In Turkey, where social problems are at the top, many state managers, especially the rulers of political power, voiced statements fueling social hatred and hatred through visual, auditory media. Such racist, nationalist and militant series, such as Compassion Tepe, One Turkey, Sakarya Firat, can also be broadcast on public broadcasters with taxes from 76 million people, as well as in private broadcasters. Even though Law number 6112 stipulates certain jokes in this regard, these racist, nationalist sequences have thus far not been decided on any basis. How many shows have been punished by RTÜK in recent years, despite the series of shows that have humiliated racists, fascists and Kurdish people? Zero, zero. RTÜK, who has made a very comfortable decision to punish broadcasters because of the rhetoric used by opposing politicians, has failed to apply it to broadcasters due to the rhetoric of no member of the political power, particularly the President. For example, Mr. President Erdogan, on October 21, 2014, at the Ombudsman's Symposium, Berkin had no conscience for Elvan as "the pawn of the terror organization." He used the phrase. Mr. Erdogan has not even warned the publishers that the RTÜK has published these words, even though it has attempted to provoke hatred and hostility, publicly insulting, insulting a person's memory, and trying to influence a fair trial. In the same way, Mr. Erdogan was openly racist in a television station saying, "Excuse me, Armenian." The RTÜK has not done its duty in this matter either. Because RTÜK makes decisions, not what the breach is, but who did it. To sever the political umbilical cord to power and make fair decisions, the following steps must be taken immediately: A change must be made in the method of RTÜK's membership. In the current case, all nine members are elected by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Professional organisations such as the Association of Journalists, Journalists Union, Press Council, Radio and Television Owners and Publishers Association must also be allowed to have a say in the membership election. The authority to punish the media organizations of the RTÜK (RTÜK) must be handed over to the judiciary. To this end, complaints and problems that have arisen must be resolved through the establishment of media-related specialization courts. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the areas in which power becomes a backyard. The TRT and its networks, in public publishing, provide their income from the taxes of this people, are therefore obliged to stay at equal distances from all political circles; it has to observe the equality of opportunity between the works and the talks of political parties and their representatives. The public publisher, TRT, has become the propaganda tool and baton of power. The apparent difference between the ruling, main opposition and opposition parties in parliament has no explanation in legal or moral or international contracts. On March 30, 2014, TRT was sentenced by the YSK for its biased broadcasts, including 7, 10 August 2014, 9 in the presidential elections. The decision issued by the High Judiciary body, YSK (YSK) to halt 16 publications has registered the subjectivity of TRT (TRT) and the bias of power. The TRT, in particular the presidential election, has more monarchies than the king, as he put it. Based on RTÜK Digital Record Archives and Analysis System data, there is a huge gap between the period when the political parties whose group is in parliament are on TRT 1 and TRT News channels. TRT has almost turned into a party's official broadcaster. This reality cannot be a one-way or party to political parties and democratic groups in Article 8 (k) of Article 6112, which regulates publication principles of Law 6112, which clearly violates the rule. Despite these open violations, how was TRT processed by RTÜK? We really want to learn this from Mr. Yalçın Akdoğan, who is responsible for media institutions such as TRT, Anadolu Agency and RTÜK. Now even the deaf sultan knows that the SETA Foundation, as in many written media, uses TRT (TRT) as its own broadcaster, depending on its relationship with the AKP. This organisation, TRT, and many private networks almost set a publishing policy, and its managers -- including the head of the film -- are doing debate and news programmes as moderators. I mean, the government, like almost all channels now, plays by itself in the TRT, which stands on the tax of the people. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, TRT-6, have become even more marginalized today and have entered the direction of the community as early periods followed by publishing policy in the direction of environments close to the government. So that even close to the government, the government is now working as a branch of the community's TV channel, which is now a branch of the World TV. Members of the congregation are now being suspended, but they are not being successful enough. No other broadcast could be expected from such a television company, which has no corporate philosophy, lacks legal basis, and is in the hands of the government, so to speak. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0129par0262	Thank you. Mr. Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0130par0267	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party regarding the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill, the Ataturk Research Centre, the Ataturk Cultural Centre, the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Foundation. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. There are two ways to destroy peoples and societies and erase them from the scene of history: First, their culture and language, and second, destroy their history and nullify their memory. Therefore, from the founding of the republic until today, Kurdish people have been forced to emigrate with genocides, genocides, oppression, persecution, torture, forced housing, exile, barracks culture, assimilation, tried to be silenced with Takir-i Sukûn. But since it has a rich culture and language structure, this ceberut never defied the state system. The Kurdish people who were hungry for freedom did not submit to the tyranny of power, knowing how to resist injustice, lawlessness, by reinventing themselves from their own ashes. Since it was founded, historical institutions, single state understanding and institutions that have been organised through language institutions have been a fundamentally opposite character to democratic and pluralist political life. These institutions, which have historically lost its validity, have been set up as an ideological branch of the nation's state mechanism created in Turkey since the day it was founded -- the Turkish language institution. The only nation that has been transformed into a dominant political culture with the founding of the Republic, the Turkish Language Foundation, the Turkish Institute for History, Asia Minor and Mesopotamia, has ruled out the cultures, languages of Kurds, Armenians, Suryans, Lazs, Circastics, and all other peoples, as a product of its one language and one country, by denying and rejecting other languages. Throughout the history of the Republic, the policy of eliminating languages outside of Turkish has unfortunately continued during the period of the AK PARTY government. The Turkish Historical Society's claim that the origins of the Turkish nation, a historical creation that is not natural data, have nothing to do with the fact that it is a glorious date that reaches the depths of its origin; like any nation, the creation of the Turkish nation is one of the institutional tools for the creation of the political, cultural and sociological thinking world in people's minds and for the creation of every moment in the minds. This institution, which is fully ideological with the mechanisms of exclusion, assimilation, assimilation, has a function contrary to Turkey's pluralist social structure. As far as science and independence are concerned, there is nothing to defend from this institution, where a series of studies have been carried out, as far as history is concerned, until the official ideology is distorted in accordance with its wishes. The understanding of governance in Turkey, which adopts as an official ideology to eliminate cultures by assimilate all differences, including Kurdish and Kurdistan people, is a goal to single-mindedize society, as there is no solution to any social problems. The political and administrative mechanisms of the state, organised as a solid-centralised nation state, have created an oligarchy structure rather than creating a democratic republic, so in Turkey, it has created many legal barriers to the use of different languages outside of Turkish language. The legal amendment that paves the way for Kurdish education in the most recent private schools the government has produced is highly inadequate and unfair. The education of Kurdish and other languages must be provided at public schools, and people in every classroom must benefit from it. Turkey's society blockes every step towards democratisation and human rights due to division, disintegration paranoia when it comes to Kurdish people and Kurdish people's language. Multilingual, multicultural, multi-religiousness has never divided or broken a country, but has allowed different societies to live better together. For example, Belgium, Germany, even the Far East, India, Indonesia, India, India, are carrying on in 15 official languages, but unfortunately Turkey, when it is mentioned in Kurdish, it has the impression that Turkey will be torn apart and divided in one day. Of course, the Article 42 of the Constitution, which prohibits languages in education outside of Turkish, must be changed. All antidemocratic laws must be lifted. A stronger Turkey is in everyone's best interest with the removal of laws that do not suit human dignity and honor, strengthening the democratic republic. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in addition to all other sections of Kurdistan and Anatolian languages established in universities, are required to be opened and published, to be taught in educational institutions, to be immediately processed. People should not be punished or discredited for significant contributions made in the field of Kurdistan; rather, work on all languages and dates should be supported not only in Kurdish language. Those who graduated from Artuklu University's Department of Kurdish Language and Literature were not appointed. I'd like to call the Minister of National Education on this. You're violating the principle of equality. Where's the equality? Why don't you do it? After you finish studying Kurdish language, after you finish college, why don't you appoint them to schools? We demand names on streets, streets, avenues, Turkish-Kurdish, employment of Kurdish-speaking staff in public institutions and institutions, and removal of all kinds of pressure and bans. In fact, in airlines, bus stations, trains, Kurdish announcements should be made in two languages. The Turkish Historical Foundation should be transformed into an institution that serves all different languages at the core of the Turkish Language Foundation, but unfortunately it's always said in official languages that we accept differences as wealth. There's nothing there. Otherwise, these institutions will have no value. Now it is said: "Why should a Kurdish citizen learn Ottoman language again? Why should he not be educated in his own language and be prevented from asking for this education? Now, Ottoman, right, is a palace language. And only the court will speak this language? I wonder how the people who speak on this street will relate to the palace. I'm the government of the world. ...as my flock flows from the wares of the nation. This is said by Mr. Galip of Leskof, and he says that there are no more tears in the eyes of this people, and instead of tears, there are pus in the eyes of the court, but they still don't know it. There's a huge disconnect between the palace and the public. So, how is this language going to do it? Denial, destruction, assimilation and ban policies in Turkey could not prevent Kurdish people from using language. Despite such bans, Kurdish language has come between wealth and number-one languages in the world. It's like a poet once said... [[*]] Look, make a connection between the two. The main feature of both is that they are made up of Kurdish sentences. If you learn Kurdish, you will learn Ottoman. If you don't speak Kurdish, I don't think you'll understand anything from Ottoman, because I don't think you'll understand anything from Ottoman... in fact, I mean, it's like Court literature, if you're going to do some sort of analysis from Nedim, I'm not going to say anything to him, but I'm sure if you tell Namik Kemal from others, these people can learn things from these books, but you don't do that either. How does Namik Kemal say: For the uncompromising peace of the century, We are removed from the kingdom of glory and glory. It's a dog who enjoys the service of a noble man, When the Merd flees from the battle for a life, Really, if you can't understand the evil of this state, the cruelty, the torture, the oppression... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you're seeing and you're being silent about it, you should consider yourself.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0131par0298	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Özcan Uupınar of Zonguldak. You have five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0132par0303	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my favour to you on behalf of myself on behalf of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute your high council. On the way to New Turkey, the government has renewed its power and renewed its power from our nation, and has prepared the 2015 budget with its entire staff to address the goals set in the 100th year of our republic, focusing on economic and political stability. I'd like to thank the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, our Finance Minister, the experts of the relevant institutions and organisations who have been involved in preparing our budget for specific goals. Our country is located in a geologic, sociocultural, and historically interconnected society, which is the cradle of civilisations, of states. In our 50-year exodus history, we have more and more citizens from all over the world, who are now more than six million people, and their social, economic and cultural participation in the countries they live in is growing every day. One of the most important steps we've taken during our rule in 2010 was to establish the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad, one of the most important steps we've taken in order to make the work of our citizens who have emigrated abroad for various reasons more effective and permanent. The Yunus Emre Institute, founded in 2007 to promote Turkish language, history, culture and art, boost cultural exchange with other countries and strengthen our friendship with other countries, is currently operating at 38 centers in 30 countries. Some 22,000 people were taught Turkish because of the courses provided at these centers. As part of the study of Turkish as a second foreign language, 6,000 students are learning Turkish as a foreign language. In the last two years, we have opened 52 libraries by building libraries consisting of 2,000 books under the name of the Turkish Libraries. As our country's economy grew, we put more emphasis on the opportunities for development aid in order for good, right and justice to prevail in the world. Wherever there's a victim, wherever there's a victim, we come to his aid and we run. IN 38 countries today, the TİKA has 40 programme coordination offices and projects in different parts of the world. Every help is human contact, a hello. In this framework, TİKA has signed permanent and qualified work that will make many countries jealous in many areas around the world, such as education, health care, housing, drinking water, artificial seeding and gene centers. Turkey's Radio and Television Foundation is among 15 television channels, 6 (national) national and 2 (national) international, 15 radio stations, 2 printed and 1 digital magazine and Turkey's major media outlets. In addition to Western languages, the TRT publishes 38 languages from Dahrece to Uygur. We open 24 hours of TRT School, TRT Boy, TRT Avaz, TRT Shesh, TRT Arabic channels as well as TRT English channel in a short time. We have also removed the gap in this area by starting the Anti-Breasure TRT for our disabled citizens. The AFAD presidency, established in 2009 to make friends with the fallen, performs disaster interventions by means of its headquarters in our 81 districts without a single-handed waste of resources. In particular, the Kütahya and Van quakes and other floods in our country have fought quickly and effectively after disasters such as the landslide. After the Van earthquake, we hosted 1 75,000 victims in 35 container cities. On the first anniversary of the earthquake, we handed over more than 17,000 permanent dwellings to the rightful owners. In particular, we have allowed refugees who have fled the environment of war and chaos in neighbouring countries to live in good health through the temporary shelters that we have established in our country or across the border. In 2012 and 2013, we became the third largest humanitarian nation in the world. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers say I congratulate you once again on the fine work done by these exceptional institutions of our state, asking that the 2015 budget be a blessing to our government and our nation on its way to new Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0133par0314	Thank you, Mr. Nupınar.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0134par0315	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0133par0316	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0134par0317	Mr. President, right now the Turkish daily Türksolu is not being sent from the post offices and is not being distributed. At the same time, Cumhuriyet daily, The Speaker, Yurt daily, Millet daily, Yeniçağ, Zaman, Today's newspaper, Samanyol TV, Today's TV, People TV, National Canal Presidency building, can't enter the Prime Minister's building, can't enter the Justice Ministry building, can't enter the Interior Ministry building, can't enter the Foreign Office. In this regard, public -- this is censorship against the press, it's a coup -- the citizen's right to information and learning is restricted. My request from my Deputy Prime Minister is: Will these bans continue, or will they remove these bans on the right of public knowledge and knowledge? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0135par0319	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0136par0320	Thank you. Now, the first word on behalf of the government belongs to Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0325	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and your people, our beloved nation. I hereby wish that the 2015 budget talks would be successful, and that the budget that has been prepared would be good for our country, for our nation, for our institutions and for our institutions. At the beginning of my speech, I want to thank the members of the Plan and Budget Commission, the experts, all of our MPs, who have contributed to the development of our budget with their opinions, criticisms, warnings, warnings. I believe that the 2015 budget will allow Turkey, which has been growing steadily since the end of 2002, to become a more prosperous and prosperous country. Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the budgets of my Ministry's Editor-in-Chief on Press and Information and Radio and Television Oversight. First, I'd like to thank all of our MPs for their opinions, suggestions, and criticism. I know that any criticism is also a kind of contribution. Taking advantage of the opposition is not a lack of power, but a gain; it is possible to serve our country not only as a power but also as a constructive opposition. That's why I consider every opinion here to be a manifestation of service to the country. Respected speakers spoke in general about freedom of the press. In fact, political-media, power-media, capital-media relations are a troubled area all over the world. It is a great necessity for us to establish this relationship in a healthy way, for democracy to gain power. However, turning spotlights on politics alone is not enough to just hold mirrors to power; it is also necessary to put the media on the table, analyze the media's situation, and explore the opposition-media relationship. Instead of bringing criticism to opposition parties and lawmakers today... because power is often accused of this, but if we're talking about a media-impressive relationship, I'd like to do a bit of media criticism because I believe in the necessity of doing a media analysis. The media tool itself is not part of democracy. The mission of the media or the media is about its role, meaning, and complete democracy. There are media in non-democratic countries, or in times of coup, the media can play an antidemocratic role. Technological developments have created a stunning change in media space. So, has the mentality and understanding improved, how much has it changed? In the past, politics was made with the parameters of the Cold War; politics in the shadow of weapons, ideological polarizations, guardianial understanding lost great confidence and did not confirm it on its feet. The political institution has traveled considerable distances in its final term, but the media continues to act on the same parameters. The media, which headlined in the shadow of the guns, applauding the coups and guardians' insights, positioned itself in such a position as the bulletin of the February 27th, 12th, 28 February regimes, could not escape that appearance on April 27th or on December 17th. The media understanding of the government, which made all the headlines of war, declared mobilisation against elected authorities, saw the original function of creating government and destroying government, did not back down from preaching democracy as democracy was undermining it. Those who played the part of the press in the postmodern coups, who personally confessed and apologized in the books they wrote. The understanding that confused publishing with political engineering was mistaken for the country's destiny. Media workers' oaths, false news, reputation assassinations took place in the media's custody, and sometimes in accomplices. Are you aware of the danger, the headlines of the young officers, the disturbing headlines, the headlines of the 411 hand has been raised to chaos, the headlines of the press, the headlines of the press, all of which have been a black stain on the history of the press. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, freedom of the press can only mean something with press ethics. Freedom of the press doesn't develop in an environment where media morality is defiant. See, Mr. Oktay has been President of the Sour Press Council for a long time, and the Press Council has issued some mottos called Press Principles. What's all this? Let me read some: journalism, which is a public duty, cannot be used to specific purposes or interests that are immoral. 2) There is no room for expressions that humiliate, humiliate, or defame individuals and organizations beyond the limits of criticism. 3) Private lives are not subject to publication except in situations of public interest. 4) Reports that are available in journalism cannot be published without investigation or without certainty of its accuracy. 5) Information given under the condition that it stays hidden cannot be published unless it requires serious public interest. 6) No one can be declared guilty unless convicted by a verdict of judgment. 7) The criminal acts of the law cannot be attributed to anyone unless there are reasonable reasons to believe that they are real. 8) The journalist refrains from performing his duties in methods and attitudes that might undermine the dignity of his title. I wonder how well these principles are observed. Isn't it just that in the press, the hangings, the executions, the personality assassinations? It is the moral obligation of the press to protect personal rights and freedoms, to protect personal honor and dignity, to protect social benefits and national interests. If you're putting these under the table every day, and by freedom, you mean to be able to swear more, to execute more without trial, to assassinate more people, it's not freedom of the press. In order to make sense of what number of freedoms there are in the press, the two must walk together. If the media becomes part of psychological operations, perception operations, political engineering, there can be no mention of a press that is the main element of democracy. The media can't replace law, judgment or execution, nor can they master these institutions. Everyone has to play a democratic role in their own place. I'm being very clear that we've been able to fight the headlines. We're not afraid of the media's thesis, and we don't pay attention to the media's lies. We don't have a problem shutting anyone up, obviously. Today, open up, how many newspapers are called allies, how many are the newspapers that beat the government to the ground every day?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0138par0343	We haven't forgotten about the Conqueror.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0344	Why do media barons who get up and work for tens of thousands of pounds of salary, why don't they ever bring up the issues of the press workers who work off the books and put them on the door? They've had corners for years, gentlemen, and they're working on huge salaries, and there's a whole lot of shit going on because they've gone from one newspaper to another. There are serious problems in the press today. Unregistered employees, 500 liras, thousand liras, people who don't work for 2,000 liras, people who are put to the door without a union... look, photojournalists, cameramen, what rights do they have? It's not so easy for our friends to do that after a certain age, just like football players. There are some really serious issues in the press, but other tabloid news, they're the ones that are being brought up as part of greater press freedom.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0139par0347	Conqueror solves, say hello Fatih.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0140par0348	Mr. President, would you be so kind as to warn me?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0349	So I'm going to come up with something about these press workers. How real is it that people who can't move a single pencil against the interests of their bosses, against capital, give speeches about freedom of the press? Can you put a single sentence on TV in the news about media bosses? I just said, this is a troubled area, which needs to be defined correctly and to really guarantee the rights to journalism.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0141par0351	Who says hello Fatih, Mr. Akdoğan, that this man should not speak, that this man should not come out?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0352	Dear friends, the media should not be a spokesman for power, nor a spokesman for opposition, but a spokesman for the nation and the truth alone. There can't be a democratic press understanding of how to get up every morning and vomit poison into the government and start a war. There's only one side to the media, and that's the people. The media is for freedom, for right, for law, for justice, for democracy, and should be. In charge of publishing is the main character of the press. Unfortunately, media is being used again today in international perception operations that threaten Turkey's national interests, unity and integrity, national security. It is not only the power's duty to consider the interests, the interests, the interests of his own country. Critics of the EC PARTY today should consider what has happened to the media in the past tense. All we do today is self-defense, stand up and defend ourselves, or criticize injustices. ▪ Now that freedom of the press is dead, how did those who said so react to what happened to the press in ancient times? Journalists have been exiled, Turkey has been abandoned, tortured, remembered, targeted by dark organizations, victims of unsolved crime. The authorities could not control the media, but they did not break the promise of the media. For God's sake, is there anything in Turkey that can't be written or spoken today? Everyone writes everything and talks.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0142par0355	Is that how you see it?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0356	Dear lawmakers, ever since we came to power, we've made constitutional, legal and administrative changes to strengthen freedom of the press, to improve the working conditions of members of the press-employee. Some of the steps we've taken to ensure that the right to information is granted constitutional guarantees, to be narrowed down in press crimes, to protect news sources, to limit sanctions, to strengthen local media, to establish plurality in representation, to make arrangements for freedom of the press in the Criminal Code, to expand broadcasting in different languages, to enable journalists to use a service-marked passport to go abroad, to make changes in favour of journalists in favour of the Press Card Convention, to be able to publish a public declaration in the newspapers of minorities. I don't want to talk too much about institutions here because I'm running out of time. So I'd like to give you a brief answer to the issues brought up. This matter was discussed about the Freedom House. Of course, this report is a one-sided report with incomplete information, not objective, but extremely uncertain sources. There's been a special sensitivity not to mention positive developments. Another issue: I believe a statement has been made about our Minister of Transport, and we can act against the Court, and manage it. Like the Court and the Ministry have denied it. Our minister also said he would press charges. This matter of insulting Ataturk (Ataturk) was published on a channel... that came on the agenda when we were reviewing the Plan and Budget, and I heard it, and I strongly condemned it. It is unacceptable, it must be punished. They know our friends in the Plan and Budget. And then, RTÜK did the punishment for it. Now, the question of the two members of the Council elected from CHP's quota is that a television channel has filed a complaint against both the RTÜK and the Parliament because it is a crime for board members to reflect information about the board's work, to pass information to the press. There's an assessment on this. There's a very clear law that says that negotiations at the upper council meetings are confidential and that unless an openness is made, negotiations can't be explained unless a confidentiality decision is made... The members of the High Council and the Institution staff can't reveal information about the institution that has privacy and all the secrets of real and corporate people who provide media services and broadcast services, even if they're separated from their duties, they can't use them or others to their advantage... The members of the Supreme Council, who have gone against the grounds stated in this article, have been withdrawn from their duties. This issue is decided by the Supreme Assembly as a result of the evaluation of the resension or application to be made, and is reported to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for its purposes. Now, there's a clear violation of the law here, and there's a complaint against that. There's no effort here for CHP to be reduced from membership, friends. He transferred it to the Commission, RTÜK. Otherwise, they need to be dismissed by law. He transferred it to the commission and asked the Commission to examine it. This isn't an investigation. I mean, there's no malicious effort here. Here, as I said, a complaint has been made...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0143par0365	What's the secret, Mr. Secretary? What's the secret in RTÜK?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0366	...the painting wasn't run, it was given to the Commission; it wasn't an investigation, it was an investigation. Dear lawmakers, we have no problem taking down members of the CHP, members of the CHP, elected members of the CHP quota, nor will we make such an effort.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0143par0367	No, you said "sir," I was curious.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0368	If there is such a violation of the law and if it falls, the names of the CHP will be chosen again. It's not an effort, it's not a search, but if someone wants to turn it into a political show, if they want to use it for another purpose, it's not right, that's what we're saying. We're not doing anything else here.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0144par0369	You don't mean well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0370	On the other hand, TRT broadcasts. Mr. Erdogan's 41 events were reported or programmed during his presidential candidacy, Mr. Ihsanoğlu's 47th. When the other presidents were added, Mr. Erdogan was 41 of the other candidates and 80 of the supporting presidents. That's why... but one talks little, has nothing to say, it's short-lived, it's something else, but that's how long it's been. There's not a lot of measurements here from the Anadolu Agency, but the talks of the parties in Parliament are being measured as to how much the agency has published their work. Here, in 2013, I distribute to parties as follows: CHP 1.586, MHP 908, AK PARTY 892, BDP 639. January 1st to November 30th --2014/te -- CHP 1,352, MHP 692, AK PARTI 645, HDP 435. This is, of course, the activities of parties in parliament and the publication of the Anadolu Agency. Of course, if you look at government actions, there's all the ministries there, and the numbers could go up. I'm speaking from the Clave's point of view. In other words, during the presidential election, a total of 24 evaluation reports were filed in five different channels of TRT. As a result of the findings in these reports, the YSK fined the TRT News channel once, warning the TRT Turkish channel once, and sentences it to stop broadcasting six times. A total of 25 programmes have been suspended. I mean, RTÜK has all these reports, whether it's TRT or not, he's given them to anyone. And the SEC already appreciates the punishment. Beyond that, an issue was brought up about this film, "Pianist." This isn't about the convenience of the movie. You know, there are Smart Signs; the literature, which is a symbol of ▪+18, needs to be made after a certain hour. There was a punishment here for making that mark earlier. The other thing is about these contracts. You know, the court's process is still under way, and the prosecution's investigation is still under way. After this is completed, this matter will be reconsidered. Again, a series of articles about Deniz Gezmiş is being briefed on a television program, and I believe, has been transferred and given an assessment of the incentive to buy a newspaper. It's not because he went undercover, it's because other names have passed, but because there's a secret ad, ad, a newspaper. It's because something's been done and so on and so forth. In other words, Mr Murat Karakaya, Editor-in-Chief of Media and Information. We went for a change here. This is a friend of ours, a dear and hardworking friend, who has been brought to the Ministry of Prime Ministerial Affairs. Our friend, the Public Diplomacy Coordinator, was made General Manager. Murat Bey and I met long before this change of mission, but he had projects that were going on. We're doing a workshop at Erzurum, the press player -- the press workers' issue, I just said, and I'll be back in a little while -- had to go there. Then there was an international event in Cyprus, Northern Cyprus, which I thought would be more appropriate for him to go to because he started it. Let's complete these, and then we'll make the change. We said, "We'll make the change." And after we got back, the change was made. I was supposed to attend that meeting. The day before, Mr. Arinc was there because of the ceremonies in Northern Cyprus. In order for there to be no two Deputy Prime Ministers on the same day, since it had already been involved in these matters, I asked whether you would join me in my place. He joined in my place, and so did our General Manager. Other than that, this has nothing to do with what's being said. The other thing is, let's get a saddle from these meetings, from these meetings, so there's a lot of work that can be done together. One of them is the Press Law. The Press Act is not being enforced. I mentioned non-registered, that in accordance with the Yellow Press Act and the Press Act, the press workers are being run in a different way, instead of being employed, and there are loss of rights here. We're doing three workshops to see how we can make this more active. We did two of them. I've instructed the General Manager, listen to Oktay Bey, he's already had his thoughts about this and let's put him to work. We're going to make the last run in the month. I'm asking our press-released MPs to contribute so that they can participate. Let's all make a joint arrangement to protect the rights of real press workers. Second of all, it's the YSK punishments, here, it's being talked about. Some say, "Why doesn't RTÜK punish you?" Some say, "He has punished you a lot." During these election times, I personally don't think it's right to have special television channels -- here, this much has been published -- to be punished over and over again. There are criteria for public broadcasting here -- equality, justice, etcetera -- but I don't think it's right that there's so much interference in the private sector here. In this regard, if you say, "Let's get rid of the televisions." There can be a joint study here -- if it's the Constitution, if it's the Constitution -- the laws can be changed. Another thing is, there's an arrangement for the Internet law, it's waiting in the General Assembly. I think we can work together on that, too.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0145par0382	Now, Mr. Secretary, your time is up, how much should I add?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0383	I'll take five minutes from our other ministers.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0145par0384	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0137par0385	I'm finishing up, though, in a minute or two... One last sentence -- let me not take the time of our other ministers -- said a friend of ours, "Is the government a bird?" Now, friends, the government is not a bird, but it's not a sheep. We don't let any of our citizens, one of our citizens, or any of any of the other groups get run over here. No matter what it's called, no matter who the victim is. So, whatever needs to be done about public order and security will be done within democracy and law, without backing down. Besides, there's no game of steel sticks, so a lot of people have lost their lives. If it's about life, people losing their lives, I think it's about being more serious here. The punishment for this Molotov is higher, someone should go and use a bomb? They're going to use bombs. There's a lot of talk and stuff, and I've been hearing it a lot lately. Now, if it's a joke, it's not a joke; if it's an incentive or a threat, it's wrong, and we don't allow that kind of threat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, well, there's a lot to be said for that. I'd like to thank all of our MPs for their reviews, opinions, suggestions. I wish our 2015 budget was good for our country, for our nation. I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0146par0392	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0147par0393	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0146par0394	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0147par0395	Mr. Akdoğan has exaggerated our criticism of the security package, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0146par0396	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0148par0398	They're threatening him. He accused him, and he'll answer him.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0146par0399	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0149par0402	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, guys, there's been a lot of painful events in this country for 30 years, but recently there's been a lot of painful events in travel events, gas capsules exploded in people's heads, flares knocked over. In the events of October 6-7, 36 of our people -- one by one -- were killed by the police, the gendarmes, the rangers, the militia and... Look, the government's job is to run the law; it's to take it with its police, its government, its judgment, and it's to do it. If he didn't do anything for 36 people, the government has the right to criticize the opposition here. Yes, with the security package you brought in, you want martial law, state-of-the-art clearances. This is a constitutional decree; it requires a constitutional amendment. When there's nothing in the country, while we're in negotiations for peace, you want to bring war in this country. The President is giving a speech today, in his speech at TOBB, saying: "We know that the parallel has committed unsolved murders." If the government knows, you will bring them to trial if the unsolved murders are known. Who committed the unsolved murders?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0150par0407	Why are you defending the parallel? Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0149par0408	Who killed who? You have an extraction mission. Look, here, in the smallest criticism of the government, you threaten the opposition, we are not sheep... are you white wolves, Mr. Akdoğan, white wolves? You want to be a white wolf? The peace process doesn't work that way.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0151par0409	It never works like that!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0149par0410	You need to use your language more carefully in the process of resolving it. I'm being very clear, you're not sheep... your policies are white wolf politics. It's dangerous. This security package, this package of judgment, this suspicious citizen, four years of punishment for a slingshot, the gas bomb, TOMA; then you come and threaten it?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0152par0412	You tell those who burn them, tell those who burn them.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0149par0413	We're not threatening, we're speaking the truth here: are you a bird? You're afraid of the slingshot.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0153par0415	You'd be good for this country if you did as much as you could!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0154par0416	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0155par0417	That's enough, it's done, it's not done. There's no such thing!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0154par0418	Mr. President, but...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0155par0419	No, no, that's not an answer. 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING [[Continue]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 "I") "Turkish language" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013 Now, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Babacan, twenty-nine minutes; one minute from you and one minute from Mr. Survivor. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0156par0470	Mr. President, I'd like to start by respectfully greeting you on the basis of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and 2013 Central Management Computation Bill Talks. In my speech, first, after sharing some brief information about the G20 presidency, which Turkey has taken over, I would like to share with you the issues of the world economy and the recent economics of Turkey and our expectations for the coming term. On December 1st, Turkey took over the term president of the G20 platform, and we came here elected, in agreement with all countries. The G20 platform consists of two thirds of the world's population, 75 per cent of the world's trade, and 85 per cent of the world's world economy's gross domestic product. It's a platform with weight, representation, and political legitimacy in its decisions. Really, for Turkey, it's a major opportunity in the world economy to have a say in many issues about world financial markets, to set the agenda and to give direction. We've been inside the troika structure for a year; we've worked with the president of the previous term and the next president, and we've officially taken over. Yesterday and today, for the first time, the undersecretaries and the vice presidents of the central bank met in Istanbul, where meetings are still going on, and the issues 20 countries are talking about the world are now being discussed here, in Turkey, in Istanbul. We have 11 important agendas: that balanced growth can be achieved worldwide, our first agenda -- infrastructure investments, financial arrangements, international financial architecture, international tax issues, energy issues, international trade, employment, climate change financing, development, corruption -- is 11 key agendas of G20. While we're handling all these agendas, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on containment. What I mean here is that we want to move the problems of non-G20, the developing, low-income countries to the G20 table, and we want the decisions made there to be good decisions for the whole world, not just for the countries represented there. Again, we will give special attention to the KOBI. In developing countries as well as developed countries, SMEs are the basis of employment. About 60 per cent of the world's employment is made up of SMEs, such as 75 per cent in Turkey, and especially in developing countries, the share of SMEs is very, very large. Again, when we say entrepreneurial, innovation, research development, the first thing that comes to mind is the KOBI. And that's what we're going to ask the question of what we're doing under every 11 agendas, and we've already given international agencies assignments. We want to conduct the COBI in a more important way on the world's agenda. We will also launch a global SME forum in Turkey as part of our agreement with the International Chamber of Commerce, and not only will it be in our presidency, but in the future, an international voice of the KOBIs will now be reflected on international platforms. Again, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on implementation in our term presidency. Promises are made, programs are announced, commitments are made, but do they really apply? We're setting up a mechanism for monitoring countries' commitments to reform. We're creating a mechanism that is clearly monitored online and which country keeps its commitment to reform, which reforms are broken, which will follow. Again, we will insist on the firm implementation of the agreed financial arrangements. We also have a special emphasis on investments. In particular, we think that the well-made, objectively prioritized infrastructure investments are important for both developing and improved economies, and we want them to develop strategies from every country in terms of infrastructure investments, and we believe that positive steps towards investments without disrupting the debt stock, without disturbing the financial structure of the countries will also contribute to the growth of the world's economy. The finance ministers and the head of the central bank are already meeting four or five times a year under G20. And once a year, as traditionally, foreign trade ministers and labour ministers -- from 20 countries -- are united. This is the first time we've decided to have a G20 energy ministers meeting. We'd like to hold a meeting of agriculture ministers again. We've decided to hold a meeting of tourism ministers, and we'd like to gather our foreign ministers again. With conferences, seminars, between 60 and 70 events a year, Turkey will be hosted on this occasion and the audience representing 85 per cent of the world's economy will talk about world issues here in Turkey. It's a really important responsibility, and it's a responsibility that we have to be as careful as it is important. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been through a difficult time in the global economy, and these challenges have not yet been overcome. But the worst is probably behind us now. From now on, we're looking forward to a gradual recovery. This recovery will be a recovery from country to country with a different speed. Some countries will recover faster, some countries will recover much slower. Unfortunately, our biggest trade partner, the European Union, where direct capital has entered us so far, is the weakest and most fragile recovery of all. While we have a large economy with such strong trade and investment ties, financial ties, we will continue to carry out our economic policies in a way that is least affected by the negatives in Europe because of our dependence on that economy. As for developing countries, I'm afraid the situation in developing countries is not very pleasant. We've entered a process in which growth rates have been lower for the next ten years. As of today, the growth rate in China will no longer be 9 to 10 percent, but in the range of 7 to 8 percent, for the next year or two. But the average for the next decade is estimated to be less than 6 per cent of China's growth, many international organisations. But even so, when we compare developing countries to the 1990 Asian crisis, we see that their structures are much stronger. The developing countries now have much stronger public finances, low debt reserves, low budget deficits. Again, developing countries have a much stronger, higher reserve of banking systems than they used to. The more flexible courtship is now implementing many developing countries and economic governances are people who experience crisis. So even though we say that the growth performance of developing countries over the next ten years will be lower than the previous decade, the average growth rate of developing countries will still be far above the developed world, so the share of developing countries will continue to increase from the world's economy. When you say growth, no doubt it's the numerical dimensions of growth that matter. Which we do at the G20 table and on other international platforms. Yes, it's important what growth is in numbers, but the quality of growth is also very, very important. Is this growth a sustainable growth or not? Today, perhaps in the short term, countries can take some steps for higher growth, some populist trends, but this can steal from the growth of later years, even the consequences that will make those countries more difficult. Here, we have to be very, very careful with this. It's very important that growth is financially sustainable, that growth is sustainable in terms of social policy, that growth is sustainable in terms of environmental policy again. Visionary, horizon-owning, long-term governments are creating economic policies based on sustainability in the world. But in the next election, which has a life of choice, we look at governments that have panicked and are drawn into error. But no matter how we look at it, for developing countries, for developing countries, for developing countries, the countries that provide trust within their own country are succeeding, the countries that are failing. No matter how much free money they print, no matter how much they increase public spending, they see that it doesn't come back to them as growth and employment. However, countries that have secured confidence continue to provide and strengthen jobs, including financial policy, monetary policy, other policy areas. That's where I want to move on to the Turkish economy. Really, if the Turkish economy has achieved a globally delivered success over the past 12 years, the main factor behind this is the security environment in our country. Once confidence is established, it becomes easier to implement markets, business, economic policy after citizen believes. It's like a businessman with a reputation in the market, a businesswoman with no reputation, but who does as much as he does with his money. So, Turkey, thankfully, has now become a country that is trusted with its promises, whose programs are believed in. We reformed fundamental areas in the period before the crisis came. Look at the countries where the crisis hits the most -- what's the main problem area: budget deficit, banking, social security, health and other social problems related to it. Turkey, on the other hand, completed banking reform before this crisis came, reduced the budget deficit to minimal levels, Turkey reformed social security, has now achieved a world-famous, world-appreciated reform in health. Today, our former Minister of Health teaches health ministers in many countries around the world, training and training health officials from other countries at Harvard University, one of the world's most famous universities. Thus, Turkey's timely steps and measures in these matters have really protected Turkey from the turbulence of this crisis - both socially and economically and at the same time, and we have not had much difficulty in finance. Our banks are up and running. Our budget deficit is 1.4 per cent this year compared to the national income; the budget we are talking about is 1.1 per cent of the budget's budget deficit; the target we set for 2017 is 0.3 per cent. We've got a solid position here that's going to the equivalent budget almost now. On the one hand, the sound banking system, the sound budget structure, has protected Turkey significantly from any negative impacts from outside and inside, and hopefully it will continue to protect it from now on. Turkey also carried out major political reforms in the European Union process. Compared to 2002, the quality of our democracy has now increased. As soon as we compared the basic rights with 2002, we got to a better point. The process of democratisation of political stability has become extremely important, and that determination will continue in the future. We'll continue to raise the economy together with democracy. The policies we applied during the crisis and after the crisis have also become very, very important. Look, at the deepest moment of the crisis, the employment measures we announced in 2009, the financial measures we've explained have come to a very rapid conclusion. Two years in a row in 2010 and 2011, Turkey's economy grew by 9 per cent, another 9 per cent. From the deepest period of that crisis to this day, total employment in Turkey has increased by 5,72,000 people. Turkey is now one of the countries that have increased its employment by a percentage in developing countries or developed countries. On the other hand, our participation in the labor force is increasing and increasing rapidly. There's been a significant increase in our women's participation in the labor force. So we're looking at, once, when we look at the total stockpile, when we look at the total amount of employees, there was a 30 percent turnout rate in women and 70 percent in men. We're looking at the last three years, and we're seeing 46 percent of those new to the workforce in the last three years are women, 54 percent are men. And especially college graduates have a very, very high turnout. So, while we're experiencing the rise in participation in this labour force, we're also experiencing increased employment, and our unemployment rate may not be dropping at the rate we want, but the new National Business Strategy is really important. This was announced as an YPK decision, and there is a widespread action plan for the next three or four years. Hopefully, when we take the steps in this action plan, especially when we demonstrate success in combating rigor in our labor market, we believe that our unemployment rate will go to lower levels. Mr. President, when we look at the size of Turkey's economy, we have a total domestic product raised from $230 billion to $822 billion. There's no doubt that the courtship is effective here. Our prized speakers have spoken about the economic impact, and they're right here, but when we look at our national revenues, completely purged of the impact of the courtship and calculated by the market for purchasing power, we see that in 2002, we went from $8,667 to $18,809 in 2013. Look, it's about $35,000 in Japan, the average of the European Union is there again. We are now a country that has reached half the prosperity of Japan, half the prosperity of the European Union. Look, our national income per capita in 2002 was 36 percent of the European average, according to the share of purchasing power. According to the latest TÜİK data released yesterday, it reached 53 percent, so we closed the gap with the developed countries during that time. Oh, are we a developed country? No. If we're looking at numbers comparing us to developed countries, that's not a very accurate comparison. But what did we do? According to World Bank calculations, we've moved from the lower middle income group to the upper middle income group, and according to World Bank calculations, we've only got $2,000 left in the high income group. Hopefully in a few years, Turkey will have officially entered a high income group in the World Bank classification. Again, according to the World Bank's latest report, the middle population, calculated by world standards, has grown twice as high in the middle-class Turkey. This certainly has a positive impact on income distribution, and our results in fighting poverty are positive again. According to the OECD (OECD) report, Turkey has dropped its Gini coefficient at the fastest in all OECD countries. Oh, we're not the country with the lowest Gini coefficient, so we're not the OECD country where income distribution is the most accurate, but we're the number one country at the rate of revenue distribution, in terms of effort and the success we've come up with, in terms of the decline of this indicator, at the rate of recovery. Again, when we look, thank God there's no less than a dollar income left in our country. A billion of the world's seven billion people still live on less than a dollar, and during this crisis, the number grew, 900-something, and now it's up to over 1 billion again. $2 -- we're looking at twice that -- income; we're out of that kind of population. Our population of $4.3 dropped from 30 per cent to 2.06 per cent. In any case, in the last 12 years, Turkey is a country where poverty has decreased, but it has not been reset, the revenue distribution has improved, but still needs to be restored. So, as we look at it, the continuation of these achievements in the coming period is very, very important. What are we supposed to do, what kind of economic policy are we supposed to follow so Turkey can continue with these achievements? Before we get to that, Turkey had a dimension of international appearance -- which I particularly want to stress -- in 2002, Turkey was on the list of countries receiving help. Fortunately, Turkey is now on its list of aiding countries and a rising donor country. Only last year's foreign aid increased to $3.3 billion, and we became third in humanitarian aid in the world. We're number 3 in number 3 in humanitarian aid. You'll say we're the world's 16th largest economy, but we're the 3rd in humanitarian aid. It's the natural nature of our culture. What we say is that the neighbor is hungry, and he is not one of us who sleeps full. But the concept of neighborhood has changed in the world. What does "neighbor" mean? The person you know, the person you know, the person you understand. Now, if there are thousands of miles from Turkey, Myanmar, Indonesia, Philippines, let's not go too far from here, North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, if people are suffering, if they need help, if we know it, then responsibility begins, right now. It's our duty to help while we know, while we're aware. Of course, it's within our means. But I also believe that when intent is good and you look at it with a positive perspective, thank God our resources are also blessed and we are able to do it easily. Look, 1.7 million Syrians are now in Turkey. In a moment, Deputy Prime Minister Numan will be taking this matter into his own hands, so I don't want to get in here too much, but the outside help is clear. Is anything wrong with our economy, thank God? No. 1.7 million people came and lived in Turkey. Once upon a time, you know, there was population planning, but our population was growing, so let's be careful. There was a special effort not to increase the population of Turkey. Now, 1.7 million people are coming in and we're moving on. So, hopefully, after we've kept our intentions intact and applied the right policies, Turkey's path is clear, it's clear. Mr. President, what are the high-profile lawmakers going to do next semester? One: lower inflation. Our inflation is high. Depending on this, when you add a risk premium on inflation in market interest, it's high, and we expect market interest to drop in parallel with the decline in inflation, as well as in the coming period. This is the number one target we've announced in the Midterm Program. Secondly, we're running out of Cari. It's an important area of vulnerability for Turkey. Cari, being open means being dependent on external resources. We need to finance that current deficit as much as we can. We're either going to finance this as a direct capital intake or we're going to be in debt. The public's debt stock is now, thank God, down to minimum levels. We didn't reset our external debt, we went to plus. In external balance, thank God, we're in foreign debt plus, but our private sector's external debt is increasing. So we have to reduce our current deficit, and we have to reduce our outside financing dependency. This is the second major target of the next term. What's our third important goal? Increase our potential growth through structural reforms. Public finance, monetary policies, all of this is important, but Turkey can only sit on a higher growth path, and only through structural reforms. What did we do about it? Last year, we announced our five-year development plan, and this year we created the action plans for 25 of our priority transformation programs. The Prime Minister has announced nine of these 25 action plans with a press conference. Hopefully, in two parties this month, 8 plus 8, he'll explain the other actions in two groups. From the beginning it was 1,250, now there were 1,350 actions as a result of our work on the Economic Co-ordination Board. And I'm claiming that none of the G20 countries have such a ambitious and detailed structural reform agenda. No government can find the courage to reveal such 1,350 actions, the organization responsible for them, and the date before them, and says, "Why should I tie myself up?" But we believe that the more predictable we are, the more clear we are going to be, the more clear we are going to be, the more predictable we are going to be if we share our plans with the public, with our people, with the business world. In the country where there's predictability, there's trust, there's growth, there's employment. So this area of structural reform is going to be very, very important to us, and it's going to be the determinator of the next period. 25 areas... I hope it doesn't bore me to read 25 areas, but since it's important, I'll say the only topics here: increasing efficiency in production, reducing dependence on imports, improving domestic savings and preventing waste, developing technology in terms of international financial capital, the rationalization of public spending, improving the quality of public revenues, improving the business and investment environment, activating the business power market, improving statistical information infrastructure, improving commercialisation in primary technology areas, improving technology, developing technology in terms of public accession, developing energy based on domestic resources, improving the quality of public revenues, improving the quality of public revenues, improving the development of business and investment markets, and strengthening the capacity of the business power of the business power economy, and improving the development of the development of statistical information infrastructure, improving, improving commercialisation in the development of public sectors, developing technology, developing technology, developing technology in the development of healthcare, and development of healthcare, and development of healthcare, and development of healthcare, and development of healthcare, and development of healthcare, and development of health. 25 titles, a total of 1,350 concrete actions under them, who will do it, and when will this be completed at the latest... we have laid out our calendar by the end of 2018, and when we do, we will see how Turkey sits on a higher growth trend and how its rate of development increases. In the coming period, we believe that Turkey's economic indicators will improve and reach even better numbers. Let's hope that our growth will be higher in 2015 than in 2014, our inflation will be lower, our current deficit will be lower, so let's see from what angle, 2015 will be a better year than 2014. We've already put that on our schedules. And you can see it clearly, not just when we write and draw by independent assessment agencies and international institutions, market analysts. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey has become a truly important business centre with its reforms. Not just for our country, but for the region. Today we're looking at Turkish Airlines now flying to 108 countries. No other airline in the world flies to this many countries. Multinational companies such as Intel, Microsoft, Coca Cola have declared Istanbul the regional centre. These companies currently run their business in 70, 80, 90 countries from Istanbul. The World Bank's branch of the private sector opened its first centre outside the IFC, Washington, in Istanbul. He is now making loans to all Eastern Europe, Russia, North Africa, Middle East, Caucasus, Central Asia, Istanbul. The EBRD, the European Investment Bank, all opened regional offices in Istanbul over the past two or three years. Istanbul has become a city that finances not only Turkey, but the entire geography. Thank God this is all for our country, for our nation's progress to be honored. Finally, again, I'd like to make a brief mention of one of the speakers before me, and end my words, and this is our debt-taking agreements. The do-and-do model, you know, is a model under public-special partnership. And what's a public-private partnership? It means that the private sector and the public are building infrastructure investments within a spirit of partnership. Besides, as President of G20, we want this model to be used wider across the world in infrastructure investments. We put the World Bank in charge, where we started a very important study on standardization and standardized securities. What are we doing here? Here, under the Undersecretary of the Treasury, the commitments are a conditional obligation, not a guarantee, not a standard bail, but a conditional one. And there are many examples of that in the world. In fact, when it comes to the agenda, a very large press release from our Treasury Undersecretary has been given with all the examples of what the country is doing, how it works. And again, this is clearly written in the Public Debt Management Report, which our Treasury Undersecretary publishes once a month. So far, this has been done for three projects, and the total figure is not like $100 billion, but 5 billion, 278 million. It's published every month anyway. It's a conditional obligation. In the tenders for projects carried out by public enterprises with the do-and-run model, the draft contract between the company that won the tender and the management agreement is part of this tender document -- it's already written here. So there are provisions in the draft application agreements on projects, in case the facility is expected to be taken over at a time of dissolution by the relevant administration, about the ability to take over foreign financing, which has been used by the administration until the date of the dissolution. So there's no way you can get a commitment to a loan that will change the terms of the tender, which is unpredictably unpredicted and unfairly competitive. This was discussed, discussed in our Plan Budget Commission, and it happened again in the form of law from here. I wish our 2015 budget would be a blessing again, and I wish that our country, our Turkey, would be a means of reaching a far more prosperous time, with respect and love for all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0157par0509	Thank you, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0158par0510	Mr. President, Mr. Babacan has expressed incorrect issues regarding economic data, sharing it with the public. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you the right information.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0157par0511	But there's no such thing in the budget, so there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0158par0512	Yes, sir. What kind of...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0157par0513	No, now everyone's saying something. As a result...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0158par0514	No, he should say something... look, Mr. Babacan shared some data on the Turkish economy as Deputy Prime Minister, and unfortunately that data is not true. And as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0159par0515	I'll fix it then, Mr. President. That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0158par0516	...the accurate data we know...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0159par0517	Mr. Kaplan said 100 billion dollars. Is that true?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0160par0518	Here you go. I mean, that's not the way it works, but here we go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0161par0520	Okay, so who's gonna fix yours?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0160par0521	Anyway, now, before you get nervous, before you do, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0524	Mr. Barber, you'll get out, and if I say something wrong, you'll fix it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0161par0525	Yeah, it's all wrong. Which one do we fix?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0526	One, you said: you made a comparison with the OECD countries at the level of participation in the labor force, and you said we were in a very good place. That's not true. The average of OECD countries is 70 per cent of the average participation in the labour force. Turkey's turnout is less than 20 per cent, 51.2%. Based on the last five years, there is no increase in participation in the labor force, there is a decline. This one, this one didn't work. Two: You have stated that you have met your goals in the OVP. For example, the Moderate Programme 2014 third quarter goal is 2.9-3, which is 1.7. But you said otherwise, there's a growing improvement as a Gini coefficient. You said, "Mr. Deputy Prime Minister," he said. To tell you the truth: the average income per person of GAP in Turkey's GAP area is at $4,500 per person, at $24,000 in Turkey's Mara region. I don't know how you claim to have closed the gap, but Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Babacan has stated that we have reached a good point.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0163par0529	We've come to a good point.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0530	There's a five-story difference.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0164par0531	There was more, there was more.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0532	The percentage of income between a citizen living in Uruguay and a citizen living in Istanbul is 5 times different.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0165par0533	It used to be 10 times.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0534	I don't understand how you mean to turn it off.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0166par0535	It used to be more.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0162par0536	The third important thing: what the Prime Minister called the action plan was essentially to revisit his 2023 goals. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It was a revision, but you referred to it as an action plan. That wasn't true either. There was more, there wasn't enough time. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0167par0541	Now, normally, I'd have to give you a minute, you know, to give you two minutes because you weren't too tense. I mean, I also share it with the public that...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0542	Can I do something for 30 seconds?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0167par0543	No, you have one minute, I can give you one. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0546	Mr. President, first of all, I've made every single sentence very carefully in this conversation, as I have in everything. Every single sentence that I say is true, you can take it from the transcripts and compare it with all the data from all the documents that have been officially published, and all the numbers that I've said before are the figures that our relevant institutions, whether it's TİK, the Treasury Undersecretary, or the Central Bank, have officially explained at the time.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0169par0547	If Mr. Secretary had already told me how many numbers the TÜİK (TİK) has explained...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0548	So, we're making these statements on solid data.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0169par0549	Mr. Secretary, no data of the TİKİK is consistent.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0550	If you have something stronger, bring it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0169par0551	Rest assured, each minister has a different number. Look, I'll get you five or six TIC numbers.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0170par0552	From what I understand, now I'm...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0553	Look, I'll tell you what, I'm an institution that works with TİK Eurostat.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0169par0554	You know, you know the numbers of TÜİK. Which one is it, right?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0555	TÜİK is an independent organization, and it's an independent organization, just like the Central Bank, and some of us still don't know it. Plus, he works very closely with the Eurostat, very closely with the OECD. What is the standard of data collection and analysis of Eurostat (UTİK) in 28 countries does as well. THE data of the TÜİK is accurate and reliable data that have been registered worldwide. TÜİK already makes its own correction as soon as it sees a problem with its data. Look what he did in the last statement. How many times have we calculated growth by 0.1 wrong or incomplete? He said, he corrected it. He'll fix it himself.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0171par0556	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0168par0557	Therefore, there is no shortage of credit.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0172par0558	Minister, I've given you information on Marmaray and the Gap, correct it if it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0171par0559	Now, after I vote on that budget, you're out for a cup of tea. Mr. Zozani, I'm telling you, why don't you go out for a cup of tea, after I vote on the budget, for God's sake? It's a good thing we brought it so far.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0172par0560	Mr. Barber, I've given you an example of Marmaray, and the GAP. Correct it if it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0173par0561	Did he say anything about him, Mr. Secretary? Don't... 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING [[Continue]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 "I") "Turkish language" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0174par0608	Now, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor, please. You've got 29 minutes, so we split it fair and square. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0612	Mr. President, on behalf of me and our government, I salute you with my best regards. My respects to our High Council. Before we begin with my remarks, I would like to say from the very beginning that I have noted the constructive criticisms of opposition parties, of all three groups, of extraordinary, spectacularly beautiful talks, and that I will be a follower of the proposals brought up here. I also thank you to your high court, to your high council, for the fact that today's meeting has continued in such a good manner. I believe a friend of ours from the MHP made an offer on the legal change of an institution, and a friend of ours from the Republican People's Party made an offer on the risk management of AFAD. We watched them all carefully. If you continue to make concrete proposals, we will strive to benefit from them to the end. I would also like to point out that our institutions, both personally and personally, I believe, are open to any constructive proposals that belong to Mr. Ali and our other friends, under their leadership, under their administration, by all our lawmakers, whether it comes on behalf of their members, or on behalf of their groups. I'd like to point out that all your proposals are above our heads about any concrete project you're going to lay out. On this occasion, we were given talks about four of our main institutions regarding the budget of our Ministry, one of which is AFAD. It's about AFAD... you know, the AFAD was established in 2009 by a legal arrangement, and the AFAD has become an institution that, in this sense, has been created for the greater use of our national resources, and can easily say that AFAD has become a highly professionalized institution against natural, human-based or technological disasters. Again, in positive criticism, we want to draw attention to the steps that AFAD will have to take on risk management. Turkey's Disaster Response Plan, published in the Official Gazette on 3 January 2014, has provided all 28 service groups in the work conducted in the AFAD Co-ordination of AFAD in 2014, which has enabled the assessment of services within the 28 service groups of AFAD. Again, the topic that AFAD is particularly focused on is the role that AFAD has taken on refugees in this room and in many places. The AFAD, as you know, is the head of the first-level refugee problem that Turkey has faced with the civil war that has been going on in Syria for a long period of four years. In this sense, AFAD is one of our main institutions that hosts Syrian asylum seekers who have reached 1.7 million people. And in this framework, Turkey has opened its doors to all those who have fled the civil war in Syria, regardless of religion, language, ethnicity, and any sect, who have escaped the human tragedy in Syria, who will extend their hand and help them. For example, we're all aware of the developments in our Syrian Kurdish brothers who took refuge in Turkey because of the recent Kobani events that we've been following since the first second. My dear brothers, it was September 18th. In the evening hours, about 4,000 Kobanili fled from ISIS, and came to the border right next to it. We had our meeting that night. Our first choice was that the people from Kobani were met outside the border, their needs were seen there, but one day, on September 19th, we opened our border at around 12:50 p.m. at 19.m., because the danger of ISIS there was close to 5-6km. For seventy-two hours, more than 200,000 Kobanili came to Turkey. When we go abroad, we know that when we talk to foreign politicians, ministers, managers, I don't want to give the names of the countries, but we know how the countries where we meet a few thousand refugees complain about how they were burned! Turkey has accepted 200,000 asylum seekers in 72 hours and has been able to take them within Turkey's borders without bleeding their noses. This is a huge success, and in the following processes, Turkey -- there will be no new refugee waves, but it continues its work in preparation for such waves. Also, about -1 million 684 refugees in Turkey today -- about 1,7 million refugees are registered and the rest will be registered by the end of the year. At present, in our 22 camps in 10 counties, 220 thousand people are serving in camps run by AFAD. My dear brothers, my dear fellow lawmakers, as you know, the money Turkey has spent on aiding refugees since 2011 is 4.65 billion dollars according to UN computing methods. There are a number of contributions made by civil society. I regret to inform you that the contribution made by foreigners, elements outside Turkey, international organisations is only $265 million. Thus, as Mr. Ali has just expressed, Turkey is the third of the world in terms of humanitarian aid, nominal value, but is the first of the world in terms of the non-national distribution of humanitarian aid. So we can't be too proud of this work. I know it's a debt of gratitude to all of our fellow workers. Another important issue related to AFAD is the development of technical infrastructure. We can only share four of them with you as a name because of the lack of time, the service, which is being done. One of them, yes, our friends have expressed that Turkey is an earthquake country, God forbid, we don't even want to think about an Istanbul earthquake, but we're also trying to take the necessary measures related to the Istanbul earthquake, and we've also developed the infrastructure that can predict, the disaster management and decision support systems. So that's the first service in terms of infrastructure that's been thrown out in this sense. The second is the opening of logistical centers. 22 of the 27 logistic centers of the AFAD (AFAD) in 15 regions have been opened to the ministry, and five are waiting to be opened to the ministry. The third, the service, is to prepare Turkey for disaster, the third main issue in terms of technical infrastructure services -- risk management against risks. In this framework, under the Afete Ready Turkey Campaign, we continue our work on Afete Ready Family, Afete Ready Business, Afete Ready Youth and Afete Ready School campaigns. In addition, the fourth step towards the infrastructure that AFAD has done in this framework is that the strategic plan for 2013-2017 has been prepared. What I'm trying to say is that we can share any information you want with you in writing, without hiding it at all. But AFAD has to take strategic steps not only in the emergency aid department, but also in the preparation of the period before the risks were revealed. Dear lawmakers, our second institution -- again, it's been discussed, it's been discussed, there's been some important constructive criticism, and we've noted that -- it's our TİKA organization, the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency. The TİKA, which was established today to share the wins of the state of the Republic of Turkey, to improve their situation, with the end of the Cold War after 1990, became an institution that was modeled and modeled not only for developing countries, but also for us on any international platform. Despite such intense human dramas, especially in today's time of wars, famines, civil wars, conflicts, humanitarian aid has been done both as and as projects, through our economies, TİKA and other organizations. Just to keep that in mind, in 2003, $85m was made official development aid, while by Turkey, this increased to 3 billion 307 million U.S. dollars in 2013, as a result of the TİKA (TİKA) activities. Again, the level of millennium targets, which have emerged in ten years from one thousand to four thousand in a thousand, has increased from one thousand to two percent in ten years, due to the dissolution of formal development benefits to non-national product. In this framework, yes, Turkey has gained significant distances, with the contribution of TİKA (TİKA) to humanitarian aid. Again, countries in the category of the least developed countries are important among countries that TİKA (TİKA) has helped. In 2012, $337 million was helped by at least $386 million in less developed countries in 2013. From 2002 to 2014, the number of offices rose from 12 to 40, and the number of projects and activities increased from 2.241 to 13.263. So the TİKA, for sure, performs 1,800 projects a year in all parts of the world. Now, I've received notes from our friends, some criticism, or rather, some constructive warnings. For example, many parts of the Turkish world do not have activities. There have been criticisms. I don't want to read them and waste your time, but the services to the Uygur Turks, sir, the help to the Iraqi Turks, the projects to the Abyssinians, the Crimean Tatars, the Gagavuz -- they have one name at a time, I don't want to take your time -- and all the other studies of that world are here. I'd just like to share with you a program that I'll be attending in the coming period: on December 24th, hopefully, in the century of the death of Mr. Ismail of Kırgyazistan, we'll hold a conference at Manas University on unity. It's a lot of detail, but I want to point out the interest of TİKA. I'm telling the Dukha Turks at the extreme point of Mongolia next week because they want to -- they'll be given a special set of talks with Russia, and they'll be supported by TİKA to develop their reindeer projects. I can share with you all the many different things that we've come up with here -- our friends. From Orhun Abides to the monuments of Wise Tonyukuk, until the shrine of Sultan Alparslan, in Merv, was found and rebuilt, we know all the activities of Turkey on all sides, in the Balkans, in the Caucasus. In part, we joined not only with our friends from the AK PARTY, but also with our friends from our other political parties, our opposition parties. From now on, we will join together, and hopefully we will see the work done abroad through the TİKA and through our other organizations, and in the place that shows Turkey's reputation. In the same way, the restoration of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's father's home in the village of Kocacik, Macedonia, has been taken from both universities and local offices and institutions, which will provide us with all sorts of information, and, in accordance with their approval, the building has been tried to be repaired in the most appropriate way, to be repaired. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you the projects that TİKA (TİKA) has brought to Turkey and trained over 3,000 people besides these projects. TİKA is an important organisation of Turkey's cultural diplomacy. I would like to lay before you two examples, two examples, miles from each other, thousands of miles from each other, in terms of the richness of TİKA (TİKA) activity. One of them is the Thai Turkish Martyrship in Myanmar. As you know, during the First World War, nearly 4,000 Ottoman soldiers were captured in the Palestinian Front. These Ottoman soldiers and Ottoman officers, these highly trained officers, were unfortunately sent to work camps in India, and then to Myanmar, where most of them were destroyed, where they lost their lives. Among these were 226 of our martyrs, Thayet Turkish martyrdom, all the way to Myanmar, where people today can barely reach humanitarian aid, where they were found and rebuilt in March 2014. Again, in the same way, one of them was in the far east of Algeria, one in the west -- the famous Algerian Hassan Pasha Mosque -- called Goatova Mosque -- which we visited with our President recently -- used as a church for a hundred and thirty years during the French occupation. That mosque has an extremely difficult restoration study. We've put those restoration studies at a certain point today. Hopefully we'll get it done as soon as possible, and we'll go back to the opening of this mosque with a group of members of our Parliament. Likewise, in talks on the restoration activities of this mosque, Algerian officials, particularly the President of Algeria, have expressed that the Arabic name of the Ottomans was open to all kinds of co-operation with the town's reconstruction in our Turkish language, as well as with the town's town's development. My dear brothers, dear fellow lawmakers, I would also like to point out that TİZA had done 80 school constructions and repairs in 2013, 102 school equipment and corrections in Gaza, and 1,000 dwellings in Gaza, medical aid and medical support for many African countries related to the Ebola epidemic, and that TİKA Knorr had earned the heart of Somalia by building hospitals, schools, mosques and mosques in a place like Somalia, where no one had the courage to go. Also, in Africa, there are projects by TİKA (TİKA) as part of people's clean and healthy drinking water. Only between 2002 and 2013 TİKA opened 916 water wells in Africa, and these wells are constantly repaired. I'm not going to go through all this. TİKA All of these studies are an institution that is finally widely accepted by the international community as Turkey's pupil organization, and we will all be proud. United Nations organisations, such as UNDP, FAO and UNESCO, the Economic Co-operation and Development Agency -- the OECD, the Islamic Co-operation Agency and the Islamic Development Bank -- are happy to agree to co-operate with international institutions, development agencies, both under project management and other tasks, and are enjoying a great deal of pleasure. I would also like to express with pride that the model of Turkey Development Aids, introduced through TİKA, is an international model. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the OHR, which we will consider third, our presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad. It was founded in 2010, and it is our organization that serves to improve Turkey's relations with its relatives abroad and relatives abroad, to ease the problems of our relatives and relatives abroad. Citizenship rights, thematic studies and the work of the Turkish abroad for the civil society are the ones that we can only say in the main topics of the activities of TİKA (TİKA). It is also part of the fields of TİKA (TİKA) where we are seriously reminded of the civil rights of our citizens, the application of blue cards, and the support of our citizens in political integration studies, as well as our activities in Germany and Austria. Again, it's been expressed, in youth agencies... you know, there are families of Turkish origin in the youth departments where the children were taken from them by force. The TİKA, which these families suffered, provided guidance and advice services against the challenges they experienced, trained 400 jurisprudences in Turkey to help raise young lawyers to deal with the problems of our families, to help our citizens from abroad. I would also like to highlight issues such as the Foreign Youth Leaders Program, Youth Bridges Programme, Foreign Citizens Research Support Funds, scholarships. Again, I would like to refer to our NGOs abroad as an important study of the development aid and work given to the Turkish-based NGOs. One of the important things that our foreign Turkish presidency has done and will continue to do at certain intervals is the Research of Values of the President of the Foreign Turks. I mean, at what point, in terms of values, are our people abroad from Turkey changing? In what situation are they in both integration and protecting their own culture, they are being identified. In addition, another important service that we need to take very seriously over the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad and honor is the issue of Turkish scholarships, which are now branded. Mr. President, the number of students currently studying on an OHR scholarship from Turkey has been 15,000 students, as part of Turkish scholarships so far. As of this year, 82,000 people from 176 countries applied to study in 2014. This is a huge success, an important distance to come, but unfortunately, only 4,000 students have been granted a scholarship from 82,000 applications. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are our fourth institution, or rather, all of us are a constitutional institution, AYK, Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, and other institutions within it. As it is known, it has been expressed here too, that our organization is a constitutional institution. It's an organization founded in the integrity of social and human sciences to promote Ataturk and his work with Turkish language, history and culture, to make improvements on the subject, to conduct original, scientific research. We've had various offers from our friends about this organization. We wrote them down in detail. If you project them, make them more detailed offers, I'd like to say that we're not going to take any advantage of them, we're not going to back down. I'm just going to mention the activities of the institutions within this institution, the five institutions that we've done, and I'm coming to the end of my time, and I'm going to try to finish my speech. One of them is the integrated information system. Thanks to the integrated information system, this was used in 2013 -- all IT infrastructure was prepared and opened to the use of our people. The second field of activity is a matter of scholarship activities. Currently, 975 people are granted a degree, a master's degree, a Ph.D., and higher levels of scholarships, and are also scheduled to receive additional support for 224 scholarships this year. A total of 1,897 events from 2002 to 2014 were organised by the Ataturk Institute, which is national and 460. Similarly, 42 scientific events are planned in 2015. A total of 1.551 publications, 1,195 books and 386-period publications, have been prepared over the course of 12 years. Free publications have been sent to our libraries abroad by AYK so far, with 1 million,664 free broadcasts abroad and abroad. It's a full library of library activities, and in the meantime, 152,541 people took advantage of the library. Six works have been published on the translation of the basic works of Turkish language, 17 articles have been translated, 18 works and 43 articles have been planned for this year to be published on the outside. Also, the creation of the Turkish Language Foundation's Turkish sign language education system, grammar and dictionary preparation has been seriously used in this project. In addition, the Turkish Historical Institution's Library and Archive Materal Digitalization Project has been carried out and about 1 million materials have been digitalized as part of this project. Another project that is under way is the Temptation Project of Historical Turkish artifacts abroad. I don't want to go through all this and take your time. Hopefully, the Ataturk International Peace Prize, which has not been granted for a long time, is scheduled to be awarded within the year, in 2015, after thirteen years. Again, our work, which is on our agenda in a very serious way, and hopefully will take a serious step towards the Ataturk Language and History Institute, is the issue of the construction of the settlement in Ankara Çankaya district, which is now under construction permit. Mr. President, dear friends, valued lawmakers, thank God for our institutions, each of which is incredibly valuable institutions today that contribute to Turkey's cultural diplomacy. They've gone to a completely ideal level... yes, they can go to more advanced points, and they can serve better work for it, but I want to tell you with all my truth and all my clarity: no matter where we go, no matter where we're at the international meeting, the work is going around, and somehow it's coming to the Yunus Emre Institute, it's coming to AFAD, it's coming to the President of the Foreign Turks. I mean, not just us, but all the countries in Turkey's field of interest, I'd like to say that there is a serious demand for this issue. In this framework, we hope that you, your high delegation, the high council, will support our institutions and hope that in 2015, our institutions will take their activities seriously forward. Mr. President, I'd like to share an anecdote with you, if you'll allow me to make a scientific contribution -- not only to extract political polemics -- but also to discuss this Ottoman debate. It's likely that almost all of us here, from their contribution to culture, will never doubt that Western culture and Turkish culture are one of the best people in the history of the Republic, the late Master Cemil Meric. We're in college, or we're in college, and when we went to visit Cemil Meric, he said the exact same thing. He said at one point in the conversation: "Look, we've tried to teach people French in Turkey for years. I've tried to teach French a lot, but I don't think we could teach French easily in Turkey because it's a difficult language, a different language, a foreign language, it's very difficult to teach. If only we had taught people Ottoman, which is the way our language is written in another letter instead of trying to teach people French. Everyone would have learned Ottoman today.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0176par0655	Is that a true promise?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0656	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0177par0657	Is that true?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0658	I share an anecdote with you. My dear brother, I'm not saying this for political polemics.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0177par0659	So it's an Ottoman one with French? French is the native language. Whose native language is Ottoman?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0660	What we say is that what we call Ottoman, what we call old Turkish, or what we once called writing Turkish in another alphabet, is not Japanese language, French language, or Russian language.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0178par0661	So if you'd say we're openly against revolutions, just say so.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0662	It's a language that this country, this nation, has spoken for years. Our Turkish language is written in another alphabet, where I speak this language.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0179par0663	You're comparing apples and pears.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0180par0664	Look at the things you envy.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0665	Jonah is the language of Emre. Namik is the language of Kemal. He is the language of Ataturk, and the language of which he is educated. So let's not make it such a matter of polemics. This is one of the tools for Turkey's culture to enrich Turkey's culture.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0180par0667	Hodja, you've disgraced the whole conversation. What a beautiful speech you gave.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0668	It's a technicality given to whom given, how given, when given, what given. But the point is, it's not really understandable to stand up to the teaching of Ottoman, which is that Turkish is written in another alphabet.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0181par0670	As for giving examples, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, don't take Turkish culture in your mouth.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0175par0671	I salute you all. I wish you all a good budget.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0182par0674	Thank you, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0183par0675	How curious you are of the Arabic letters.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0184par0676	Your role models are people who have served Turkish culture.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0185par0677	Racism, racism.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0186par0678	Yes, Mr. Haydar Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Congressmans, Mr. Akar will speak.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0187par0681	As for example, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, do not speak of Turkish culture. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0188par0682	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0187par0683	Your role models are people who served Turkish culture. You don't talk Turkish culture. You said Turkish culture.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0189par0684	Mr. Korkmaz, there's a preacher on the stand. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0686	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were actually doing well, and he gave a nice speech, but as he always does, he's done it before. The AKP and AKP's Prime Minister and the head of the government at that time brought various criticisms, even harsh criticisms from us, but today we see how much power he defended them with. There's no way to figure it out.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0191par0687	Haydar, do you have anything to say? Do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0688	A language needs to be the mother tongue for continuity, the mother tongue. It's that clear. Are you uncomfortable with this? I'm just saying.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0191par0689	Do you have a promise, Haydar?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0690	Now, Mr. Babacan has come and painted pink paintings here. I received a message, and they said, "Does Babacan live in another country?," which is recorded on my cell phone. Yeah, I'm surprised, too. This Babacan probably never goes out on the street; all he does is go to the treasure, to his office. How many cars from there, they go home in their 2014 super luxury cars, they don't even know the street.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0191par0692	Haydar, are you taking the roller coaster?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0192par0693	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0694	Now, Mr. Secretary, the GDP was reduced by 6.2 per cent in 2002 and 3.3 per cent in 2014. Is it true? Well, the public's external debt is $86.5 billion in 2002, $23.7 billion in 2014. You know, we're going to lend this nation 5 billion IMF, and we're out of debt to the IMF. With higher loans, higher interest, you're taking money from financial institutions, and you're lending more to the government. Again, the private sector's external debt is $278 billion, but you don't accept it. I made my Gulf pass. You brag about it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0193par0696	Did you do it?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0697	Or I built the third airport. You brag about it or I did the highway. You brag about it, but Mr. Ahmet does it, Mr. Mehmet does it. As a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, I'm going to go through there every day with $42, and Ali Babacan will come out here. I did it. He'll brag about it, and he'll say that Turkey's external debt is not our debt. I applaud you, I applaud you, bravo!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0194par0699	Did you plant a tree, tree? Did you plant a tree?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0700	Did you plant the tree?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0194par0701	We stitched it up... in Yalova.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0702	Can you give me an example that he can do in your time of power and sell when another power comes? You sold everything in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0195par0703	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0704	The percentage of consumers' bank loans is 5.5 per cent, 55.2% today. You owe me $55 for every $100 you buy. That's what you've done, citizen. One kilowatt of electricity is 15.8 cents an hour, but 39.0 cents a 2014, increase rate is 146 percent, Mr. Babacan. You probably don't know these numbers. Shall I go on? There are many, many, but I give you the last two examples: the family's hunger limit is $1,155, $1,225 in 2014. The poverty limit of the family of four has increased from 1,155 to 3.990 TL. Now, actually, I was going to talk to him, but there's a lot to talk about in this budget. This budget is a rich budget, not a poor budget, not a poor budget, but a budget to give the rich more credit. My town is industrial, my friends. 44% of the people who work in my town work for minimum wage. You know when you give 12 to 1 and you hand out all the money from my town, my town is sixth in poverty, and 44% work for minimum wage? Again, my city's 80th place in public investments, after me is Hakkari. The last year he was ranked 79, and now we've crossed Şırnak, if I remember correctly, we're 80, and there's a Hakkari after us. Now, you have this economy and know that this is the state of the capital of the industry. There's a lot to be said for example, but time is too short, I can't explain it. But I'm gonna say it one more time. Indeed, this Minister community does not know the street.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0196par0710	You know, don't you?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0711	I don't suppose the Minister had any mud on his shoe. Because if he knew, he wouldn't have come here to make this country look so pink.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0197par0712	No one believes you, Haydar.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0190par0713	Yeah, nobody believes me, you're telling the truth, because I'm telling the truth. I'm telling you to keep people dreaming from here. But these people say one day they'll punish you, and I give you all love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit03spe0198par0716	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0198par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 27th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our second round of talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. The Commission and the Government are here. Now, lawmakers, the second round of speeches is complete. We're going to question-answer. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0199par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know which one of the ministers will answer, but I have a question: today in the town of Tokat, or as of yesterday, a soldier committed suicide while he was on watch at the army house. Again, as of yesterday, a staff sergeant committed suicide in Giresun. Between 2002 and 2013, 1,335 soldiers committed suicide. This year and as of 2014, 16 of our soldiers have committed suicide. And lately, especially with the increased suicides, the involvement of soldiers and police in traffic accidents, killings and martyrs, we're all concerned. So what do you say about this as a government? Or do you have any research or work at a point of reason? That's what I want to know. Another question is, as of today, a law on tradesmen was discussed on the Commission, but the tradesman...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0200par0011	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0201par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Akdoğan, in order to reduce the membership of RTÜK member Ali Öztunç, a research commission has been established from the AKP quota, one of the three members is Nurullah Ozturk. Before he was elected a member of the RTÜK, he served as head of the RTÜK Watch and Evaluation Agency. Although he's a public official, I've heard a press release from the MP Aykan Erdemir explaining his lesson without studying, there's no place to correct the RTÜK as a camel. My logo was 26 arrows, each of which was a principle. Upon my written motion to question the matter, Mr. Arinc was drawn to the attention of the employee. Seventy-five days after that, Ozturk was awarded the RTÜK membership. Do you believe that a member of the RTÜK who approached CHP and its MPs like this will be fair to Ali Öztunç? Ali Öztunçun'un, this is to entrust the lamb to the wolf. Do you agree with his concern?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0200par0014	Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0202par0015	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Akdoğan, I too have a point to be made regarding the matter of RTÜK, because Mr. President is with you, Mr. Dursun. Now, Mr. Akdoğan, when the commission came to the top board on this matter, Mr. President made a statement:.a person complained, we have a complaint, we have a complaint in the Parliamentary Office, we have a statement in the Republic Prosecutor's Office, and even the Parliament Speaker asks us what did you do in connection with this complaint? But yesterday, there was an explanation of our Deputy Leader Akif Bey, who told the Speaker of Parliament that Mr. Cicek had not made any written statements or even responded to the RTÜK presidency. Now, first of all, this needs to be cleared up. Secondly, I want to know if RTÜK President or RTÜK is setting up a commission on every petitioner like this?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0203par0019	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0204par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I asked those ministers yesterday when the budget was being discussed, but I'm asking again today, and I didn't get an answer yesterday, and hopefully today I'll get an answer from Mr. Babacan, Mr. Akdoğan, Mr. Survivor. So in accordance with Article 59 of the State Officers' Law, how many employees are taken without a test to the institutions you are responsible for? If you have staff in your institution without a test, does it not work in your institution and assign them to other institutions? If not, are there staff who have been taken from other institutions without a test and assigned to your institutions? That's my first question. My second question was, but Mr. Akdoğan did not answer his speech in his speech: At this time, the Speaker newspaper, Cumhuriyet daily, Zaman daily, Yuman daily, Millet daily, New Age, New Age, Samanyol TV, Today TV, People TV, National Canal, Presidency, Prime Ministership, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Justice. When will this ban be lifted? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0205par0024	Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0206par0025	Mr. President, how many banks went down in the coalitions before the EC PARTY governments, and how many banks cost our country, our nation, today's numbers? How many bankers were unemployed at that time? In 12 years, with what money did you do double roads, fast trains, hospitals, airports, universities, dams, thousands of classrooms, and the activities of TİKA (TİKA)? Will the Ankara-Samsun Speed Train Project be completed in the 100th year of our Republic before 2023? What do you intend to do to deliver Ataturk's shares in the Business Bank from the CHP and offer them to the service of the great nation? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] What kind of work do you do to save Ataturk (Ataturk) from being abused by others? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0207par0032	Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0208par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Akdoğan: Mr. Secretary, do you think Ataturk is corrupt or godless? Why don't the five AKP members of RTÜK have filed a criminal complaint against those who say such a thing on the screen? Are you thinking like these five RTÜK members? Again, the RTÜK President says the reason for the establishment of commissions on Republican People's Party members is the pressure of parliament and the Parliament has a demand. The Speaker tells the group's deputy president, especially Ali Oztunc, that the House does not have such a request. How long will the RTÜK president remain in office if he doesn't speak the truth? We'd like to know that, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0209par0037	Mr. Oz? No. Mr. Special? No. Mr. Original? No. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0210par0041	Mr. President, my first question: what is the gross income per person in Turkey? And how many armed officers are down as of the number of citizens living in Turkey? So, the ratio of armed officers, according to our calculations, is one armed officer per 38. The traffic guarantee for the third bridge is 5.5 billion. The third airport has a guarantee of 6.3 billion, 12 years, except for loan guarantees. What kind of guaranteed work are there for health cities and highways? Also, we have an external debt, a private sector of $277 billion, a public debt of 189 billion, a total of $411 billion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] How did he get rid of the IMF when he seemed to be in debt?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0211par0047	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0212par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the criteria set by the Banking Law, what is the real state of the bank he calls the bank? Is it right for the president to target a bank like that? What is the reason why BDDK and the minister in charge remain silent? What's the total amount of bail from the Treasury due to projects to be carried out in the third airport, the third Bosphorus Bridge, city hospitals, public-private cooperation and do-and-run methods? When we consider these as debts, what is the total amount of internal and external debt of the Treasury? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0213par0052	Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0214par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Akdoğan, do you intend to make a statement to the public as to the meaning of the educational-due policy that we have been reading over and over again from the press, which the government cannot explain? There are also reports that you had an agreement with the United States on training-doft policy. Who do you plan to train and what will be equipped with this training policy? Where will you send these militants you've trained to fight? Isn't that a crime, according to our criminal laws and international criminal laws? What do you want to do with your policy?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0213par0055	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0215par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr. Akdoğan: After 17-25 December corruption and bribery operations, which television, radio and newspapers were fined on what grounds? Again, in the same period, what television and other media companies received a total amount of incentive, advertising and publicity spending? My second question: What did you or did you not agree on or agree on in the last road map that was placed before you as part of negotiations between the PKK terrorist organization and your government? I ask Mr. Babacan: What was the direct or indirect impact of your recent statements about some banks in Turkey's economy? I'm asking Mr. Survivor: What's the total number and cost of people from Syrian refugees who have come to Turkey so far? In which of the other provinces, which of the non-camps has been placed how much?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0216par0061	Now I'm going to make a promise to the ministers. Mr. Secretary, you're now sharing ten minutes amongst yourselves. So let's start with whoever's going to start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0217par0064	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I've actually said quite a lot about this matter of members of the RTÜK, so normally there's a complaint here that the law is very clear, the negotiations at the High Council meetings are confidential, and the negotiations are not announced unless the decision is made, and the decision is made by the Supreme Council as a result of the evaluation of the resension or the application to be carried out. Now, with this conviction and a complaint like that, what can the Agency do here? Resen transferred the matter to the commission instead of decommissioning it, etcetera. This commission isn't a commission for investigation, it's a review just to have information. There's a committee of officers here, courtesy of the board members, in case it's not appropriate for them to review the board members. And that's not a commission to decide. So Nurullah Ozturk is not going to decide this alone, he's just going to study it. Like I said before, we don't have a problem taking down members of the CHP quota. However, no one here is free of the law. Being elected from a party's quota does not free people from the law, nor does it require them to act politically. Those rules apply to everyone, everyone has to follow them. We say this in good faith. Otherwise, no one's looking at the CHP quota. There is absolutely no such effort to discredit these friends. I wouldn't let that happen. That's what Mr. Dibek asked. This medicine was asked, so when you applied to Parliament, what did you do as RTÜK? I mean, it's not about doing it, it's about having information, it's about having an idea.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0218par0067	However, the Speaker says I have no such explanation.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0217par0068	It's what Mr. Tanal said. I'm in charge of the Department of Press and Information here. The Department of Press and Information doesn't have that kind of job, so it's like being in accredited. It's about the yellow press card, and there's a commission. There's only one or two members of the public here on this commission. The others are journalistic communities. I mean, there's no government intervention there. It's a commission that operates more autonomously. So if there's a complaint here, if there's a disturbance, we don't make this arrangement, and administrative procedures are open to the law. The other issue, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I said it before, when it came to the agenda, I strongly condemned it. This is unacceptable, and it must be punished. I have an explanation. RTÜK also punished him for this. This program has been punished three times. Beyond that, it is now a matter which must be brought to court, and it has been brought to court. I don't know what else to do. Of course, there are questions that have nothing to do with our institutions, and some of them we answer in writing because they require technical information. The other thing is, it's called this negotiation and so on and so on. We've been paying attention to terminology in this process, dear friends. Instead of something in the form of a negotiation, it's a case of negotiations. Here we call it the process of peace, not the process of solutions, we call it the accelerant, and terminology, the process, is a fundamental factor. We're sensitive about that. In our meeting with the HDP delegation -- our friends here -- which was released to the press here last week -- the process has been general assessment. We didn't evaluate the Imranic draft or discuss issues such as amnesty, autonomy, and we didn't discuss them. Here, this process continues with social acceptance, social trust, social support and consent. And we don't have to take a step in spite of society, but I'm saying we're in the middle of a good effort to resolve a situation that has cost tens of thousands of lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0219par0075	Mr. Akdoğan, you didn't answer our question, the training-donut...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0217par0076	I hope it's in writing.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0220par0077	He says he'll give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0219par0078	I asked the Minister of Justice, he hasn't been answered, I asked you, he hasn't been answered, who can we get an answer from?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0220par0079	Here you go, Mr. Babacan.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0221par0080	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to answer the question of Mr. New Way about these banks.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0222par0082	It's a crime, you know, you don't want to explain yourself to him.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0221par0083	We measure it from here: The bank transfers to TMSF, as well as the public banks' deposits for the damage of their duties, were organized and debted during that period, and these private arrangement loans were paid two or three years ago. How much did we pay for this? When we look at it and bring it back from the date we paid the debt to today with the interest of debting the treasure, we see a cost of 525 billion euros, a cost of 525 billion euros. This means that if Turkey hadn't had a banking crisis and had gone from that day to day in Turkey's finance policies with the same tightness, same precision, Turkey would have no public debt today, there would have been no domestic debt. So this tells us very well about the size of the banking crisis that happened that day. In total, 22 banks have turned into funds here, but the damage of public banks remains a cost to the public.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0223par0086	Sir, by the way, what is the damage done by the banks that went down with Islamic capital?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0224par0087	I asked the question, guys.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0221par0088	There were also questions about the warranty. In fact, the answer to these questions -- the answer to public debt -- is in a very detailed way in the Public Debt Management Report, published once a month by our Undersecretary of Treasury. It's published once a month, there's a lot of detail. And this is the October copy that I have, and the November copy is now on the Internet. The print hasn't come out yet, but there's a copy of November on the Internet. There's internal debt, foreign debt, all the details, short term, long term, currency, whatever you want. So, you can see all the details of public debt, even the external debt of the private sector, in this report, in a neat way. I've told you before, this is the new part about the loan-taking, and it's currently $5 billion $270 million that the Treasury said it would take over in case there's a problem with the project. Of course, as new projects are added in the future, that number can increase. Other than that, there are traffic guarantees for some projects, that's true, but those traffic guarantees are related to the moving vehicle or the number of passengers arriving at airports. It's already been announced and after it's been announced, the tender for public-private partnership is being tendered. So it's not the surprising things that come later. I mean, the people who get into this public-private partnership, they go in there on purpose, and that's where the competition comes in. And when there's a problem, the whole project becomes government, but the debt goes back to the government. I mean, that's how these loan-taking deals work. So far, it's just -- like I said -- it's for three projects. I gave you the information on income per person, but there's no need to mention that again. We now have a multinational income per person of around $18,800, which is indexed to the purchase power parity. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0225par0092	Mr. Survivor, I'm going to add two minutes here, so three minutes and 45 seconds. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0226par0094	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I've been asked two questions. One of them is the example of taking unsubstantiated personnel to institutions. I'm telling you, there's a detail here, and I want to make it clear before I go into them. No staff at the AFAD, TİKA, the President of Turkish abroad and Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute can be taken without a test due to legal legislation. Therefore, none of our institutions have received untested personnel. It's already been possible for the staff to get very high scores.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0227par0096	Any exceptions?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0226par0097	He's not around here, there's no exceptions in these institutions. Also, the second question is the issue of Syrian refugees living in camps and out of camp. 1,654,000 Syrian refugees, Syrian refugees, live outside the camps. How long he lives in which city, we can give it all to you in writing. It's a long list. In Istanbul, in Adana, even around here, the population of the inhabitants is known. Twenty-four thousand people live in camps, and all the services of those living in camps are now provided to 224 thousand people in camps, including health care and other social services from educational services, food services in some camps, and a certain amount of money per month to be given to them per person. But, of course, you can appreciate that 1 million, 645,000 people are being supported by people living in cities, by our NGOs, by Red and other organizations, by municipalities. In short, I'd like to present these. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0228par0100	They ignored our question, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0229par0101	Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0230par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we are at a disadvantage. The ministers are always talking about what they want, and we want to at least ask our questions as lawmakers. Now I'm asking Mr. Babacan: According to the Supreme Court's decision, the annual card bill cannot be received. When the consumer restructures its debt, the cost of restructuring cannot be received. Despite decisions such as those against banks, however, laws that protect consumers who are weak and victimised should be passed, while laws and regulations that make consumers even more victims. So, the consumer, despite many judicial decisions, is finally able to get the bank to pay directly for the loan and the long bureaucratic process, which must be paid directly by the bank. It's a way to make consumers give up, but those who see this process as an opportunity...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0231par0105	Now, Mr. Babacan, you have exactly 20 seconds in writing? I'll close in 20 seconds, okay?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0232par0106	No, I'll give you a quick answer.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0231par0107	Now I've decided to follow too many rules.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0232par0108	Okay, thanks.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0231par0109	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0232par0110	You know, there are also provisions for banking in the new consumer protection law, which is adopted by our Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and part of the implementation of those banking provisions is our Ministry of Customs and Trade, but also a major part of the BDDK. The BDDK makes these decisions based on the opinion of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. Some of the issues you're talking about are already considered in this consumer protection law and are now being implemented. If there's one or two things that aren't being applied to what you're saying right now, it's already on the commission to decide whether or not it should be discussed in the General Assembly...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0231par0111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0233par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0231par0114	Sir.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0234par0115	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0235par0116	It's our silent, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0236par0117	It's low.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0237par0118	Now, I'm going to listen to Mr. Vice President, but why don't you... I mean, can't everyone talk together?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0236par0119	No, no, his throat...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0237par0120	No, I can't hear you when you're all talking. I've seen Mr. Sky, and it's in the system, so I'm going to ask him what happened, and I'm going to do whatever it takes. Why do you make fools of us all?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0238par0122	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0237par0123	Yes, Mr. Sky, what's this about? You want to talk about your position?
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0239par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0237par0125	No, I'll open it, but I'll...
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0240par0126	He's quiet because of his illness, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0237par0127	Now, look, I've been following you guys before, so I've been guessing what you're going to want, and I've always been doing what I needed to do. Then a group of vice presidents reminded me to listen to you first and then do what I have to do because I can't direct it very heavily, which is because I can't direct it right. And since then, I've been asking everyone, even though I've been following them. So, unfortunately, what do you want now? I'm going to ask you what you want, and you're going to answer me, and I'm going to open the system.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0241par0128	My voice is low. Mr. President- Ha, are you quiet? I'm so sorry, then. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0242par0131	That's what we've been trying to tell you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0243par0132	Okay, I've got it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0241par0133	Mr. President, we need to inform our House on a matter so that the question asked by a friend of ours from the AKP will not be left out. The shares of the Business Bank must be removed from the Republican People's Party. We need to make a statement about this so that no one will hesitate and this question will remain out of the question. In that respect, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Dibek will present the matter to the Council's knowledge in two sentences.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0244par0134	I'm going to ask for your word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0243par0135	Don't be so hard on me. Here you go, Mr. Dibek.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0245par0139	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, Mr. Group, before we get to the point that our Deputy Secretary Yalçin Akdoğan said that he was being punished for the promise used on that particular channel, but we've learned that there is no punishment. Mr. Secretary, I'm guessing he was misinformed there. Now, the other issue, Mr. President, is being brought up from time to time. In fact, it's an incident that's been said at the same time. They know there's not a penny in the Republican People's Party's vault about the shares of our Business Bank, and Mr. Secretary is there. In fact, according to the will, the amount from the shares there is being transferred to the Turkish Language Institution and the Turkish Historical Institution. Now, knowingly, Mr. New Way, or at times, the AKP Speakers insist on saying that, Mr. President, we consider it far from good faith.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0246par0142	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0247par0143	Mr. President... 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 BANKIAN RETURNING AND TRYING [[Continue]] 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2013 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 ÜRKÜRK CÜLTÜRK KÜLTÜLK, DÜLKİLK AND TARIK KURKY [[Continue]] 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 "I") "Turkish language" [[Continue]] 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013
tbmm-2014-12-12sit04spe0248par0190	Now, I'm going to let you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the second round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.01) RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 205,051.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 41,449.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 248,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 56,985,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 191,015,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 248,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight of 2013 will take part in the final account of central management: those in favor... those in favor... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 162,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 150,740,366,70 Canceled Fund 11.259.633.30 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 162,000,000.00 Net Collection 158,843,925,65 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 7:77) BASIN-YAYING AND INFORMATION GENIAL PRODUCTION 1) Media-Journal Information and General Directorate Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 19,898.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 215,486,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 235,985,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2015 has been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Account of 2013 shall be transferred to the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 I'm reading the general sum of the ruler A: Total allowance 160,902,500,00 Budget Expenses 157.839.916.39 Canceled Fund 3,062,583,61 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information has been accepted as part of the central management account in 2013. Undersecretary of Treasury, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) Undersecretary of Treasury 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 55,747,467,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,900,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 10,300,500,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 2.350,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 68,399,057,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. Undersecretary of Treasury, I'd like to submit to your votes to the division of the central management account in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Treasury Undersecretary's Final Account for Central Management 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 68,845,414,392.33 Budget Expenses 63,797,023,397,55 Canceled Fund 5,048,390,994.78 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,496,007,854,36 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury Undersecretary was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Banking Editing and Investigating Board of Directors of the 2015 central management budget will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editing and Inspection Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 15.427,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 266,573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 282,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 281,950.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Earnings 50,000 TOPLAM 282,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Banking Editing and Control Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 200,000,000,00 Budget Expenses 99,716,260,55 Cancelled Fund 100,283,739,45 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 200,000,000.00 Net Collection 198,730,478,08 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Banking Editing and Control Agency was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board of 2015 will take part in the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 35.689,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 10.573.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 63,234,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 109,496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 91,246,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 18.250,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 109.496,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Capital Market Board has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board's central management account of 2013 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Capital Market Board Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 95,150,000.00 Budget Expenses 79,971,518,32 Canceled allowance 15.538.481.68 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 95,150,000.00 Collection 162.914.806.75 Ret and Returns 897.483.58 Net Collection 162.017.323,17 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Capital Market Board was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the president of disaster and emergency management shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.96) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 70.037,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 124.479.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5,150,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 9.032,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 4,062,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 780,654,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 993,414,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the disaster and emergency administration has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency management of the central management account of 2013 be transferred into the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Disaster and Emergency Management Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: Total Payment 2.141.217.959.00 Budget Expenses 1,918,787,754,38 Canceled Fund 222.430.204.62 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The head of disaster and emergency management was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2013. Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency President, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 will be taken into custody: those who don't accept... are accepted. 40.32) Turkish Employment and COORDINIASYON AJANSI Vice President 1) Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 140,369000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 680,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 141,049.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes with Donations and Aids 139,039,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 1,930.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 141,049.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. President of the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration of 2013 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 213,838,973,01 Budget Expenses 149.636.838.47 Canceled Fund 56,939,120,68 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7,263,013,86 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 99,791,00 Net Collection 177,951,286,99 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency's presidency was approved for the final account of central management in 2013. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turkish and Relative Community shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.51) THE PRESIDENT OF THE YURTDISH ENGLISH AND ACRABAL PRODUCTIONS 1) Turkeys abroad and the President of the Associations of Relatives 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 53.446,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 170,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 223,896,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 723.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 223,153,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 20,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 223,896,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the President of the Foreign Turks and Relatives Associations, in 2013, the final account of the central administration, shall be transferred to the chapters of the final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President of the Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys, Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 189,528,918,04 Budget Expenses 153,770,529,19 Canceled allowance 35,758,388,85 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 167,211.000,00 Collection 159.976.178.07 Refuge and Returns 1,320,20 Net Collection 159,974.857,87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The president of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad was granted a final account of central management in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.02) THE ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 10.360.400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 252.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 10.613.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 10,608,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 4,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 10,613.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History shall take part in the final account of central management in 2013: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 9.245.545.38 Budget Expenses 8.826.338.28 Canceled Fund 419.207.10 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 8.266.300.00 Net Collection 8.902.297.25 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2013. Ataturk Research Center, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 will be taken into consideration by those who don't accept it. 40.03) ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2015 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4.299.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 83.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 4,216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4,299.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2015. Ataturk Research Center, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Research Center Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 3.416,000.00 Budget Expenses 3.055,247,31 Cancelled Fund 360.752.69 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 2.335,000.00 Net Collection 3.038.058,73 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.04) ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2015 Central Management Budget 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 4,350,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 4.350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 165,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 4,365,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 4,350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2015. Ataturk Cultural Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.798,000.00 Budget Expenses 3,046,333,80 Canceled Fund 1.751.666.20 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 3,873,000,00 Net Collection 3,982.421,20 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.05) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget 2015 03 Public Order and Security Services 253.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 14.146.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 14.400,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Access and Property Profits 92,520.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 301,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 50,537,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 5,000 TOPLAM 143,363,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management budget of 2015 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 17.775,000.00 Budget Expenses 12,042,327,15 Canceled Fund 5.732.672.85 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 139,932,200,00 Collection 128,267,560,46 Rejections 553,39 Net Collection 128,267,007,07 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management account in 2013 have been adopted. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who have not accepted... those who have not. 40.06) Turkish Tariq Kurd 1) Turkey's historical institution's Central Management Budget for 2015 03 Public Order and Security Services 296,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 8.928,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Gen. TOPLAM 9.224,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 80,571.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 30,407,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 111,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management budget of 2015 have been adopted. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Society's central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey's historical institution is the Central Administration's final account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 30,619,787,38 Budget Expenses 26,111,906,18 Canceled Fund 4,507,881,20 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 125,000,000.00 Net Collection 125.102.058.22 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management account in 2013 have been adopted. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the second round were accepted. I wish them well. Congressmans, the second round of talks is complete. Congressmans, members of the group, I'd like to thank you all very deeply for today. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (December 13th 2014) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the organisations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
