tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 6th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency within three minutes of a staff interface. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Dear and dear congresswoman friends, before we make an off-the-book promise, there's a serious hum in our General Assembly, if we can get the peace... The first word outside the agenda belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, who wants to talk about the problems facing the security forces. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to address the issues of the Turkish nation's security personnel. I give my regards to the president and to your grand delegation who gave this opportunity. The most important reason we can live in safety and in peace is because of our security forces. In order for security forces to perform their duties successfully, no doubt their training, equipment, discipline, and problems must be resolved. From the Turkish Armed Forces to the police, from the gendarmes to the village rangers, the staff of every institution that works for the safety of the community, whether it is the country or the country, must be happy, peaceful, moral, and motivated, so that it can maintain peace and quiet in society. We've brought these problems to the AKP governments from this bench over and over again, as if we'd run out of feathers in our language, even the promises made by former Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and other government officials, but we haven't been able to get any results. The problems of petty officers and specialist sergeants in the military hierarchy, the police's demands for additional indicators, overwork hours, and so on. Retired Petty Officers and our police are struggling to survive under the age of starvation, let alone poverty. Instead of spending their pensions resting, they provide them as security employees or as vendors. While the village rangers have bled and died to fight terrorism, they are still being held hostage by a terrorist organization. Just last week, two of our rangers were kidnapped by the PKK's terrorist group again. The government is powerless to improve the status of the rangers, to improve their rights, and to secure the lives of those who guard them. What I'm trying to roughly sum up is that this painting upsets all of our security forces. However, the AKP government deals with PKK terror organizations, which are upsetting and upsetting our security forces and destroying morale and motivation. For years, it has destroyed our security forces, especially our Kurdish-rooted people living in the east and southeastern part of the country, soldiers, police, rangers, public officials, civil citizens who have slaughtered everyone without discrimination. With this organization, which has not given up its aim to divide our country for a moment, the debate with the entire community has had a negative effect on morale and motivation as well as on the fact that it has not given up its weapon. No harm in opening up. The fact that you can't interfere with the murderers who have martyred your friends, especially with a lawless and illegal order, makes sense of the security forces. For years, as the National Movement Party, there is no negotiation with terrorists who don't give up their weapons, there can't be these killers as representatives of our Kurdish people; this is an insult to our Kurdish citizens, we said, "Don't leave these people at the initiative of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, we were implied that they were fed of blood." In October 6th, 7th, everyone saw that blood and fear are required to feed the original PKK monster. Years ago, we find that the misunderstanding, which called the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), called the PKK (PKK), re-explained by the October 6th-7th incident, was called a 3-5 street punk. The AKP's policy to remove an angel from those criminals has failed to forget that PKK is a terrorist organization. However, there are some of our people and young people who have been led by threat by the armed pressure and violence of the PKK. This is where the security staff is devastated. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, every area from border security to security, private life and property security is full of threats. These days, the AKP's priorities are parallel structures inside, and Assad is outside. In all the state's institutions, especially in the security departments, practices launched under the name "Frequency of the parallel" have unfortunately turned into witch hunts. ▪ The parallelist has been decisive in promotions and appointments with false reports and complaints. In particular, unqualified personnel who have been relieved of duty have caused serious weaknesses in intelligence, prevention and pursuit of crime. Former Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who came to me with these parallelists. He said, and since he knows them, instead of doing a transaction on them, it is the result of a malfunctioning understanding that all public personnel should be left under suspicion. Until just a year ago, it is not unusual for many members of the congregation to search for references from the congregation at the absolute word of the congregation in appointments and promotions. What's strange is that the safety is delivered to such a structure. Your government is state-of-the-art, and inside... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...there are important steps he must take to ensure peace and order. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The second out-of-date statement belongs to Mr Mustafa Serdar Soydan, who asked for a statement on the environmental order plan covering the provinces of Çanakkale and Balıkesir. Here you go, Mr. Soydan.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, Canakkale and Balıkesir cover our provinces 1/100. I've taken an off-the-book promise on the 1,000-scale environmental arrangement plan. My respects to the High Council. The plans for environmental order, which is the constitution of cities, determine the location and sectoral decisions for the future of cities. The Balıkesir-Chanakkale Planning Zone covers the provinces of Balıkesir and Çanakkale and aims at 2040 years. The 5,000 Scaled Environment System Plan directly affects the lives of some 1,700,000 people living in our region, while has indirectly influenced millions of visitors from all over the world. Population projections set the basis for the target year for all spatial and sectoral decisions taken while preparing environmental layout plans. The plan, which covers the provinces of Balıkesir and Çanakkale and aims at 2040 years, envisions increasing the population of the region by about threefold in a 25-year projection, and most of the increase in cities. Planning to move away from the rural structure in a region of important agricultural and forest areas is forcing the manufacturer and farmer to migrate to the suburbs of the cities. The Biga farmer, who produces in the fertile land of the Plain of Biga, will no longer produce Kozsheşme-Selvi peppers. Our farmer, who produces chocolate, rice, boiling beans, will be forced to leave his territory. Eating Biga's meat, drinking Biga's milk will be a dream now. Naturally sensitive areas, especially areas where the area's oxygen tank is densed with Kaz Mountains and farmland, are threatened by industrial, energy and mining facilities. The entire region, especially the Kaz Mountains and the Plain of Biga, will be affected without the unplanned and distorted industrialization the government predicted. We're going to face environmental problems that can't be compensated for in very large habitats from productive agricultural areas to residential areas. With that understanding and decision, we see that the government will continue to attract and pursue the world's unique natural heritage, the oxygen supply of Kaz Mountain to international mining companies. Members of parliament, the southern coast of Bozcaada is being built as a housing area, and all agricultural areas are being made suitable for the construction of the second dwelling under the name. This is the total removal of the island, which is mostly land sites and is significantly produced of grapes, from agricultural production, to the tourism and construction sector. Even the fact that the hotel area in the village of Sademli, in Gökçaada, whose legality and court decisions have been eliminated, has already been written into the plan, shows how the plan is runt-oriented. Members of parliament, although the purpose of the plan is to protect the natural values, the application and preparations are inverted from the statement specified. In the next 25 years, the AKP has determined the balance of protection, plunder and destruction by destroying ecological balance in Çanakkale and Balıkesir. After the Minister's visit to Bozcaada as members of the Republican People's Party of the Environment Commission, let's have a referendum on the Bozcaada, which the Minister has announced. Mr. Secretary is well aware that the problem will not only be resolved by a referendum in Bozcaada. The problem lies not only in Bozcaada, but also in Çanakkale and Balıkesir. Mr. Secretary must immediately withdraw and cancel the plan. The plan must be redesigned on the basis of democratic, participatory and scientific data, in line with the opinion and suggestions of the people in the region. We will not abandon the number of heritages of history and culture in the world in Çanakkale, our fertile land in the initiative of international mining companies, iron steel, cement and thermal power plants; we will continue to retain our land, water, and air that is watered by the blood of our martyrs. What the mind and science say is that the people of Çanakkale want our unique geography protected and protected, the natural wealth of Çanakkale to be served by the world's culture and tourism industry. Let us not forget that it is impossible to speak of civilization in the areas where we have lost air, water, and land. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Erzurum MP Mr. Fazilet Dağcı Shrike, who asked to present information on the 131st General Assembly meeting of the International Union in Geneva, Switzerland, on October 12, 16th 2014. Here you go, Mr. Scream.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0006par0051	Mr. President, I have been promised to inform you of the 131st General Assembly of the Parliamentary Union from October 12, 16th 2014 in Geneva, and in this regard as members of the Turkish Group, and I salute you. The PAB is an international organisation with 163 independent parliaments and is working closely with the United Nations. In this framework, the PAB is discussing current, political and economic issues on the international agenda at the General Assembly twice a year, and at the end of each General Assembly meeting, its decisions are brought to the attention of the world's public. In Turkey, we are represented by eight MPs, including five AK PARTYs, two CHPs, and one MP. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, the main agenda item in the last General Assembly of the PAB is to ensure gender equality and prevent violence against women. I gave a speech to the PAB members to tell them about the work and the development of these issues in our country. In this scope, I said that many regulations have been carried out in Turkish Penal Code, Turkish Civil Law, and Labour Law, and that the rate of women's employment, which was 20.7 per cent in 2004, increased to 27 per cent in 2013, while the percentage of women's representation in the 2002 general elections increased to 14.4 per cent in the June 2011 general elections. I shared the development of women's women's women's women's arms with PAB delegations in order to set a good example. I stressed that the AK PARTY, which currently has 3.9 million registered female members, is the largest political organization in the world, and has the chance to reach women in every city, every town, every village, as its institutional structure. The Istanbul Convention, known as the Council of Europe's Convention on Violence Against Women, was first signed by Turkey and voted in our Parliament on 1 August 2014. I have stated that efforts to comply with the contract have been conducted in cooperation with the ministries concerned by our Ministry of Family and Social Policy. During the General Assembly, the Istanbul Convention was awarded a vision award by the World Future Council, which was also a member of the PAU. My fellow lawmakers, as a result of the vote on six urgent agendas proposed for the 131st General Assembly meeting of the Inter- Parliamentary Union, have been considered an emergency agenda of the International Invasive Parliaments for the outbreak of Ebola. Turkey has supported this agenda by giving full vote. As you know, in recent months, the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa has killed many people, especially women, children, and elderly people. The World Health Organization and the United Nations Security Council have decided to form an emergency response group for the Ebola outbreak, which they consider a threat to international peace and security. The PAB member states have largely supported this decision to ensure international support without delay. In addition, the emergency agenda of the Parliaments Initiatives for the recognition of the Rights of the People of Palestine for Gaza, which our country has shown great sensitivity to, has been fully supported by our group, but it has been considered a substance related to the Ebola epidemic. My esteemed President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, since the four-year term of the President of the Council of Morocco, President of the PAU in 2011, has ended, and the PAU has been elected President of the General Assembly. The elections included Indonesia, Maldives, Bangladesh and Australian candidates from the Asia-Pacific region. Mr. Chowdhury won the presidential election, which Turkey has supported. On this occasion, I say I am pleased to convey our work to our great Parliament and salute our beloved nation.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0007par0060	Thank you, Mr. Scream. Before we go on the agenda, I'll give my 10 friends a minute according to Article 60. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0008par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ottoman descendants, today's rulers, do not give up tyranny and oppression. This time, the target is Fazil Say, the pianist whom the world knows and honors. The Fazil Say works on the 2014-2015 edition of the Presidential Symphony Orchestra were released at the request of the Ministry. The artist's 3 works, the Istanbul Symphony, are said to be approved in the event of the release of the works of the piano concerto, the works of Child-Hermias on Yunus's Back by the Ministry prior to the opening concert. Embargos, censorship, dismissal, this is the government's approach to society in culture and in all areas. The General Directors of the State Theatre were also declared unwanted. The Ministry of Culture likes works, artists, they don't like it. I thought you said no one would interfere with your opinion, your life, your philosophy. But they blend in and stop him from meeting the public. We say the AKP regime, which is the name of oppression, bans, censorship, must end now. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0009par0068	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. The issue of improving the rights of university professors forgotten during the 12 years of AKP governments finally reached the agenda of the Supreme Assembly 12 years later. But the offer, unfortunately, was incomplete and inadequate. Experts, educational planners and environmentalists, particularly among academic staff, have been deprived of these improvements. I'd like to share with the High Council that it is in the interest of bringing this matter to the attention of the law proposed as MPs of the National Movement Party. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0011par0073	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0012par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister was in the YKK yesterday, where they had promised to remove it, but preferred to make it their backyard. The Prime Minister, who is a professor, has signed an AKP classic and betrayed his colleagues by posting all the problems of the universities on the professors. In 12 years, the prime minister seems to have forgotten what he had done to evacuate universities from 73 to 184, noting that the number of universities had increased from 73 to 184. Mr. Prime Minister, if any of the professors are unqualified, they're the jet professors you've appointed politically. I'd like to invite you to apologize to all faculty immediately.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0013par0078	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0014par0080	Mr. President, thank you. For some reason, I had the opportunity to spend the last weekend in the beautiful, peaceful, peace and brotherhood of our East Anatolian city of Bingol. I have lived there for two days, as long as I could, the hospitality of our inhabitants of Bingol, and of our brothers of Bingol. About two weeks ago, we had the opportunity to extend our condolences to our fellow citizens of Bengol, our governor, and our Chief Constable about the two police officers who were killed because of the incident we had. In the last 12 years, I have seen and observed that the government, our municipality, and our private administration, prepared for tomorrow's investments, did not give bonuses to those who tried to blacken their flourishing hopes, but did not compromise. From here, I send our greetings to all my Bingol people who sail for peace, brotherhood, peace, and my brothers under the roof of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, and I wish them a better day. Again, I'd like to thank you through you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0015par0084	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0016par0086	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, there's been a lot more queues in front of hospitals recently, especially on our Adana side, so there's a pile, condensation. And the reason for this condensation is that the percentage of those over 65 years old and the pensioner's share of this, they call it, is that it's very high. Can't the lawmakers who say they're good at health, even if their bureaucrats are a little interested in the matter in Adana, correct it, Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0017par0089	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0018par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The health worker has suffered major losses in the last ten years. In particular, the doctor who is retired in our country receives 75 per cent of his monthly income, 55% of the nurse and midwife, and 42 per cent of the other health workers; only one per cent of the workers can live on pensions. The Ministry of Health must work urgently on this or the health worker is afraid of retiring, not retiring. In order for a health worker's life not to be poisoned and to continue his life without hardship when he retires, his rights must be improved. He says we expect this kind of sensitivity from the Ministry of Health and the government, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0017par0093	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0019par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. In the village of Kurganlı, Mush Bulan was taken from the house of Irfan Sucu and taken to the mountain by PKK people. They tortured the citizens by handcuffing them, and eventually released the ransom. PKK terrorists raided Kurganlı village again, and this time they wanted to kidnap Azerbaijah. There's been a shootout, and the citizen has escaped and lost his trail. The PKK is currently checking IDs in the village of Sarapınar to take over this citizen. Citizens are fleeing the area leaving their villages. The PKK kidnaps one person from each house and demands a ransom. The village of Malazgirt Yozbaşı is raiding the Kördegür merra, kidnapping Ahmet Acar, torturing him; the citizen saves his life by paying $110,000. Ten days later, the same mezzanine is raided again, and Mustafa Acar opposes PKK terrorists, and then he has to leave his village. At the moment, the PKK has 15 people in hand. The PKK wants a ransom. I talked to the local authorities, they confirmed the situation, they said they couldn't do anything...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0017par0098	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's a pleasure to have the Minister here, thank him for coming. Article 347 of the Law of Debts states that a person who has been a tenant for ten years, without any reason, the owner of the property will evacuate immediately. Dear Minister, this is indeed an unjust practice. All tenants who have been tenants for ten years are victims of this Law. We've offered the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a law proposal for the removal of this victim, in which people are not to be removed from the present place for no reason. I'm asking you to support this proposal of the law in order to address this victimhood. I expect the immediate relief and support of our current tenant citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0021par0104	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0022par0106	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports the following questions through you: How many students have applied to the Dorms Association this year? How many of these have been placed in the dorms? Will these students, who remain exposed to their friends and acquaintances, who are waiting for them to leave at any moment, find a home where they can be placed, or do not hope, and take care of yourselves? We've been through the ages for 12 years, you say. You haven't been able to solve the dorm problem yet, what are you in the prime of?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0023par0111	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0024par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP governments govern the state in unregistered areas. The tenders and pools are arranged behind the scenes, prosecutors and judges closing corruption are detected in dark rooms, the zoning rants are being disbanded from the community, we helped Barzani (PYD) but the AKP told us not to tell anyone. He says he's sorry that Joe Biden told us about what was said behind the scenes. The Danish government is saying that the İsmailist who shot the citizens was taken off the record from Turkey. I'd like to warn the AKP government not to take the state off the record any further. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0116	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek was accepted on October 19 to October 22, 2014 by a Parliamentary delegation to South Korea to respond to the invitation of South Korean National Assembly President Chung Ui-hwa. Names reported by political party groups to form our delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, number 3620, dated 28/3/1990, are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. [[Afyonkarahisar]] 2) Mine Leuk White [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Faruk Nafiz Özak [[Tripoli]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary survey motion that I shall read in the third place is more than 500 words, a summary of the motion will be read, but the full text of the motion will be included in the journal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to identify the problems of the educational system in Turkey, to investigate the problems of teachers, to determine the conditions necessary for the teachers to carry out their professions and to determine the damage done by contracted, staffed teachers' employment to our education system, we shall require the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Van]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] The problems with structural problems in the current education system and the problems with the 4+4+4 system have begun a troubled education period together. Schooling rates, physical conditions, difficulties in the curriculum, lack of education budget and the problems of teachers who take the most important role in education remain. Because of the AKP government's approach to commercialisation of the educational system, teachers have been emptied under social security and have been able to work without many working rights. The World Bank Education Report, published in 2011, revealed how the education system was commercialised in Turkey. The report indicates that the test-oriented system fuels the classroom and private class, while Turkey's number of classrooms is almost equal to the number of general high schools. According to the report, the annual spending of classrooms per student is between $400,10,000 US dollars. The classrooms form an estimated $1 billion annual section of non-profit income. The report, stated in Turkey that children have started taking private lessons since they were ten years old, stresses that this deepens the inequality in education due to the different degrees of private lessons for poor families and families whose income is high. Families in Turkey spend twice as much money for their children's education as compared to their income for an average OECD family. Hungary and Turkey pay 4,000 dollars for secondary school, although Turkey is two school years behind the student in Hungary. There are 14 times the difference between 20 per cent and the poorest 20 per cent in terms of education spending. Families have to spend 1 per cent to 1.5 per cent of their income on education. The average number of students per teacher in OECD countries rose to 26 students in Turkey, with the average number of students per teacher. Among the OECD countries, there are countries such as Turkey, Mexico and Hungary, where teachers receive the lowest wages. However, these comparisons are based on the condition of staffed teachers. In the teaching profession, where flexible working conditions with the AKP government have been introduced, the number of paid teachers has risen to 52,616 teachers, although there is a shortage of 116,317 teachers. Pay teachers receive one-quarter salary from staff teachers and are also deprived of many social and work rights. Because of the lack of employment guarantees, the application that drives teachers to work in a second job avoids the understanding of the social state. Despite the lack of teachers today, the absence of teachers' appointments and the lack of flexible employment practices show that education has been marketed. On the other hand, teachers who are unable to work as job guarantees and civil servants are prevented from getting laid off freely, while their wages are at a minimum wage level, and because of their worry about living, they have a healthy way of carrying out their duties. Research by OECD and other organisations clearly shows that education is commercializing in Turkey, while the situation of the teaching profession is grave. We propose a research commission in Turkey to determine the problems of the educational system, to investigate the problems of teachers, to determine the conditions necessary for the implementation of teachers' professions, and to determine the damage done to our educational system by contracting, paying teachers' employment. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, there are murders, robberies, man-in-laws, conflicts in the middle of the street, and there are a wide range of media coverage every day. This has made our citizens very nervous, with the desire to ensure their own safety, and our citizens' interest in the pistol has increased day by day. Turkey has 1,120,000 registered handguns, and around 8 million unlicensed weapons are available in the media. According to the figures of the Hope Foundation, which has fought against individual arms, the number of registered weapons in Turkey is 2.5 million. We now see that the difficulties in supply of weapons lead people to unlicensed, unregistered weapons and that Turkey is a weapons paradise with licensed weapons, with numbers and events that are happening. One of the reasons for the increase in crime rates is that our citizens are now in the shadow of the weapon. Because of this alarming situation, people can fall victim to a murder or a stray bullet at any time. It can be said that individual arming brings with it more weapons and more death. In Turkey, especially at weddings and after sporting events, weapons of joy are unfortunately causing accidental deaths. In our country, where about 20,000 people are armed each year, the Machine Chemical Industry Agency also makes campaign arms sales and imports weapons. The company sold 18,577 in 2005, 18,575 in 2006, 19,994 in 2007 and 19.575 in 2011. He also imported 5,881 pistols in 2011. Although about 80 per cent of the weapons produced in Turkey have been exported, and these weapons have been produced to compete with many other world countries, unfortunately continue to import weapons by the Machine Chemical Industry Agency. This is the greatest evidence in our country's economy that we can't maintain our national wealth and industry. The manufacturer, who wants to sell the weapon he produces, wants the security forces to use domestic weapons. If this is not achieved, the weapons are now being circulated off-the-books. Unfortunately, the presence of a large number of weapons registered and unregistered in our country has frightened people of their lives. Therefore, important steps regarding access to weapons, implementation of training programmes and new regulations must be made, considering the country's economy, using domestic weapons must be developed, and the sector must be prevented from being used off-the-book. For a safe society, for a safe life, the state must make realistic decisions on weapons and ensure the peace, trust of society in the best possible way, individual disarmament. For reasons that have briefly been briefed above, I would like to ask that Parliament investigate the reasons for preventing unregistered use of weapons in Turkey to be opened under Article 104, 105, and Article 98 of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] 14) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 15) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Early disaster occurs in the village of Kapubağ, where waste ashes are stored at the thermal plant that threatens Yathan district of Muğla. Our villagers are victims of the negative effects of the water used in the reclamation of the sleeping ash mountain. It's a disaster that will soon occur when the water in the ash pond pours out into the village of Kapugal, causing a flood of pressure and softening the area floor. In order to protect nature and the villagers and to address the victims, we respectfully submit to the opening of "Meclis research" under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Internal Law. [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 16) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 20) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] The Beding Termic Plant has been operating since 1982. Eskihisar, Tınaz, Karayaka, Yeşlebagos, Turkey Coal Corporations are powered by the plant's low-calorie, high-altering 15,000 tonnes of coal from the region. The energy produced is transmitted to many sites in the Aegean region. The plant is four kilometers from the Yaten County Center. Ashes from the thermal plant are being emptied in the "strength mountain reform area" in the valley of the town of Bakkamaktepe, in the valley of Cheeselitepe, about 2 km southwest of the plant, at the end of the Yaten plain, about a mile northwest of Kakubağ Village. On top of the ash, the thermal plant's cooling water is given to leak water. So the water used in the ash suppression already contains "dirters." The water that is already dirty is contaminated after it is poured into the ash, and it becomes even more polluted and mingles with the water of the pond. As a result of the mountain of ash corrections, millions of cubic metres of water were poured into the area. One of the main problems is the supply of millions of cubic metres of water used in mountain reforms. Over the years, millions of cubic metres of underground water were used at the thermal plant, and a lake was stored in this area. All that water being pulled out of the ground, "1. It is clear that the Oysan Plain, which is a degree of earthquake region, may have a negative effect on the Plains of Yatten, that there may be a slight concussion and that the Kapoor Village will be flooded with millions of cubic metres of water, and that the Plains of Bedan, which owns fertile farmland, will be underwater. Underground water is used in agricultural activities on the Plains of Beden. There is a strong underground water reserve in the region. In the area of the lake, which was formed as a result of "the mountain rehabilitative work," the ground appears to be "passable" from the wells that have been drilled earlier. And as a result of observations and research conducted by experts, the water in the ash pond is proven to be mixed into underground water. As a result, heavy metals such as "cadminium, lead, mangan, iron" were found in the water that formed the ash pond, and in addition to the amount of artefacts, "cyanide" was detected. At the same time, analysis observed that the value of water pH is around 12 (sometimes). A bitter water with PH 12 is neither suitable for drinking nor agricultural irrigation. High pH fluids have an inflammatory properties of the human body, much less metal. The high water pH is also a beacon for ammonia and ammonium in the water. Ammonia helps clean the silverware, remove the fabric stains. It's used as a burner in medicine. It's not used to drink or water a field. The villagers provide water from wells opened in the region. He drinks water using a cleaning device that has money. Even in the village area, using a decontamination device to drink water reveals the state of this country when a peasant pays to drink water. The poor peasant who can't build a device is doomed to a slow and painful death to struggle with disease. In talks between us and the local people, both by experts, they express that they taste metal drinking water, that water swells, that they experience burning, cramps, and similar complaints in language. We don't just drink water and take these toxic substances into the body. The water here is also mixed with the agricultural waters of the Yathing Plain. Plants, like humans, collect these substances in their bodies. When humans and other creatures eat these plants, they naturally take them into their bodies and collect them. In light of this information, we have discovered that there has been an environmental disaster here as a result of our investigations and experts' views on our visit to Kapudağ Village, where the waste ashes of the plant that threatens the Yatan district of Mugla. The people of the bed and the region are in danger. There must be an immediate measure in the lake of ash and a "Meclis Research" on this matter. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. (9/8) There is a thesis on the extension of the Commission's mandate, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the decision of our Commission, which began its work on 09/07/2014 at its meeting of 16/10/2014, I respectfully submit its mandate on the extension of the Constitution to the 100th and 110th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, starting from 27/10/2014. The commission, which failed to complete the investigation within two months of Article 110 of the Civil Code, will be given a new and final period of two months. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0026par0325	Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief statement on my position according to Article 60.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0326	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0026par0329	Mr. President, in about a month and a half from now, this December 17th and 25th will be a year after the corruption and theft. In order to cover up these incidents, Cemil Cicek first tried to cover up corruption and theft by abusing his duty, covering up the arguments sent by prosecutors. After that, a motion for an investigation came, the AKP for a long time did not give a member not to run this investigation commission. After that, after this investigation commission was set up, the villagers who now want to extend the time, should not only see MPs abuse their mandate... the main goal was to get past the March 30 elections, the election of the President of the Republic of August 10th, and they succeeded. This peasant has committed the greatest corruption and abused his duty, committed crimes. Although there is a series of compasses, he has returned the files to the prosecutors. The prosecutors, as well as the prosecutors they found in their opinion, have destroyed some of the documents in this file.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0331	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0027par0332	Dear President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0333	No, I haven't opened it yet. What's this about?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0027par0334	This is about your statement to this vote...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0335	No voting, for your information.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0027par0336	In terms of information... I'd like to make a small statement about it according to the 60th article.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0025par0337	I've given you the 60th article before, but now I'm making you a promise. He's done with the 60th article. I give you my word. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0027par0340	Sir, thank you, my dear President, my respects. Regarding this statement, you'll appreciate that the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has issued a mistrial. The case came here to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, while the Chief Public Prosecutor withdrew the incident due to this lack of office decision. However, the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has reconsidered the case regarding the December 17th corruption and bribery operation -- a power, wherever it says, whatever power -- and decided not to follow it last Friday. As a result, it's a legal scandal. The Minister is also a lawyer. So if a Republican Prosecutor's Office and a court has ruled out a mistrial, if they've taken over the case, they shouldn't be handling that case again, and this statement is now in Parliament. Now, on the one hand, in Parliament, the same D.A. is renegotiating the decision he made without duty and making the decision not to follow. In terms of ending this scandal, we say...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0028par0345	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0027par0346	... is the order of the justice state. I urge the government, again, to focus on this matter, if possible, in order to ensure this order.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0028par0347	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Members of parliament, members of parliament, members of lawmakers who are not members of the political party's group have also fallen into membership in the Commission for the Equality of Women and Men's Opportunity and the Commission for Public Economic Oppositions. It is Monday (November 3rd 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. There is another thesis of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; I will have it read and voted: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of Europe shall be held on 26 October 2014 in Rome, the capital of Italy, where the Council of Europe shall be held on 26 October 2014, according to the 9th Amendment clause of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a statement saying that some members of parliament should be allowed to read separately and submit to your votes: ▪ To the General Assembly of Turkey's Grand National Assembly The number of lawmakers listed under their names has been approved at a meeting of the Presidential Court on October 13, 2014. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. Pain MP Fatma Salman, due to his alibi 19 days from 06/05/2014, All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion: I'll have it read and processed, and I'll put it to your votes: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Tuesday (21/10/2014). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The amendment's proposals 645, 240 and 640, which are part of the Commission's Commissions and Proposals of Laws (Secrets of Law), and the drafting of other legislations (Seconds of Law), are listed in the order of 4, 5 and 6 (Secrets of Law), and the order of other tasks according to this order; On Tuesday (October 21st 2014) until the meeting of oral questions and other audit issues, which are not discussed on the agenda, and the talks of Law Proposal No. 645 in the joint, were met on the part of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. On Wednesday (October 22, 2014) until the completion of the talks of the Law Bill 240 rows in the Unification on Wednesday (October 22, 2014); On Thursday (October 23, 2014) until the completion of the talks of Bill 640, in the merger of Thursday (October 23, 2014); It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00, they will continue to work until the daily schedules are completed. On Thursday, October 30, 2014, The Law Bill 640 was proposed to be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. The first word in favour of the Council's proposal is Mr. Ali Özgündüz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0029par0403	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favor of the Council of Counsellors, but I take it as a member of parliament that knows the case by speaking to the General Assembly about the non-instruction decision on the December 17th corruption investigation that is on the agenda of certain Turkey. Dear friends, the republic's prosecutor says in his decision of non-observation: "Sir, this is a profit-profit agreement, but there are no elements of bribery because there are no bribes, as there is no bribe agreement between the ministers and the four ministers of your investigation commission, and Reza Sarraf, who distribute this food, to be done or not to be done." Secondly, sir, the court's technical surveillance and surveillance are not in line with listening decisions, so I don't count them as evidence. It is, of course, the second argument is a very dangerous argument. Even if the court's decisions were wrong, they'd have to be applied in the state of law, otherwise there'd be chaos. Tomorrow another prosecutor will take another court decision, one verdict of conviction, you have violated the law, you have violated the right to defend yourself. Now, sir, is this really just listening or listening decisions? It's not, guys. I mean, I've shown it to you before. Now, your own minister, Zafer Çağan, has already agreed to the 700,000 hour issue, says: I like this watch, Reza Sarraf bought it, sent it to me, I paid him -- here, he showed him a document -- and this is my property statement. It's worth 300,000 francs. Then shouldn't that be asked? Minister, Mr. Zafer, do you carry 300,000 francs in your pocket as cash, or do you have a bank account? When did you transfer from what account? Show me a receipt of this. Or did you buy this watch on your arm, the $700,000 watch from your TL account? I'll show you again. This famous watch is 700,000 lira watches. Well, that needs to be asked. Have these been identified, delivered to the chief of staff? Yeah, I'm sure he does, too. Dear friends, have these coins come out of the Halkbank General Manager's house? He's out. It doesn't exist. It doesn't say that. So, what you've been saying from the beginning, the government, or rather, not yours, is that I praise your group, some members of the government and those involved. Not all members of the government. I've told you before, again, Riza Sarraf says in a speech: "Ya, this Mehmet Simsek and Ali Babacan are not like the others, these are strange men. Therefore, I thanked Mehmet Simsek and Ali Babacan for not being involved in this incident, for being clean. Your two ministers, they're your ministers, but I'm saying the man involved in corruption and theft shouldn't be taken care of. So do you have these coins? Yeah, that's for sure. Is the money gone with this suitcase, $2 million, $2 million, $1.5 million? He's gone. The prosecutor says it's not there. Does it say, "Dublaj, montage." No. This is the truth, but the minister who received this money says it is not a bribery charge because he did not receive it for a job that entered the field of duty. In terms of who? It's a charge of bribery in terms of Reza Sarraf. Why? The deal on bribes, because it's not a private deal. If so, there will be other crimes. I mean, you see, sir, it's an assessment of taking an illegal gift or abuse of influence, abuse of office. Now, this Parliamentary Investigation Commission, established here, especially right now with the ministers, and this Commission, which has been extended its mandate for two months today, needs to pay attention to that. I mean, sir, is this going into your line of duty... I mean, for example, the Egemen Donation. The servant at the house of the Sovereign Donor, the one who was delivered to Marina, the one delivered in the chocolate box, is the $500,000! It's said by the prosecutor: why was this given to Egemen Dona? Because, here's a story, sir, about Reza Sarraf, there's a contract on a story against her, or somewhere, or there's a job on her father's visa. Such matters do not constitute a bribery charge because they are not part of the assignment of the Sovereign Dona. Because it is not a matter of duty. It's abuse of office, it's abuse of influence, whatever... who's going to judge it? He'll judge it. The prosecutor's non-obsession decision does not refer to ministers without guilt, friends, read well. There are these, they're stable, but in terms of crime, in terms of bribery, because the prosecutor isn't investigating the ministers. Who's the prosecutor investigating? The minister's children, Reza Sarraf, the general manager of the People's Bank. He says to these coins found at the home of the General Manager of the People's Bank: "Obsistence to the Law of Aid." Remember, they said: "We will build an Imam-haki high school, we will raise help." There will continue to be opposition to the Gathering Law. Now, it's funny, of course, to raise money with illegal money. What was he going to do, sir, write a receipt? Dear friends, is there a case of 1.5 tons of gold from Ghana? Yes, you do. Is that correct? It's absolutely true. Says who? He says it's your Ministry. Investigators of your Customs Ministry say: "There is a report of the inspectors from Gana/investigators" in the file -- 1.5 tons of merineral sample, a worthless mine, a sample, gold in the dorm, which appears to have come to the Ataturk Airport and taken control, and then 1.208 kilos out of the building. Where's the 282 kilos of gold? There's no gold worth $16,500,000. Is it steady? It's stable. It says your Ministry, it says your government's inspectors. What happened to these gold pieces, 282 kilos of gold? Is there no opposition to the Trafficking Law? I do. Sir, why did the gold go, how did it go? So with false documents, the entrance of the ministers, the introduction of one of your Ministry, the undersecretary of your Customs, the introduction of the Chief of Staff of Zafer Çağlan, and this was sent back to Dubai with irregular documents, but it didn't go back to Dubai again, it went at 1.208 kilos, 295 kilos are missing right now. That's why your Ministry has issued a fine to the interested firm. It's stable. Sir, I've been a prosecutor for a long time, you know. As the prosecutor's office, when the thieves came across us, we'd split the thieves in two. One: simple, petty thieves, so he's gone as a pickpocket, stole money from a citizen's pocket, smashed the car's window, stole his stereo, broke into his house, did something. When these people came, they'd be humbled, so they'd plead guilty, somehow they'd be brought to justice. Usually they'd admit it, so we did it. They'd say something like that. Is the fingerprint yours? It's mine. There's nothing to do. Simple, petty thieves.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0030par0414	There's dirty thieves!
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0029par0415	And we, gentlemen, saw thieves, white-collar thieves. This is how much export I've made for this country -- this is how much tax -- this is how much money I've made for this country. That's how they sold themselves, saying, "I'm creating so many jobs." Now, God save this country from such thieves. Whatever happened to this country happened to these thieves. The problem is here, it's not just theft, it's thieves. At this time, the Grand Assembly must also rescue this House from such thieves. He says: "You must feed the ministers. Now, if the prosecutor calls it a gift, sir, he does not enter his office, he does not have a bribe agreement, and therefore there are no elements of this bribery charge," says Riza Sarraf; what did Riza Sarraf say here: "My son, whose tip do you give to the officer or not? This is how he sees your ministers." Mr. Prosecutor, did you accept this as a gift, is that why you said it was a gift? Again -- the son of a minister's brother-in-law -- when he's appointed minister -- he says, "Don't say his name now" -- the power has come to us. The E says it must be fed, it must be fed from the beginning. And the prosecutor says that the friend doesn't see all this evidence, and he makes a different interpretation, or rather, it says that there are evidences. He says that they are stable. He says, "OKy, but because there is no special agreement between these people for bribery crimes, therefore I make a decision that there are no elements of the crime and that there are irregular court decisions." But this Parliament is not bound by that decision. I believe the members of the Commission of Investigation will do their job properly, and I salute the Assembly, the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0031par0420	Thank you. Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu of Kayseri MP against the proposal of the Council of Counsellor.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0032par0423	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll tell you this: The Qur'an is printed, it can't be sold, it can't be sold, you know, it's priceless, it just writes the gift. So it's called a gift, but it's actually sold, sold. I guess that's what these things look like. But I'd rather focus on something else than on them. Even though it says "it" against him, we're not against it because we signed, of course, the Council of Counsellor's recommendation. But I would like to point out in particular that, now, in this recent matter of Kobani, statements have been made about the transition of the pursuers through Turkey, and the Foreign Minister has officially confirmed it. You know, he's had an argument about this before, and it was written in the paper exactly as follows, according to Article 92 of the Constitution... which is clear and clear. He says: "In addition to the declaration of war as well as the international agreements or the rules of international courtesy which Turkey is on the side, the Turkish Armed Forces have the authority to be sent to foreign countries or to allow foreign armed forces to be found in Turkey. " I mean, when Turkish Armed Forces speak of the Turkish Armed Forces, there is also the mention of armed forces. As a matter of fact, the Turkish Armed Forces should be sent to foreign countries for cross-border operations and intervention if necessary, and the presence of foreign armed forces in Turkey for the same purposes is not to be passed through Turkey, but to be found in Turkey. Now, dear friends, for several days there have been major problems with the fighting with ISIS in Kobani. From October 6th to October 10th, 113 buildings were burned and destroyed; again 1,177 vehicles were burned; 220 schools were torched and burned; blood centers and some children's nests were burned down, and 36 people were killed according to official records. Of course, during this process, Kobani had sat on the fact that Turkey had not helped him, and therefore a demonstration of the uprising had been conducted; it was a pool of blood, burned, destroyed, and provoked. Dear friends, we have approved the thesis to allow Turkey to create safe zones on its side in Syria, in order to somehow reduce its external effects, if necessary, to resolve immigration and immigration issues; to comfort the Turkish Armed Forces, to comfort the Republic of Turkey. But a Deputy Prime Minister of the Government has come out and we can build a safe zone on the side of Turkey. He made a statement like that. Isn't the Turkish side a safe zone? So...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0033par0430	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0032par0431	I don't know, because it's not in the papers.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0033par0432	He said: He made the same statement, and 19 people got it right, and 1 person got it wrong!
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0032par0433	Mr. Secretary, if it should be retributed, then it should be retributed. Thus, it is said in the press that such a word is said. Now, on the other hand, the Secretary of State has made a statement today, and I don't think that's wrong either. We allowed the Messengers to pass, and some of them passed through Turkey's territory. He said he'd let it happen. Now, there is a completely contrary to the Constitution clause, Article 92, and Article 92 that I have just read, and the Constitutional crime has been committed because the Constitution directly deals with states, not armed forces. ▪ Turkish Armed Forces or foreign armed forces, he says. Now, according to the Constitution, and according to the argument, you cannot allow an Iraqi state-owned military unit to pass through Turkey or come to Turkey, but you cannot allow an armed force that does not belong to the state to be passed through Turkey. In its statement, both the President and the Prime Minister described the PYD as a co-value of the PKK and a terrorist organisation. So Turkey is aiding and abetting a terrorist organization to help? What does that mean? How are you going to pull this off? You have to consider these because a day ago, an hour ago, two hours ago, you're going to say that the NYD is a terrorist organization, like the PKK, and the phone from Obama will change color. Sir, he's thrown 14 tons of weapons at the United States of America's Kobani side.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0034par0438	20 tons.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0032par0439	20? I read 14 tons, that's what I'm saying. Now, friends, if the United States is dealing with the PYD, it means it's also dealing with the PKK. Then who are you cooperating with, and whose words are you acting on? These things need to be cleared up. So, in this operation, unfortunately, as in the past, you've fallen again into major mistakes in foreign policy, you're confused by what you're going to do. Your policy, such as not to interfere with ISIS by putting Assad first or not to interfere with Kobani (Kobani), is that you have come up with such a reason to think that you cannot act against the United States and the European Union anyway; in a different policy, with a different policy, in fact, the United States has played with Turkey. So, depending on that, you're making an armed force that you don't know who to turn to tomorrow support the PYD on the Turkish border. Judging by the explanations, sir, we can't go with weapons registered to the United Nations, we can't go. How can you guarantee that if that's the case, you're going to be in even worse shape, through Iraq, the transfer of Iraqi Kurds, the pedigrees to this area? How can you guarantee that they will not fall into PKK's hands when he leaves them there? You can't do that. I don't think you'll be able to handle it if it comes to Turkey tomorrow. Therefore, it would be helpful for you to reconsider. But again, I would like to make a specific point: The 92nd article of the Constitution, even though it is over Ceylanpınar, does not allow it to enter and cross over Turkey's territory, and in return, the Constitutional crime is committed, and you will have to pay for it eventually. In this regard, I make it my duty to warn you specifically, so don't make a mistake, my friends. Look, how are you going to determine how many ISIS militants are among the 1,800,000 people from Syria to Turkey today, how many PYD militants are there, how many terrorists in general? If the bombs start to go off tomorrow, who will account for it in Turkey, and how will you handle it? And you don't know how many terrorist organizations you've identified as the other terrorist organizations in Syria, outside ISIS and PKK, and how many of them are in Turkey, as you pointed out in your thesis. ISIS is a terrorist organisation, a PYD terrorist organisation and an extension of the PKK. That's what you can see in your flag. So, if you refer to them both as terrorist organizations during the clash of two terrorist organizations and as a terrorist organization, you need to see what process you're doing by helping one of the terrorist organizations, how you've fallen into unlawful conduct, and you're sitting at the table with what you call a terrorist organization. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0035par0445	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. In favour of the advisory board's proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat, please come in.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0036par0448	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to express my opinion in favour of the Council of Counsellors' proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, this week's working schedule of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is being organised by the joint proposal of our four political parties. According to this, hopefully today, we will discuss the proposal for amendments to the law on the law passed by Samuel's MP Mehmet Ali Okur and his friends, the proposal for the adoption of Gebze, the Gebze University of Gebze. I already wish this university to be blessed with the good fortune of the family, the education community, and our country. Tomorrow, on Wednesday (October 22nd), parliament is advised to continue its work until further talks are completed and the bill of law on the Order of Electronic Trade is put on the agenda. Again, this law, you know, is one of the most important and urgent laws in terms of the development of technology, especially in terms of the exchange of legal infrastructure in the Internet environment. This, hopefully, will be held tomorrow (October 23rd), and on Thursday (October 23rd), it will be recommended that our Parliament work in view of the Istanbul Centre's Charter. I look forward to your support for our proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0037par0452	Thank you. Mr. Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP against the advisory board proposal, please come in.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0038par0454	Mr. President, lawmakers, one of the most important agendas today is the cover-up of the corruption operation that began in December 17th. Dear friends, there was no, there was no, there was no, there was no, it was a fake plan. Hundreds of articles have been published, hundreds of articles, comments, television programs have been made, but in the end, there has been no clear, clear, apocalyptic outcome. I don't want to go into these details, so what's written, what's drawn? What's done? Who said that? But what we come up with in the greatest allegations of corruption in the history of the republic is just a big public dissatisfaction. I repeat: there was, there wasn't. (It was true, it was wrong.) The most important thing that came beyond their claims may have been closed in this file form, but when, at any given date, Turkey will open these files again one day. Of course, if there was nothing, why did the four ministers resign? So, first of all, these four ministers, if they're actually cleared, they need to be reinstated, even if it's just for a day. Second: A minister who resigned on the same day, Mr. Erdoğan Bayraktar, appeared before the televisions. We -- in my opinion, we did nothing wrong, but whatever we did -- we did it under his direction -- by naming the name of Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan at that time. Now, dear friends, in a democratic state, and in a state of 80 million people, there are over 1 million, 2 million, 3 million tribal states in the world, and there are states ruled by phony democracies -- and in a state that claims to be an example in its region, to be a leader, you can't simply pass those claims. Phone calls that mention the existence of $1 billion, and the descriptions of a so-called businessman involved in the same work can't be so simple. No one in this parliamentary platform or in Turkey has made a incriminating statement concerning Mr. Mehmet Simsek and Ali Babacan, who are most involved in these financial relations, so to speak, holds the state's vault. Why wasn't he found? In the so-called business statement published in these operations again, the so-called "tapes," these men are very strange men, and we couldn't penetrate them, he said. So, dear friends, before you go and go about it so much, before you talk too much about it, and then the first and last thing I want to say: Dear friends, let's put all this stuff aside, let alone the truth, the falsehood, and if you love your God, what business do you have with this child? What are you doing with these in the VIPs? What are you doing sitting next to them in government protocol? So if you look at yourself and ask yourself, what are you doing with these people if you love God, based on the adjectives you carry, as statesmen, and the importance of the positions you sit in? They ask the person, they say, "Tell me who your friend is. " The people you're traveling with, the people you're sitting with, the people you're eating with, the people you're joking with, look around if it's not consistent with the weight of where you're standing, especially if it's so dark, if it's so dark, you have to sit next to them for miles. So, my dear friends, once again, nothing has been cleared, nothing has been closed, nothing has convinced the conscience of the public, nothing has. These files will be reopened at any time, review what you've done with your consciousness and account. Dear friends, I have addressed you again and again from this bench, and brought to the attention that the construction changes in Istanbul, the screaming of an entire Istanbul, have been looted. Believe me, there haven't been so many raids in Istanbul since Byzantine. As a brother who lived in Istanbul since he was a child and lived for twenty-five years, and spent all summer vacations in Istanbul and Boğaziçi, my heart is burning, I feel like an Istanbulian. And I asked for something very simple in the Parliament's research proposal for these actions in Istanbul, and I said, "Who are the first owners of the plots, the islands, the faftas, since 1994, under your responsibility? So, please explain to me who are the owners of these zoning changes before they were made, and who are the owners after the zoning changes were made. And again, we're doing something very right, and there's no corruption in them, and we've done all these changes according to a certain rule. If you say so, then how much is the rate that's going on around here? I mean, what's the value before the development change, what's the value after the zoning change? That's what I asked. Three: I said, "Friends, if you're so sure of what you're doing, "then let's put a zoning change into a zoning tax." I also offered a law on this. Let a commission be set up, and what is the value of that parcel before the change in development, and what is its value next; and let 20 per cent of the rate of that amount enter into the treasury of the state. You objected to what I said, and I'm speaking to the lawmakers here, and I'm speaking to a few friends who are listening to me -- you raised your hands and said no. But today Mr. Ali Babacan came in front of the cameras, and he's been talking about this rent tax for two months. But when does he mention it? After all of Istanbul was sold. Have you ever been to Esenyurt, dear friends? Have you ever seen such a disgrace? Have you seen what happened out there? But we turned around, and two years after I proposed this law again, Mr. Ali Babacan, Mr. Mehmet Simsek has come to talk about this debt. My dear friends, again, I confronted the businessman who cursed the mother of the nation at these events in the VIP hall recently, and I ran into him, and he was on a pilgrimage -- of course, how he got into the VIP, and he was with the AKP MPs who had gone on a separate pilgrimage. He said: "You speak too much against us." No, you give this account. I said one. Two: "You are a businessman, you are a 35-year-old engineer -- says so, I am a business figure." You say, "I got all of this right." I spoke to Mr. Buli Yıldırım, who is the Minister of Transport from the Parliament's platform; this is Hasankeyf Bridge 1,090 meters; the first Bosporus Bridge is 1,070 meters, taller than the Bosporus Bridge. Give it half price, and the Diyarbakır businessmen also met all these technical and financial conditions, and I called it a suitor. I said, "Well, he didn't give a satisfactory answer." You know what he said to me when he came back? Of course, one of those bridges is $130 million. Is this a job for me? I'm already doing this to your satisfaction. Don't get tired, don't enjoy it. Come on, look, there are businessmen who can do this for half the price. Here, dear friends, look who you're walking with, who you're on pilgrimage with, who you're dealing with. Therefore, I address the MPs within the AKP, and I address the friends with a conscience: If you do not say these things today, stop. If you do not raise your voice, believe me, you will suffer a great deal in the conscience that remains tomorrow. My respects.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0039par0468	Thank you. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Charter on my Law Proposal (2/62), I respectfully submit the need to be processed. The bidder is Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0040par0480	Mr. President, we have proposed a law on the removal of the victims caused by the coup attempt on September 12, 1980. In fact, we gave it to him in the 23rd term, but in the 23rd term, it was contaminated on the shelves of the Justice Commission. And we gave the 24th term, and came to the end of the 24th term. However, the Justice and Development Party's ruling, which expressed every opportunity to exploit the public's response to the coup on September 12, 1980, has somehow ignored the offer. The law proposals the AKP lawmakers made to the Commission within 24 hours are still on the shelves. Now, I'm not going to explain this law in very detail, but the 1st article: the state of the Republic of Turkey accepts the coup of September 12, 1980 as an act against democracy, law and nation. The state apologizes to its practices, its results and its personal and social breakdowns, and to its families and to its damaged individuals and their families during the coup in September 12, 1980. Now, I'm asking my fellow AKP MPs: What part of this clause is it touching you? Why won't you accept it? On the one hand, you're against the coup d'état of September 12, 1980, but on the other hand, you don't support the understanding of the coup d'état of September 12, 1980 and trying to destroy the entire coup law. Now Mr. Prime Minister -- the current President, the Prime Minister of that period -- Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan couldn't speak from crying at the AKP group meeting on July 20, 2010. He says he will answer to the September 12th -- in his own words -- and he says: "Here they have executed the leftists and the rightists to balance. He talks about Mustafa Pehlivanlı, Necdet Adalı, Erdal Eren. Of course, in the September 12, 2010 referendum, these abuses were being made to make the Constitution say yes, but we thought that Mr. Prime Minister was sincere and we offered such a law on September 12th, and I believe that was the case of Suat Kılıç, the group's deputy leader at that time, and we met with him; and so did Justice Minister of Justice Mr. Bekir Bozdag. They said that such a law offer was the right law offer, but they wouldn't accept it. In fact, my dear friends, look, this is the brochure "The Common Sin of the Political Institution" by the Justice Commission Chairman Mr. Pestilence. It says here that in the matter of dealing with coups, Mr. Nicema says in the same matter, that the democratic will is dominant in the same matter: the Law Proposal for the Resolving of the Impact Process of September 12, 1980, of Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. (The Constitutional Commission's 2010 t, 2/767 basis). The proposal, as far as I can tell, is one of the first or first ones to have concrete suggestions in post-plot rehabilitation. If Mr. Mahir Ünal listens, he'll be fine.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0041par0487	What's up?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0040par0488	Look, I'm telling you what Mr. Philima, the President of the Justice Commission, mentioned in this book about this offer, Mr. Ünal. In the name of the coup, your Justice Commission President says: "The First or First Amendment of Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk" (born September 12, 1980) is the Law Proposal for the Resolving of Victims of the Impact Process." (ÇT/TK) As far as I can tell, the first or first article of the offer is historical. he goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on He says, he says the offer is on the books of the Justice Commission. Now, if you really don't want the anti-plotism just to establish your own sovereignty, if you want to answer to the coup law, I don't understand why you would object to such an offer of law. This bill goes here in an hour when you want it. So, the historical sentence here is that I read again: the state of the Republic of Turkey accepts the coup of September 12, 1980 as an act against democracy, law and nation. I think we should take this offer on the agenda if you accept this historical verdict. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0042par0493	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Süleyman Çelebi of İstanbul, please come in.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0043par0495	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. Our friend has proposed an important law. Some of you have listened, some of you have not listened. In fact, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, Congressman of Mersin, the proposal for the law of our friend, has always been a law proposal for the evaluations you expressed here on this stand. Now, before, you know, there's been another coup commission in this House. Mr. Bostanci also served as a reporter on this commission, and now he's the deputy leader of the group. We worked for hours, we worked for days. It wasn't enough, but there was a report. Not a single step has been taken in this House to make this report necessary so far. We're writing pages. So the establishment of commissions, the formation of reports, doesn't mean anything to this House. Write it down, set it up, throw it away. And it seems very clear here that these commissions are for this, that there is no goal of actually dealing with these coups. What does this bill suggest, dear friends? Look, you've returned a lot of foundations here. I'm going to refer to you as a supporter, you've returned the property of a lot of the foundation, but even though we've said the property of the TCU-DER over the years, even though we've opened a special paragraph in that Commission of Impacts, the ministers here, the Minister of Justice, the Deputy Prime Minister of Justice, while these laws are being discussed, we're going to fix this law as soon as possible, and we're going to fix this injustice. Despite what he said, those words have been written on ice, and have never, ever been taken into consideration for any of the changes of that law, my dear friends here. Now, on September 12th, we're going to see that the AKP's power -- I'm telling you very clearly -- is fed from here, it's only doing its policy, but it shows its approach to this. In the next vote, we'll see it again with your votes on the bill offered by Ali Riza Ozturk, and we'll expose you once again in public. Therefore, my dear friends, the 12th of September continues. Look, our friend Onur Yaser of ODTÜ has committed suicide because he couldn't stand police torture, dear friends. Her mother Hatice Can committed suicide with her. Why did he do it? Because they couldn't stand police torture. Police torture is under way at the moment. The legal arrangement that is now being brought in is to make these and similar tortures more common to police practices and to keep them under duress. On the one hand, Erdal Eren is talking about the AKP, and on the other hand, the responsibility in front of 14-year-old Berkin Elvan is still not over. In this sense, I strongly suggest that the bride at least be given the property of the TCU-Der... here is the law. The injustices that have been done so far, and our Commission's report of the coups commission, at least raise a hand as acting group president, and remain loyal. Come, look, this bill is about that. I believe your group will raise their hand if they raise their hand, especially when you raise theirs, especially when you raise theirs. I say do a good job, come, take this test to a good place once again today. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit01spe0044par0503	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 6th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Central Charter and the Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked first. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are in second place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked President of the Turkish Health Institutes and with a law proposal similar to the Law Bill on Changes in Some Laws and Laws, and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Mr. Mehmet Ali Okur and 6 MPs who have been ranked in the fourth place; the Law of the Institutions of Higher Education Act; and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws and Laws; and the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 645 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Metin Baydar.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0045par0024	Mr. President, I'd like to remind you of something on the agenda before I express my views on Law Proposal 645 on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. In order to do what is right or good, we call it a conscience that allows a person to view his own actions, purposes, and character morally. I'd like to ask the members of the Justice and Development Party: let's think like you. Okay, December 17th is a coup attempt. All right, it is the decryption of a process between Iran and Turkey, which has earned $8.5 billion in a thousand dollars in a transfer of $260 billion, and the destruction of the state. We get it, that's it. But what are we going to do about the ministers, the children, and the allegations of bribery, alleged at $8.5 billion? How are we supposed to deal with these serration allegations? Ten months after the start of the December 17 investigation, how do we clear our conscience about closing the case without a trial by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office? If the claims are true and we're indifferent, how are we going to answer the questions tomorrow? Ladies and gentlemen of the Justice and Development Party, I leave you with your consciences. When you get in your car for a ride and turn on the ignition, it's almost like there's no one who doesn't look at the gauge of gasoline. With that look, it's already calculated how far you can go with the gas in the tank. Gas is a resource, and it's important for the distance of the vehicle. Even if you have the best vehicle, you can't move if you don't have gas. So, if we think about it for countries, where does the human power go, what level of development get caught? If we create a target for today's advanced manpower, how long will it take to achieve that goal? In fact, we are looking for answers to the question, "Where have we come from, what is the source for the goal that we want to reach? " First, let's consider the framework through the Human Development Report of UNDP, 2014. According to the Human Development Index, which covers 187 countries, Norway ranked first with the highest human development index score. Australia, Switzerland, the Netherlands, the United States, Germany, New Zealand, Canada, Singapore and Denmark have made it to the top 10. As for the latest 10 ▪, Niger, Congo, Central African Republic, Chad, Sierra Leone, Eritrea, Burkina Faso, Burkina, Burundi, Guinea, Mozambique, where life conditions are the hardest to survive. Turkey has held its place between countries that have made high human development by ranking 69, with a value of 0.759. A country considered between the first and the first 20 countries, ranked 69, and those who run the country, must put the hat in front of them and make an evaluation. The report shows that the life expectancy for Turkey is 75.3 years, the average number of years in school is 7.6 years, and the expected period of education is 14.4 years. The numbers I'm about to transfer are important to show you where this is going. Now, with some current data, I'd like to look for answers to the question, "Where from?" First of all, employment data, of course. So let's do the evaluations through these indicators, because the most healthy data we have is TİK data. The export data in 2013 is about 150 billion dollars. Now, we need to make an observation through this data. In Turkey, 25.5 million people worked to achieve this level of production and ultimately the potential for exports. 1.1 million people of employment are illiterate. 1,1 million people can read and write, but they're not grade school graduates. 8.8 million graduates of elementary school, 2.5 million graduates of elementary school. When 2 million secondary school graduates are added to this issue, a total of 15.5 million people have an education only around this elementary level. This structure of employment has increased exports from 50 billion to 150 billion dollars over the last decade. When these figures are roughly assessed, Turkey will be seen to come to the level of production today with a level of secondary school and six educational levels. The average level of employment is still around seven years. Around the elementary school in employment, the total share of the group is 65 per cent. As a country announcing its 2023 bid, Turkey's export target for the 100... is 500 billion dollars for the republic's 100th anniversary. However, there is a fact that with the structure of the job today and the face it has seen, it has only achieved 150 billion dollars. Turkey has reached a level described as an average income. The average income has brought the average human quality to this level. It will be possible to take it further, improve, improve the human factor here, and make it more equipped. It is not possible to increase average income without improving average employment and average human. After all, there is a point that comes with this level of production potential and employment. If new graduates and numerical increases are supported with quality, results will be possible. Sadly, the number of people who have completed their doctoral education, not even 5,000 a year, has brought our country to the vision of 2023. A country such as Turkey, which has a goal, a claim and a purpose, will not only improve its economic indicators. The development of social indicators, culture of political environment and democracy, should be a priority in this framework. We need to invest in youth in order to increase national income, which is estimated to be around $10,000 per person, to the level of $25,000. The Human Development Report also includes an index on perceptions of governance. Do you trust national governance? Yes. It makes sense that the answer to the question is 53 percent of the ratio in our country. This report also shows the potential limits of political power, which are consistent with political crystallization. When the indicator of improvement is determined by average income, it is important to keep this stage of average human beings out of sight. Economic development will bring human development with it. Exiting the average income trap will be possible to escape the average human trap and invest in our people and youth. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party, we have supported our universities to this day in every step to increase both their number and their qualifications, and we will continue to do so. In the first 30 cities that I signed, the law, which includes the establishment of 41 thematic universities, is still pending and continuing negotiations on the commission. I have to say that it's a distinct joy to see one of the universities that was asked to be opened up in that law proposal come to life here, at least as a name. Dear lawmakers, what is there in our proposal for the establishment of 41 thematic universities that continue to wait and which are important to our country? Let me remind you: the province of Afyonkarahisar has made significant developments in the health sector as a result of both investments and health policies. For the continuity of this development, the university of health sciences in Afyonkarahisar will be a sound decision. Again, the establishment of a university under the name of the university of health sciences in the province of Bursa will provide the need for medical personnel, particularly the doctor of our country. The University of Health Sciences of İzmir Bergama will also be integrated into the development of intensive thermal activity and spa tourism in the region and the mission of Bergama (from ancient times to modern times). A university of health sciences to be established in Bergama will combine this mission with practice. Ankara Beypazari has been trying to implement tourism-based projects in recent years. It has a structure that is compatible with parts intended for alternative types of tourism. This structure will be able to contribute to our country's tourism with the establishment of a tourist university for Ankara Beypazarı. An agricultural university in our slap province could easily turn the university into one of the advanced agricultural universities in the future because of the developed agricultural opportunities of the province. Ankara Kızılcahamam has a suitable nature for sports activities. Closeness to Ankara is the relative advantage of the district. In addition to increasing the recognition of the region, the university of sports sciences will also contribute substantially to the development of the region. A design university in Bursa İngegöl will further brand the pros of being in charge of both furniture and textile industry throughout Turkey. The University of Natural Sciences in Isparta Eğirdir, Turkey's orchard, will help create infrastructure for soil-related production technologies to increase the value of addition in the district, and will increase production, prosperity and social activity in this area. The university of social sciences in Isparta Yalvaç will provide the collection of Jalvac from history to become a center of attraction in the field of social sciences. The presence of both military and civilian airports in Eskişehir shows the necessity of having high-speed trains, a structure of land and railway transport, the establishment of a transport university in our city. The knowledge of Ankara's bureaucratic structure will be provided by Ankara's University of Laws. The university of entrepreneurship and technology in Denizli will also enable the management of the sense of entrepreneurship that locals have, and that entrepreneurial potential will take action. Again, a tourist university in İzmir will provide a huge advantage for implementation by combining the history of the beautiful İzmir, and its life form, which is integrated with its sea, with advanced transport, education and health care. The naval university in Mersin and Sinop will provide an educational infrastructure for us to become a powerful sea country in the Mediterranean and in the Black Sea. In Zonguldak, the university of earth sciences will ensure better assessment of the region's underground wealth. In this way, scientific research and related practices can be done to prevent mining disasters in the region. The University of Information Technology must be established in Kobeeli, which is located in the corridor of Technology and RD. The University of Fine Arts in Tekirdağ will make it easier to express the multicultural structure of the province. The agricultural and animal-based economic structure owned by the Van (Van) led industrial development in the province to the food industry path. An educational institution that will be an expert in the field with the university of natural sciences will undoubtedly play an important role in the development of the region. The establishment of a university of tourism, a university of beautiful arts in Bodrum, will help boost the national tourism policy of both the region and the country. In Gaziantep, the university of entrepreneurial and technology will open the way for the best assessment of the Indian properties of the province. Aviation universities in Kayseri, Erzurum, Malatya, Kütahya, and Isparta will provide the basis for an aviation culture that is unique to our country, providing the growth of qualified elements needed by our aviation sector. The tourist university and agricultural university in Antalya will make our province the center of attraction in the Mediterranean, and the controlled economic power that tourism and agriculture will create will make our country the only and largest force in the Mediterranean. With the establishment of the Nazilli Sumer entrepreneurship and technology university in Aydın Nazilli, Nazilli will be considered among the two provinces in which entrepreneurship such as Denizli and Aydın is high and close to the port of İzmir. The establishment of the University of Milet Social Sciences and Natural Sciences in Aydın Söke will be assessed as the rich vegetation of the Fivefinger Mountains and its suitable climate conditions increase agricultural diversity in the region, and its involvement in tourism will also create an opportunity for natural research and tourism. Also, the founder of philosophy, Thales the Millet, will be re-remembered by this university. It will increase the tourism potential of the Kusada, the founding of the University of Tourism in Aydın Kusada, and will make the development of potential very important. The University of Agriculture and Industry, which will be set up in Iconia, will prevent us from asking Patriot from Holland, which is equal to its area. The agricultural university in Adana -- the fertile plains -- will turn cotton into a product exported from an imported product that will contribute to both the public and the country's economy. In Yalova, the university of natural sciences will assess the development of adornment plant production and beekeeping, creating a natural environment for R&amp;D activities. The University of Economics and Industry, which will be established in Manisa Turgutlu, will ensure the city's proximity to a metropole such as Izmir, is very close to the transport network, and is able to use its economy to raise qualified employees in economic and business areas. The University of Health Sciences, which will be established in Edirne, will allow the development and advanced work of the province that provides health services to the Balkans and Thrace. Finally, the establishment of a university of natural sciences in Sakarya Gayve will make Geyve important, not only in the growing of agricultural products, but also in the production and analysis of information and technological input needed for the development of these products. Our proposal for the establishment of Veysel Karani medical school at the University of Siirt remains on the Commission. A university hospital to be built here will be a regional health centre that can serve not only Siirt, Şırnak, Hakkari, Bitlis, but also Northern Iraq. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you some of my suggestions that I would like to discuss with you about universities and that it is necessary to begin the discussion. I'm afraid colleges don't have owners. While academic staff are underpaid, no one hears the voice of the SEC when the salary hike for experts is forgotten in the arrangement to be made. The ECHR must be removed immediately, a higher education ministry that will provide planning and coordination of higher education must be established. The universities need to be financially autonomous with a bag of money, to get a budget from the government based on the number and quality of students he raises every year, and to be able to freely use the resources he creates. He has to decide how to spend and invest. For administrative autonomy, trustees should be formed at state universities and open to discussion of who the trustee committee should be made up of. Academic autonomy must be guaranteed. Higher education and youth campaigns must be initiated, all state and foundation university fees must be paid by the state. To protect young people from the direction of certain groups, the number of dorms in all universities must be increased and the dorms should be free for students. Public transport should be free for all college students and students. As I end my words here, the Republican People's Party Group states that we support changing the name of the university that exists under the name Gebze Technical University, my love and respect. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0046par0082	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0047par0086	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the High School Institutions Act No. 645, and the Proposal of the Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. I salute you all. This proposal is intended to build a university in Gebze, the 2nd largest district of my constituency district, Kopeli. Gebze is a town with a population of more than 400k and more than most of our provinces. Its population is growing a little bit more every day. When we look at the map, Gebze is the nearest district to Istanbul, almost on a transit route. About 200 million vehicles pass through Gebze, due to its logistical properties. The districts of İstanbul, near Gebze, and the districts of Darica, Dilova, and Gebze, around Gebze, are about 500,000 students who graduated from the upper secondary schools in Pendik, Sultanbeyli, Eagle and Tuzla. Even considering this painting alone, it is a necessary need for Gebze to be made a university. When we look at Turkey's population, there are two universities in cities much smaller than Gebze, and Gebze has already earned the university. I passed the matter on to the Minister of National Education with a question motion in June 2013, and so far I haven't received any response. See, at the time, I asked Mr Nabi Avcı, who was also an educator, why is there still a university in Konia, when the 5th university is being set up for the city? Are more than 1,600,000 people seen living in this industrial city than a second university? Has Gebze University been abandoned that the ruling party promised but still failed? If not, when is this university planned to be built, and when is it intended to open its doors to its students? I asked him, "If the University of Gebze has been abandoned, what is the plan to replace this university? As I was saying earlier, I didn't get any answers from Mr. National Minister of Education, but today we're discussing the proposal for the establishment of Gebze Technical University, the ruling party. We as a group support this offer that we've said many times before, but we can't get it on the agenda, but it's true that the ruling party has done one of its best jobs, a beautiful election investment. Gebze was promised the university after the 2011 elections by the Justice and Development Party. This statement has been postponed for three years. However, the government brings it to the agenda of Parliament less than eight months before the election. We all know it's one of the best things the Justice and Development Party has ever done. In the three years we've been in the legislature, was it really difficult to bring this proposal to the Assembly General Assembly? Of course it wasn't, but to you, you had important work to do, you were too busy flattering the PKK people, you were too busy making their mothers, martyr fathers cry, you were trying to hand over the southeast to the terrorist organization, you had to fulfill your mission to kill justice. If you did good for the country and for the nation, who would fill the shoeboxes, who would reset the money, and who would lie in front of that charlatan called Reza? You're trying to make me forget your corruption, but you'll never forget it. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, even though it's late to be a university in Gebze, it's a proper practice, but when we look at the clauses of the proposal, we see that there are flaws. If there is a university in Gebze, it is absolutely imperative that there be a medical school at the university. It is imperative that the capital of industry has a medical school at the university in the city's second largest district. Like Dilova, there's always a medical school at a university for a neighbor of a county where cancer cases are skyrocketing. From what I can see from the law proposal, Gebze Technical University is scheduled to co-operate closely with TBITAK. I don't, frankly, recommend cooperation with TÜBITAK because this power has destroyed a distinguished institution, such as TÜBITAK, as other institutions have. THE state of TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) is pathetic, and reports of its recent signature are evident. Mr. Erdogan is an institution that has signed a scandal calling reports from TÜBITAK. The master of the business, all sound engineers, found the report amusing. American and European experts did not comment on the report. The decision was made after the feelings of the Minister of Industry and Trade, which TÜBITAK had been committed to. The main reason why I asked Gebze to not cooperate with TÜBITAK is because of the appointment made to this institution. To give a single example, the deputy director of the National Academic Network and Information Centre of TÜBITAK is appointed director of the Ankara Zoo. It's obvious how much good a posting like this can do. The country is going back a little bit more every day. According to OECD reports, Turkey's situation is pathetic. In a manner of speaking, Turkey is dead, but no one is crying. Inside and out, the altars laugh in secret. According to the report, Turkey is ranked among 34 countries in education. I just can't get over it. The future of a country whose education level is underfoot is not bright. It's impossible to look forward to tomorrows, but it's no surprise. Thursday's coming on Wednesday. We said that the disbursement of school principals without any grounds throughout Turkey would be severe. About 7,500 nationalist school principals were suspended in one night. The minister of national education has committed genocide. The dismissal of these directors who dedicate their lives to students is the greatest evil a Minister of National Education can do to his country. Again, according to the OECD report, Turkey has ranked 31st in 34 countries in the health care system. The health system has also collapsed in Turkey. The only thing the government has done about health is to please its allies again. Side-by-side businessmen have opened hospitals one after the other. Supposedly, no money was taken from a citizen when they checked in from the E.R. Go see if you can get money from the citizen or not. Business accidents occur quite often in the industrial city, such as the one of the Bigeli. Most of the business accidents are hand-to-finger cuts. Microsurgery specialists are the only ones who can handle these injuries, and there's only one microsurgery specialist in Kokelin, Deep Education and Research Hospital. I wonder, what will this Reverend do when he's on leave, a citizen whose finger and arm have been severed? You also opened a health clinic to give health care to many villages of Hoveli. A very important part of them are closed or no doctor is coming, the flowers you plant in your garden are drying, the grass is dying, and even patients have to travel for miles to get needles. In the OECD report, Turkey is also ranked 30 (30) in the environment, and is ranked 30 (30) in security. When I say security, I don't say it for the President's safety, the Prime Minister's safety, because they're walking around with armies, even when they come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they're walled with flesh. Have you not noticed that the budget of the presidency has increased 97% after Mr. Erdoğan became President? The President's budget, his new budget, corresponds to the salary of 250,000 workers in Turkey. It's a shame, it's a sin! These people forbid you this money. When the worker can't even take medicine in the system you bring in, it's illegal for you, it's not fair. It's hard to understand what you're doing in this country where there's unemployment. Finally, I'd like to make a commitment to a non-obstructive decision regarding December 17th-25th investigations. That's where the word ends, there's no way to say it. The ministers, who were involved in these allegations of corruption, were dismissed for show, prepared for a false trial, and with this non-obsession decision, those arguments will be thrown out of your mind. I mean, in a nutshell, and so forth. Amen. You will say so. We've already made our way, so you're gonna have to say it's okay for us to be corrupt. People won't be allowed to be so naughty. Those who rob the state, those who take bribes, those who come out of their homes with safes and boxes of bribe money, are also cleared by themselves and will not be ashamed to receive compensation from the state. And this compensation will come out of the pocket of a poor citizen who can't make it to the end of the month. Now, the spear can't fit in the sack. The verdict of non-observation does not cover the theft. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0048par0101	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0049par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the HDP Group, would like to say at the beginning that we welcome the opening of a technical university in Gebze district of our province. We wish that the university, which will be established, will already be blessed with our faith that it will contribute positively to our province, Gebze district, and Turkey's education. Dear lawmakers, while I have received a promise regarding the establishment of a university, I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the education issues in Turkey. Now, I would like to say that if education in Turkey is to be taken into question, if there is to be an argument, and especially if universities are to be discussed, you should start with the NGO. In Turkey, the Higher Education Board -- which is now the product of the September 12 military coup -- has proposed that this institution must be annulled, that it must be eliminated, that it has lost its function and that education in Turkey should be democratised, that it should no longer be a preventing factor in the autonomy of universities. For a long time, we have expressed this demand, and on every anniversary of the RSW, this issue will certainly come up and be debated. Again, from today's perspective, I'd like to say that this discussion needs to be updated again today, and especially in universities, the autonomous structure of science should be the subject of discussion, the autonomous structure of universities. What I mean by arguing is that colleges need to know that they can't be run by military custody anymore, that they can't be run by military custody. Therefore, we need to make bold decisions regarding the autonomous structure of universities, and we need to make the decisions that need to be made. When we look at the institutions and functions of universities in Turkey in particular, we see that universities in many of our provinces are ineffective, and the universities established within universities are dysfunctional. When you should be opening a mining faculty at the mine site, you're building a different university, a faculty called social sciences, you're building literature, and you're building mining schools in places that have nothing to do with the mine. You're building agricultural schools in rural settlements, and you're building different schools in our cities that work in agriculture and build their livelihoods on agriculture. So, the university is hungry, and because it's being approached, regardless of what it's called college, because it's being approached from a scientific perspective, many of the universities in our provinces are unfortunately dysfunctional, schools are not functional, they don't serve the purpose. Now, that's what happens when you approach college with a high school approach. In fact, many universities in Turkey are now just signs. Yeah, it's called college, but it's sign college. There's even a sign somewhere, no building. If you want to send a message of celebration to any of these universities in an envelope from the House, you have no address to send. He rents presidents, he studies students in other cities, but there's a university in that town, it's called college. I don't want to go by one name at a time, but we have universities like this, we have many cities, and there's not a single example, there's more than one example. I've said it many times, Minister of National Education, when I bring it up, it gets a little bit taken, but for example, at Hakkari University, I've told the Minister over and over again here, I said, "If you send a letter to Hakkari University, where will you send it?" It's been over a year, and I'm going to do it again because nothing's changed, nothing's changed in a year. I spoke here this time last year, I told you that. You can only tell the police station and get something like that to the university. Soldiers used to come in letters like this, and they'd send letters to grocery stores, and they'd send letters to no one or other. They'd send letters from the soldier. Now, when you send a letter to the university, such as Hakkari University, you either have to give the address of a grocery store in Hakkari, or you have to say "University rectory by the police department." Because the university doesn't really have an address, because there is no university. His students are graduating from Çukurova University. At the moment, the students of Hakkari University will receive their graduation diplomas from Çukurova University this year.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0050par0113	Zozani, no middle school building?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0049par0114	If it was a school building, they'd give us an address.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0050par0115	They must have given the Imam to the hospital!
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0049par0116	Now, do you know where they wrote because they couldn't find a place to put up signs? They put the name of the university on the mountain.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0050par0117	They've built a mountain stone!
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0049par0118	When you went to Hakkari, when you looked from the front, they wrote the name of Hakkari University on the top of the mountain, no construction, nothing, no college. But this is the biggest sign in Hakkari, the summer of the mountain, the University of Haqkari, wherever you look. As a freak, that sign stands there. Look, we're in the fourth year, and we're talking about it here, every chance we get. We're telling the Minister, we say: "Ya, take care of it." You're doing college there, there's no inhibiting factor. Everyone wants that college to be over as soon as possible, but it's still there. We brought it up in the spring, we talked to Mr. Secretary on the commission. He sent me pictures of the construction there. In a few days, I'll return the photos of that construction to him in the same way that was taken today, because nothing has changed, nothing has been done. For the past two years, the TOKI will tender a 500-bed dorm on this university campus site. We've been working on it for two years, going to the president himself. Yeah, well, he's got money, and the Department of State, Youth and Sports has given you the money, and he's given you the power to tender it, so put it in the tender. Two more years, there's going to be a housing contract at the university campus site. Other than that, the rectory stands as a tenant in a building downtown. By God, the municipality has built a building, which resides within the university's relevant units, and at a municipality's workplace, the university's relevant units reside. Other than that, nothing. Is it different in other cities? In other counties, the situation is no different. Therefore, we need to take it seriously now when you take a hand in teaching. We said 4+4+4 when we were arguing here. Yes, the education system in Turkey is a problem system. No one's happy with what's available, but instead of organizing it to serve your well-being, we decided to rebuild the teaching system with scientific methods. Today, we make the same suggestion, as we do today. What changed in the education system in Turkey after crossing to 4+4+4? We have put only three four chapters in a row, and we have not served any other purpose. Were there certain purposes we were seeking? I won't be in a subjective assessment, but it's never served anything. There are only three four watts left at the top of the call centers' phones. Recovery from the system, the restoration of the system, if that's what you mean, it didn't serve anything. Those three four call center phones were already at the top of them. Nothing else happened here. Come on, let's start over, and we'll move our teaching system to a point where it's not going to be turned into another sabbatical board that's supposed to be our teaching system. I say we do this. That's when we made our offer clear to you. If there are good examples in other countries of the world, let's take them. For example, we suggested a model in some Scandinavian countries. They have 4 plus 4 plus 3, plus 4, plus 5. After elementary school, they manipulate the student according to their abilities, and after graduating from universities, they do not become unemployed. But in this country, we only have 300,000 teachers who have finished education and completed training formations. We don't go into any of the engineers or anything like that. The jobs of those who graduated from science school are pathetic. You had to make the teacher a cop because you couldn't give him a job, you had to make the teacher a security guard, you had to make the engineer a security guard. Many engineers today have to apply to subcontractors to find jobs. Now, at the technical university in Gebze, technical staff will be brought up. Where are you going to hire? Do you have any perspective on that? I'm afraid not. But here, turning it into an election ad, turning it into an election investment, makes it look like a political skill. Everyone should know that no one can profit from this stage anymore. This kind of thing flips when it's turned into election propaganda, election investment. You'll find these will backfire. On this occasion, I feel the need to bring up another subject. Two days ago in Suruç district of Şanlıurfa, a reporter from a foreign television station died in a suspicious accident. We also asked the ministry today about the question proposal, but it was not possible for the Lebanese-based American journalist to die a day or two before his death -- who, on the television channel where he was connected, claimed that aid trucks had passed through Syria, ISIS gangs, under the supervision of the Turkish National Intelligence Agency -- to pass on this accident as a coincidence, and then one day later he died under a blender. This incident, especially this accident, must be investigated. Without any doubt about the death of this journalist Serena, this incident and its allegations should be investigated. There's another third thing I'd like to make clear: from time to time, MPs to the speakers who stand on the stand, and from time to time, we're involved in taunts from our place, behavior that disrupts your concentration. Interventions from right or wrong often happen in this House. I was exposed to one of these last week. My speech report is here, after which Mr. Shuay Albay, our public defender in the bullying, stated that I had wronged him. If I've made a hurtful statement to him, I'll withdraw that statement, but in this speech report -- I counted it -- during my ten-minute speech, Mr. Shuay Albay has interrupted my speech 29 times. I've counted them one by one, 29 times he's interfered with my speech from here in disturbing, provocative terms. I answered him after the 11th time I teased him. I counted them one by one, the reports are here. And he brought me the report himself. However, I'm saying that if I've spent something hurtful on him, I take it back, but when the MPs are sitting in their seats or on the legislature's stand, when someone's talking here, just to break their concentration, this kind of bullying that you're doing to get ahead is a problem for lawmakers, especially the ruling party. If they're demanding too much, I'll give them half the time I have to speak to the ruling party MPs, whoever wants them to, let them express themselves here, and let them respond to the claims we've made.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0051par0126	Don't be so brave, forget it.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0049par0127	We say it so loud and clear, but just because we don't have a chance to talk and try to show ourselves out of there, let's just say something from there, for the record. It's probably not the right way to say it, and that's where we object. From time to time, we don't claim to be right about all the issues we bring up here. Look, I'm saying that the claim that I just made about Serena Shim is, look, I'm saying that it's her claim. He made an assessment of the footage of the trucks and died in the accident a day later. And when we say that here, it's not up to you to talk about getting out of it, it's up to you to pursue it, because we say, "Come, let's look into it together." For example, the events of October 6-7 are called. And here's the... look, the events of October 6-7 aren't events, it's October 7-8. You know why they're expressed in the form of 6-7, not 7-8? This is how the statement is made by the President so that he can go to Carmbole. Things start the day before we talk. However, in the events of October 7th and 8th, the mortal event began at 7th and 8th, 7th and 8th. So when you think about it this thinly, I wonder if you think about it this thinly, and you don't think that the people in front of you can solve this fiction. So, I just did. From this podium, it's not my style, and I never, ever intend to hurt anyone. And if I'm hurting someone, I'm going to come out here and say, "Yes, he's out of line." But I believe that this painting should be seen. At the end of my words, I wish that Gebze's technical university would be good for us, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0132	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0134	Sir!
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0135	The MP sent me my name with a note. I demand word from the bench.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0136	Now, he didn't pick on you, for what reason... he didn't tease you, I watched carefully,
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0138	Wait a second. In fact, if I said something wrong, I take it back.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0139	No, no, no, he said that, but he continued to provoke me, to harass me, to interfere with my speech.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0140	So you're saying that I didn't provoke my friend?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0141	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0052par0142	That's what you're gonna say. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0053par0146	Mr. President, thank you. First, of course, I accept your apology for taking back the congressman's promise, thank you for that, but we don't need to prove our identity as we're about to be investigated by Parliamentary reports. It's true that we say a lot of things in place without saying an insult unless it's absolutely necessary for any speaker to speak, but it's very rarely something we do. Usually, all our congressman friends know that about us. However, as Mr. Speaker gave his speech, the HDP Group was speaking in favour of him, and when I said, "We will deal with him." I said, "Do you mean more death, more burning, more destruction?" I said, "Do you mean this?" When I persisted in this matter, there was an intervention in whether it was death or not, not sin? That was the reason for my intervention. Otherwise, we've never had the necessity or the obligation to prove ourselves to anyone or anyone else. Praise be to God, we are sure of ourselves, and we know what we say. When I reminded him of that, he made a statement regarding my profession as a judge, very unfortunate, and he admitted his misfortune. Because, Congressman, when I was 18 years old, I served as a criminal judge in honor, honor, honor and honor as a friend of yours who served this nation. He realized it himself, but he said he had to say it in the face of the intervention. I wanted to share this with the High Council. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0054par0154	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, MP Mehmet Ali Okur. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0055par0157	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the Law of Higher Education Institutions Act and on the Proposal of the Law on Changes in Some Laws and Laws. I salute your high council. In 1992, the Gebze Institute of Higher Education, education and research was established in particular in order to play an active role in the development and development of new technologies, the future of Turkey's industrial development and economy in our district. The Gebze Institute of High Technology is a structure that was designed about 22 years ago to do advanced technology research that would contribute to our industry in our region, and to create national solutions to the problems of our industry, to increase the acceleration of development in our region, and to give only master's and doctoral training. However, this structure has changed over time, becoming a boutique university outside of the institution's purpose. We observed that the existing institute needs to be restructured based on both the needs of our region and the improvements of the world, and we started a detailed study with our friends. After maturing the work we've done, we've proposed law to the House at the point of continuing the education of the Gebze Institute of High Technology as a Gebze technical university. I'd like to stress in particular that our work is a broad, detailed study. Hopefully, we'd like to bring this work that we've done with your support to the final conclusion that we can bring to our country a university that can compete in the world with research and development under the name of the Gebze Technical University, with the quality of education and teaching and the quality of education. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are of great importance to our educational nation and to humanity. The ultimate goal of the Republic of Turkey in education is to raise people. It's about raising people who understand the world and the world correctly, who interpret it, who are at peace with the world, but who can also compete with the world in science, in art, in sports, in technology. The way to rise above the level of modern civilization is through education. We can move our civilization into the future through great and powerful generations of dreams. We need to know that every investment in education is a door to Turkey's bright future. Universitys have significant impacts on science, culture, art, education, human resources, work and social services in their area. In the development of society as a whole, college support is always needed. Dear friends, Alexei, the population is close to 1,700,000, one of Turkey's most advanced and growing centers on issues such as industry, technology, finance, logistics. Gebze, a major part of our region, has become a center of investment, production and technology, along with our districts of Dardica, Çayırova and Dilovasi. And as of his position, he's getting more and more advanced every day. Gebze, who financed his livelihood through the 1960s, has now become an important industrial region. Over 600,000 populations, geographical position, companies operating in organised industrial areas within its borders, free zones, techno parks, and Gebze also increase the value of adding to the country by increasing acceleration each year. Gebze, also became a logistical centre for Turkey's largest transport networks, is preferred by Turkey's most important industrial institutions, as well as foreign capital. In addition to the values he has today, Gebze reveals the fact that he will become a major centre with new investments to be made later, as well as economic achievements, as well as a much more important centre in science and technology. Gebze remains in a position to meet the social and cultural needs of citizens living in the region with the work being done. In our region, there are units such as TÜBITAK, INFORM, MEM, TUSSIDE, UME, and also TSE labs. Again, there is an I.T. Valley in our region, which was announced by the Council of Ministers in 2011, which continues to work and will soon begin its activities. There are nine organised industrial areas in Gebze and around it, and two techno parks have many RD centres. The Gebze region meets 2.65 per cent of Turkish exports and 9.11 per cent of its imports. He alone has a 17 per cent share in Turkey's foreign trade. Given the potential for gebze and its environment, a need for a university has arisen. In the development of our country, university-industrial cooperation is important for the development of production and employment opportunities and the production of advanced technology. In addition to our proposed law and existing faculty and institutions of the Gebze Institute of Higher Technology, the Institute of Higher Technology, the Institute of Transport Technologies, the Institute of Defence Technologies, the Institute of Sciences, the Institute of Sciences, the Institute of Sciences, and the Institute of Energy, the Institute of Energy, the Institute of Biotech, the Institute of Biotech, the Institute of Earth and Marine Sciences, the Institute of Education, the Institute of Defence Technology, and the Institute of Sciences, the Institute of Sciences and Social Sciences. Dear President, the esteemed lawmakers, Gebze is the name of the intersection where history passes, where he stops for a short period of time, stays, is beautiful, and the industry becomes huge. It has always been one of Turkey's and the world's attractions after 1985, because of its easyness, its vast industrial facilities, and its important institutions. Another important feature of Gebze is that it is the mosaic of Turkey, which has taken migration from almost every part of our country, from every province and district. So it's like a garden with all kinds of flowers in it, Gebze. It's a settlement where the different customs and customs and customs of Anatolia meet each other, integrate with each other, and different cultures shake hands and embrace a beautiful union, Gebze. Dear friends, praise be to God, we've done a lot of work in our country, with the power of the EC PARTY, which has been in power for twelve years with the great support of our beloved nation in 2002, making great services and investments. With our nation's support and blessing, we will strive to do much more for Turkey, for our nation, for humanity, we will go on this long, thin road day and night, and we will continue running day and night. Life is moving forward, but you can see it backwards. We have to build our future by learning from the past. It is our primary duty to place the Republic of Turkey in the most powerful positions in the modern states. We will continue to work together at the point of reaching our country's 2023 vision. We've got a long way to go, projects and goals. Hopefully, as long as our nation's support continues, we will continue to carry out these goals. As I end my words, Gebze, I wish our technical university, our nation, our tribe, our tribe, yes, our eagerly-looking fellow Gebzeli. Especially to our Prime Minister, our ministers, our members of the National Education Commission, for the support they've given to our ruling MPs and opposition MPs, especially to all our Chief Justice of the Ministry, to our YÖK President, and to all our legislatures, I would like to make an example of our work, and I would like to extend my regards to all of you. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0056par0178	Thank you, Mr. Reader. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The law of higher education is that the law of the law and the law of the law and the law of the law should be changed. MADDE 1-28/3/1983 and was changed in the following way, along with Article 19 of Article No. 2809 under the Law on Higher Education Institutions. ==History==The University of Gebze was founded under the name Gebze Technical University of Turkey. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Basic Sciences, B) From Engineering School, C) From the School of Architecture, From the Business School, d) From the Institute of Energy Technologies, e) from the Institute of Biotechnology, F) Nanotechnology Institute, G) From the Institute of Earth and Marine Sciences, From the Institute of Transport Technologies, H) From the Institute of Defense Technologies, I) From the Institute of Information Technologies, i) From the Institute of Sciences, J) From the Institute of Social Sciences, It's happening." On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles Mr. Hursit Sun. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0057par0204	Mr. President, dear friends, seven of the ruling party's deputies have brought a proposal to establish a university in Gebze. To the General Assembly of the Assembly. Now, in any case, I find it useful to look at some of the details of this proposed law. On 14/12/2011, I proposed a law to parliament, along with my friends, the Kopeelli MP, who was transferred to Parliamentary Presidency on 2/1/2012 and landed at the Assembly General Assembly on 29/5/2012. We brought in a proposal for a law to build a university in Gebze, we explained here, why there was such a need, and on that date, exactly two and a half years ago, lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party came in here and said, "We don't need such a law, we're already in preparation, we'll bring it in soon." Now, e, of course, we've been curious about what they've done for two and a half years, and it turns out what they've done. Let's change the name of Gebze High Technologies Institute, founded in 1992 by the Right Path Party and the Social Democratic People's Party coalition by the late Erdal Inönu, with initiative and encouragement, and let's call it Gebze Technologic University, and let's call it Gebze Technical University, and let's make this a success of the government and the ruling party. Now, of course, the great preparation took two and a half years, not less ice; the entire government, the ruling party, is an extraordinary preparation. What was done, what came out of it, what was put into it, what was missing from our offer two and a half years ago, and what kind of college was founded in two and a half years later, with extraordinary preparation. Now, I've looked at the bill proposal, and it's a shame to say I'm a professor. Although I've been retired a long time, but I know what it's like to be in a college. Colleges carry three targets. One, research carries the target. Gebze was one of the main objectives of the Institute of High Technology, research. The second is education. Gebze Institute of Higher Technology education was only at a master's degree level... and she had students at the Master's level... but it was more of a bachelor's degree where she was single-minded, self-directed and concentrated. And there's a third -- it's very important in Turkey, especially in Turkey -- that it helps social development in places where it's founded. Now, let's see what Gebze Tech University does in that sense. First of all, a new university is never established; just like the number of staff, the number of faculty is exactly the same as the Gebze Institute of Technology, there is no change. What they did for two and a half years, you wonder if that's what they came up with. There are only nine institutes this time, the number of institutes has increased. Not to mention the institutes, they put in energy, they put in biotechnology, you know, nanotechnology, defense, information, something. It's not hard to build an institute, you can build an institute in universities as much as you want, as long as you're the only institution in the country. Now, they say that the reason for the law is that there was no integration with the TÜBITAK. It's about the Gebze Institute of High Technology. That's not true, that's never true, there's no reason, there's no concrete reason. Secondly, university-industrial cooperation has not improved. But there's no difference in this bill you brought in, the same thing, the sign just changed. The region needs a grown human resource, they call it. Then why did you refuse our bill? There were many other things in it. See, this is a very important issue, and if a separate university were established in Gebze, there would be two universities in Gebze. What did you do now? You've narrowed down the university of Gebze. In addition, you also blocked the way for a serious college in Gebze. In fact, you did a great deal of harm to the Gebzeites in the long term, because Gebze would have had both the Gebze Institute of High Technology and a university, and there would have been many other areas within that university of Gebze. For example, I looked, there's a business school, why isn't there an economics and administrative sciences faculty? Because when there's a faculty of economic and administrative sciences, there's an economy, there's a political science, there's an international relationship, there's a lot of other social areas. Would it be bad if there was? So you're going to put international relations or political science under the business? He doesn't get under that faculty, and he doesn't get the NCO. Now, I see, no science. In our proposal for the law, there was a faculty of fine arts. Those of you who know Gebze will know, it seems the AKP MPs don't know about Gebze. Gebze has a very historical name: Osman Hamdi Bey. We said: "Come, let us set up a fine faculty of arts here, and let Osman Hamdi Bey carry the name of Gebze. How beautiful it would be for Gebze. Gebze (Gebze) also needs a very serious school of architecture. Yes, Gebze is a cosmopolitan region with people from many parts of Turkey, as my congressman friend just said, but one other thing, urban development and social fabric have not developed. There's only one cinema in Gebze, one cinema, nothing else, and it's just been built. There is no theater in Gebze, no social space, no cultural development. Why not? Why is this newly founded university built as a technical university and not a larger university? With engineering in it. Let me tell you something else. Yes, it was founded on that day, again, at the University of Schepeli, a university founded by the same coalition, a university led by social democrats. There's medical school there. You come in, you tell it here, there are hundreds of thousands of people in Gebze. You say, "There is no medical school." No need? People are trying to get medical services from Gebze, from Dardica, from Çayırova, to Izmit, and unfortunately, they are waiting in queues because the medical services of the University of Hosheli are no longer sufficient for all of them. Unfortunately, that's not in the bill. Now, look, you're thinking of 190 officers, you're putting in a 9th degree, all 127 people are currently working at the Gebze Institute of Technology, so a change isn't actually recommended. Now, in human form, he's curious. We're not going to call it the Republican People's Party, because you're going to go to Marseilles if we say no. We brought you a second university in Kokelin, the Republican People's Party and the opposition said no. Do we say that? Of course we will. We'll say yes, of course we will, but it's never what we want. We wanted something much more, much better for her. It's a pity you didn't get us to do that, and now you've come in here and you've given us a calmer, and we've done what we've been promised, and I'm really glad that you didn't pick a high school and change your name with a college sign, and then you chose the Gebze Institute of High Technology and changed its sign. There's no change; no change, no change of location, the same staff, the same structure, no difference, nothing changes, just the sign changes. And then what? We've founded Gebze. You'll say Gebze is a technical university. You're not going to start a technical university in Gebze, you're going to change the sign of the Gebze Institute of High Technology, and you're going to try to tell the public about it, and you're going to try to cheat my people, that's not true. Gebze (Gebze) needs a serious university, needs a much wider university, and even has a medical school in it. It's even in Gebze. The location of this is a region in Gebze, which is now declassified as a military zone, but we have heard that you would like to open it as a place of rent. Would it be bad if college was there? Why are you trying to destroy the Gebze Institute of High Technology? Look, I'll tell you something else: the Gebze Institute of High Technology isn't really an exceptional place. There are California Technical Institutes, MITs, California Institute of Technology, and there are similar ones in the world. Unfortunately, you're killing one of them to actually start a new university. We, frankly -- again, my friends, in other materials that they're going to express -- we're not going to call this university's establishment, not actually its foundation, but the sign change, but we don't think it's the right thing to do. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0058par0218	Thank you, Mr. Sun. On the first article, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0059par0220	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are interested in the establishment of a university of Law Proposal 645. As HDP, we have noted that all proposals regarding universities and schools have been made both in commissions and in the General Assembly. Colleges are established in that country, but in its city, there are parts of its infrastructure, its economy, its industry, its social status, its resources, its resources, its civilian society, there, without any considerations. You know what happens? Currently, the highest unemployment rate in Turkey is among university graduates. I mean, in the end, there's trouble again about college graduates and teachers, especially over 350,000, waiting to be appointed, and these departments. But can a university do without evaluation achieve the desired goal? Science, teaching, education, if you provide freedoms and if you say that the people and all the NGOs who live there, the elected people, the local rulers, all of them, have a law proposal, and that's a university that I've established, and then it's a problem. That's what we want to draw attention to here. In many cities, universities have been opened, many foundations have been opened, but when you leave Istanbul and pass through Gebze, you go to a Dilovasi, which is the busiest point of Turkey's environmental pollution, Dilova. We drive by there every day. It's by the sea, but when you look at the industrial species that were built there, there's a real danger to the health of the people who live there. Now, regardless of your environmental health, the industry that's established -- that's the head of human rights and freedoms -- every study that's done without consideration, really, sometimes does more harm than it does, maybe a few companies, a few people make money, but how are you going to get cooperation with universities, the whole point is here. We're seeing a major disconnect here, folks. And we have a rebellion here against understanding that doesn't get the opinion of that city when we're doing college in a city, the central understanding that doesn't take the opinion of the locals, that's the main problem here. If you always know about power from the center, I'll do it by two laws, by counting. If you move it to the point, you can't talk about planned growth, planned education, planned development and needs, you can't talk about a university, you can't really see that. They also build universities in Şırnak. We're looking at universities in Şırnak, there's coal stoves everywhere, there's power plants all over the place, but why isn't there engineering? When you ask him, he's being put in front of social sciences, commercial trends and so on. I mean, why not the areas that need it? Or the university in Gebze was not researched in what basic branch of the environment they needed. This might be the following understanding: let's set up the university today, and we'll build it again tomorrow according to those needs, and that's the way it's always been. This understanding is not an approach for Turkey, which is the 17th largest economy in G-20. You start colleges, now they're up to 200, but in the world universities, how many of your universities are ranking, the first 100, you look at them. Mr. Speaker, the university professor, was a college teacher at the Schepeli, and he knows how to do things. So, when you have to count 100 universities, which of these universities can get into the top 1,000 standard? None of them do, that's the problem. Now, of course, that's what we're talking about in Congress, folks. Here we go, live to seven. We just had a meeting with the Justice Commission on the security package. That's where Turkey's agenda is, but Turkey's agenda is closed, folks. The press is coming in on the commission, taking pictures, leaving. They want to keep the opposition quiet. This country needs justice as much as bread, water, air, friends. Justice is a highly sensitive issue, and that's the thing that's most worn out in Turkey that's changed the most, the most laws have been changed. Six months ago, we changed the law, forced suspicion, strong suspicion. The AKP MPs couldn't get out here and finish the judicial reform story on this stand, and we called it the right thing. What happened after that? You're trying to change him right now today, you're making reasonable doubt. What do you mean, reasonable doubt? So the European Convention on Human Rights will be on the side of the Convention on Human Rights, and you will take out the Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, and you will take out the Economic Social Contract, and they will all be judged fairly, and there will be no violation of international contracts and laws to be issued in Article 90 of the Constitution. And then we see that after all that, you come to the Constitution and against the contract, and you say, "Europe," and you mislead the public, and you remove the mandatory doubt before the investigation begins. The reasonable doubt is that there's been a serious incident after the crime was committed. Now, what I want to say here is, why are you guys bringing this arrangement? I'm being very clear. In all the laws, law enforcement has the opportunity to search as requested. The wiretap has gone up in Turkey, and there's no rest left. They told me in this House: presidents, ministers, everyone listened. Would you tell me, for God's sake, that I haven't listened. Can you tell me one place that says, "I haven't listened?" Chief of Staff, President, Supreme Court judges and all MPs, we're all resting. It's not enough that the government is under the law of wiretaps, as well as preventive listening, and notice that there is a law -- an extension, even a sergeant general, even a guard can eavesdrop under that law. There's this, but it's still bringing in a new arrangement. Friends, in this confusing understanding of law, universal law, did you not say parallel, parallel, and listen to us? Did you not say, "Apocalypse"? So, what's this new covert wiretap you're bringing in, unlimited. If it's the law, if it's the law, there's all the wiretaps you want. What in God's name do you want? You're already listening. What do you want beyond that? They're here. Now, not only that, what does that mean, the secret investigator? I'm going to silence all opposition. I mean, I'm going to silence the opposition. The President and the Prime Minister are all traitors. He says all opposition parties are traitors. Isn't it reasonable to be a suspect when you're a traitor? It's happening. What do the police, the police, the police, the gendarmes, do with reasonable doubt? It applies to the opposition. Guys, we've made three offers as HDPs. We said, "raise the case reviews of the lawyers." I'm afraid they brought it to the contrary. We took back all three of our proposals against these dictatorship laws, and I wanted to share it with the public here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0060par0236	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0061par0240	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 1st Article of the Higher Education Institutions Act 645 on behalf of the National Movement Party, and I salute you all. Yeah, for 12 years, really, national training practices are about to get us killed. Because they've been saying it, but it's been a power block for 12 years. So many things have been said that we're tired now, but we'll stop being tired and keep saying things. We don't know where to start, but I'd like to start based on the speeches Mr. Prime Minister gave at yesterday's Academic Archive Project Promotion Meeting. In his speech at the opening at the opening, the Prime Minister also showed the failure of the 12-year-old AKP power, while still maintaining victim literature and political style. In his speech at the YKK, he stated that he was waiting at the door to avoid being insulted by his wife's examination years ago, while still expressing the victim of her secret headscarf. Now we ask: Are you aware of those who are insulted today in universities or in many institutions, on the street, in public areas? Do you realize that today all of these people's abilities are being thrown aside and not considered? Today, power now declares those who are not themselves or those who express different opinions as traitors. We'd like to ask Davutoglu: Are you aware of this, Prime Minister? Again, in his speech yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister says: "All ideas should be discussed in universities, or universities should be made into places where these ideas are discussed, and we, the university professors, and we, should be able to bring that morality to those young people," he says. Now, what morality are we talking about, Mr. Davutoglu? What moral criteria did you use in preferences to the president's appointment? What moral criteria did you use when you were making appointments, when you were hiring assistants? We're expressing that you need to review these. You have used the resources of the SEC, which you have criticised for many years and described as a coup d'état. Mr. Prime Minister, the man of each other is not a university that is considered a member. As we leave this interpretation to our nation, we say that those who are not now AKP's men are not accepted by AKP people. Mr. Davutoglu also reports that he was discriminated against after applying to the university to become an academic, while stating that an unfortunate statement had been made to him. He was quoted as saying, Mr. Ahmet, long story short, we are a team here, and we think that you will not be able to comply with this team. We ask Mr. Davutoglu: Whose team are the academic friends of the ruling party who are currently formed in universities and who are the gunmen of the ruling party? We want them answered by Mr. Davutoglu again. Davutoglu himself, the academic himself, really knows some of the problems, but we'll see how capable he is of answering that question or building a solution. Again, without a reform in basic science, Mr. Davutoglu says that R&D will not develop, but we can see that in almost all universities and newly opened universities, basic sciences are not preferred, but some remain empty, and some even open with one choice. Although the number of universities is increasing in our country, we can also see that the number of professors has not reached certain measurements. The autonomy rights of academics who work at the university still seem to remain troubled and troubled. Because academics at the university are still on the verge of starvation and poverty. We also want to point out that the arrangements for academic salaries are not good enough to satisfy the need. Because despite academic increases, we can safely say that the 9% increase in electricity and natural gas has taken a significant amount of these increases. Again, we can see from this academic increase as an academic increase, that our friends, who are engaged in academic training at universities, are not able to benefit from their professional staff. This mistake needs to be removed immediately. We're stressing here that our colleagues who work with an expert staff at universities need to take advantage of these hikes. Because thousands of our friends have been victims and are in a state of panic. And based on their salaries, they're not really enough to sustain their lives. This needs to be corrected immediately, and their victims need to be compensated. We know that the researchers who are now standing before us as a major problem are being taken by three different substances according to Law 2547; they are taken according to the 33th, 35th, and 50/d clauses. And we're saying that they need to be done with a single staff, even though they're no longer in their studies or their status -- even though there's no difference in salary -- and this problem has to go. The issue of dorms, again one of the major problems, remains a major problem. Students who have won the university exam and have traveled to other cities are unable to provide for their homes. In our talks and research proposals on this subject, we can also see that our problems with the dorms are still unresolved. 390,000 students will be reached by the end of December 2014 by the Ministry. I wonder how many college students there are. When we look at this issue, in 2014, considering 5 million 470,000 students have read at universities, how much does 390,000 respond to the need for housing? We would like to tell you that children who were once in need of homes are now being sequestered to TERGEV. As we look at 12 years of studies, we can see that 188,000 students were given beds in 2002, and this is not much increased. The number of universities has been increased from 73 to 184, but we also see that the number of beds is not considered in this way. Again, when we look at the problems of academics, professors do not have time to write articles from attending classes. We can say that the pay raise is insufficient. There is not enough funding for projects. Moreover, when we look at unemployment rates, we can easily see that this has gone too far among college graduates. We want to make it clear here that college graduates need to create new employment opportunities and that universities need to be reorganized accordingly. Right now, we're particularly hoping for the success of the Gebze technical university that we're seeing, but we'd like to stress that it's a work like this, as well as problems. I thank you all for providing such an opportunity.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0062par0258	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. In the name of the individuals, Mr. Reshad. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0063par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on Bill 645. I salute the High Council. Of course, we should all be pleased that a fine technical university has been established for our Gebze. And I congratulate a college that's being founded, and I wish it to be good, to bring blessings to our country and to our nation. Of course, I, in particular, would like to express to our Tokat, as a Tokat MP, that there is a very busy agriculture, that there is a Kazova tomato in the Kelkit Valley, that there is a whole different picture of agriculture, with apples, vegetables, fruit, and a different province of agriculture. So I'd like to say that in the agricultural potential of agriculture, which concerns agriculture, where agricultural fairs are set up at every point, where agriculture has been done, and where a certain distance has been taken, an agricultural university is appropriate. Congressmans, of course, the main duty of scholars is to study, to develop manpower, equipped with knowledge and skill. New suggestions should be made to solve the problems of the country and the world, to develop technology. These are the primary tasks of the scientist. The scientist grows in 25 to 30 years. It must not be forgotten how many challenges have been faced during the upbringing. However, among the many problems of university faculty members and staff, the lack of wages and lowness are the biggest problem. Wherever we go, the university's professors specifically want us to express this subject and to have serious distances on the subject. But we also have to say that the most important reason for lower salaries in universities is because our country is directly related to the importance of science. If Turkey wants to become a leading country in 2023, it must be very important to science and to the RD, to raise scientists. If so, then it should be our duty to pay the university staff to live humanely. However, in AKP's twelve-year rule, the head of professional groups that have been forgotten and have been victimised comes from university professors to civil servants. The most important problems in the study among 1,017 professors are: the price reduction is 52.5 per cent; the rising challenges are 22.6 per cent; the working conditions are 16.9 per cent; the loss of prestige is 8 per cent. More than half of the professors involved in the study have expressed that their most important problem is the lack of wages. Without raising scientists as a country, no world will achieve its goal, and our technology will not develop in our country. In recent years, studies have revealed that university employees are being paid under the poverty line. I'm afraid we have the same painting today. In comparison with the world's equivalent trade groups, it should also be seen how little our country pays and how much our professors suffer. It's time for a new higher education reform in our country. Many issues must now be on the agenda, and problems must be resolved one by one, from the SEC to the faculty to their employees. Academic staff's salary should be at the same rate as the countries that are developing with the same level of economic and social development as Turkey. There must be an additional performance application. College efficiency and creative work must be supported. Because a teacher cannot earn a living, he must not look for work outside the university, he must stay inside his university, be supported in his research, development, and work. We've been warning the AKP's government for years to improve the status of university professors, but they're not convinced. We're getting word from the press that there's a bill being drafted right now. The law that is prepared must be well evaluated. Maybe we're looking at this as a last chance, and if this isn't well-assessed, then a law like this could be a dream. Therefore, to the professor, to the professor, to the teacher, to the employee, everyone's salary should be seriously assessed, improved, not to be brought up again, because if these issues are being brought up wherever they go, wherever they are, it means that the problem here has reached the stage of the SOS. In detail, the law must be in a position to respond to its expectations, and we must stop upsetting these people, their families, and their children. And he says our country will return the favor of giving them and the value they've given them, and I give you all my respect and love.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0064par0274	Thank you. Moving on to QA. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0065par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. In the province of Tokat, the farmers of Kazova, Zile, Kelkit and Artova in search of us say they have failed to produce this year because of the drought, and that they are damaged because they are not being sold for the value of their production. In particular, the fields need to be plowed and raked to prepare for the coming period. The high price of diesel can't get the tractors to put the diesel. The farmer's squirming. The farmer expects serious, real work from the government to support the farmer and to compensate for the damage. Do you have any work on this? The farmer is getting his hopes up. I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0066par0280	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0067par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as has been found in many media organs today, Mr. Obama, the President of the United States, was allowed to switch to Syria by opening up the Turkish Republic's armed forces after meeting with the President. On the basis of what law or constitutional judgment did you do this? Isn't that a Constitutional crime? To the north of Syria is not a state force from the north of Iraq. So, on what authority was this given? How do you intend to address this public unrest? Or is the Republic of Turkey ruled by Obama, Mr. President? I'm waiting for an answer.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0066par0283	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0068par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: He's taking the equivalency exam from time to time through CPS. Until this year, he did it twice a year until 2014. As of 2015, the ECHR has been reported to have been singled out in its new exam programme. In particular, those studying abroad as dentists and waiting for the equivalency exam to become two, while waiting for one to become three, four, were silenced, and they are asking the government for serious help in helping. I want to know if there's going to be an arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0069par0288	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0070par0289	I give up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0069par0290	You've given up, all right. Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0071par0292	Mr. President, we'll answer the questions in writing. I've taken notes. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0069par0294	Okay. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: To the presidency of TBM, 645 Orders of Law Proposal 1. We add the following bell to the clause and demand that the other bent numbers be identified accordingly. Ali Halaman Reşat Right Lütfu Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0072par0306	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0069par0307	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0073par0309	Mr. President, in my speech earlier, I said that medical school is essential at a university in Gebze. I want to do it over and over again here. Medical school is the real need of that area. There's only one medical school in Kokelel, and that's Hopetepe. From Gebze to Hopetepe, a person must travel exactly two hours to get there. Think of the crowd of that road to Ankara, where there's no way to get to the Shelley Medical School in an emergency. There was one thing Mr. Deputy Director of the Group told me earlier: that it is possible for medical schools to be established in the presence of universities by the Council of Ministers. He said something called the Council of Ministers. I don't know how possible it is, but I'll take that as a statement from the Deputy Director of the Group. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0074par0313	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0075par0314	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit02spe0074par0315	You want the number of decisions, I'll call. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit03spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 6th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Lütfü has not been able to find enough to vote on Turkkan's motion on the 1st article. Now, I submit the motion to your votes, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient, and those who agree... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 6th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the 1st article of Law Proposal 645, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan and his friends' motion for the second vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the motion is rejected. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 645. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following article has been added to the Court of Law on the Attendings of Higher Education Institutions No. 78, dated 2-2/9/1983. The additional MADDE 18-Gebze Technical University (I) includes staff members of the faculty on the list, adding Gebze Technical University as the Gebze Technical University. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles Mr. Haydar Akar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0076par0013	Mr. President, we're dealing with a law enforcement law. This law closes the Gebze Institute of High Technologies, and replaces it with Gebze Technique University. Now let's take a look at how we got here.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0077par0014	Mr. President, they're not listening.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0074par0015	Congressmans, if we can get the peace.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0076par0016	When we went out in 2011, we made a commitment to the people of Gebze to establish a university in Gebze, both candidates for the ruling party's parliamentary party and candidates for the opposition party. Why are we here? The Gebze region, with a total of 622,000 inhabitants, was then divided into four parts along with the Metropolitan Law, but a region of Gebze, with a total population of 622,000. There are 81 provinces in Gebze, where anyone can find one of his own in Gebze. Gebze is such a territory. It also has eight to nine organised industrial areas, two techno parks, and also with R&D centers, the region of Gebze, where the heart of Turkey and industry are beating. Now, we made these promises for the Gebze region. We came to parliament, to our AKP MP friends, to our friends in the district, and you promised, so we said, let's start this university together in Gebze. They called us "No." So we prepared a law proposal for Gebze to build a Gebze technical university, and we submitted it to the commission. Due to the lack of 45 days in the commission and because the ruling party MPs did not support this university, we brought it to the General Assembly under Article 37 of the Interior Charter, which was rejected by you AKP MPs and Kopeli MPs. Our request to start this university was not to change the sign of a current university there. Don't get me wrong, the Gebze Institute of Technology is a university in Gebze. Look, I want to read to you: since 1994, the Institute, which has trained in various disciplines at a master's and doctorate and level of doctorate and computer engineering since 2001, began in the departments of Electronic Engineering and Computer Engineering, which means that since 2002, it has become an English-sponsored bachelor's degree in Math and Physics and Physics Department, and in 2008, the Department of Architecture School of Business, the Department of Business, and Molecular Biology and Genetics in 2010. Today, the Institute reads 945 college students and 1,420 graduate students. In terms of the number of international publications per member, it is also ranked first among the state universities. These are information found on the page of the YOK, and on the page of the Gebze Institute of High Technology. So we take down the sign of one university; we put up another sign; we tell the Gebzeans that we're opening the Gebze technical university that we promised you. No, Gebze is not a university that we promised the Gebzes. We don't increase the number of universities in Gebze from one to two. We keep the number of universities in Gebze. In the future, we are talking about a real university, which can address all of Gebze, with the support of the Republican People's Party or you ruling party lawmakers, to address all of Gebze, to address the region; from Tuzla, Pendik, Sultanbeyli, to an area where there are two million people who can address the districts of Çayrova, Darica, Dilova and Gulf. So you take it down to 1 in Gebze. Now, we've talked a lot with this congressman friend, we've had a lot of arguments, and he's put a lot of work into it. Now, when I look at the law proposal... can you see it? The ones marked yellow are existing faculty. I see there's no new faculty, just five or six institutes added. There's no need to make a law about it. With the decision of the Council of Ministers, we could have added new institutions to that institute. There's nothing wrong with that. If only my friend had prepared the law to include the Gebze region, prepared a college proposal to serve Gebze's sociocultural structure, and prepared the location to use Gebze. We're backing it up again. I know they're going to go to Gebze, but we started Gebze's technical university, but the Republican People's Party didn't support the MPs. That's why I support it. But once again, Gebze University, the real Gebze Technical University, is cut off from a second university. Now, if we look at the area where this Institute is located, it's the closest one to Istanbul; it's in the meadow, under the D-100 road. Neither the teachers nor the students of the Institute there live in Gebze, in the region of Çayırova, in the region of Darica, in Gebze, in the province of Gebze, in Dilova; they all come and go from Istanbul. Tomorrow, this technical university, the student from the technical college we changed his name to, he's going to come back from there, and the professor's going to come back because his location is wrong. That Institute was one of the two institutions in Turkey that you tried to close. They had graduates and PhDs, and then they got a grad student. It was an Institute for Research and Development. It's not right to close. That Institute had to be run according to its true purpose. Turkey really needs this, but Gebze's technical university had to be set up in another area to connect the student to the city of Gebze. Those areas are available, too. A friend of mine just explained it to me. Two military areas of 600 acres, 700 acres, 900 acres were evacuated at Gebze. Instead of going after the City House or taking a run at its destination, a real Gebze university could have been established there. The Gebze region is currently contributing 4 per cent to the illegal national product. That's a huge number. In Turkey, the number of patents in 50 districts was 250. Only that region produces 129 patents at RD headquarters. Look at this area like this. This area deserved a real college investment, but we're dealing with a hoax, we're dealing with a mistake. We don't just download the sign and download the sign of the Gebze Institute of High Technology and write it down and give Gebze a university by being the same, the same, everything, the same detail. Yeah, I'm running out of time. We'll say yes to my friends' offer, and we'll say yes as a group to Gebze's technical university, but I don't think the college romance in Gebze will end by saying yes to that offer. Why shouldn't this be like this? Because I say there are 81 provinces in Gebze, as I just said. Our citizens who migrated from the provinces of Gebze are living in the form of ghettos, like the Turks in Austria and the Turks in Germany. No one says I'm from Gebze. No one says I'm from Bigeli. When you ask me, I'm from Sivas. I'm from Bayburt. He says, "I'm from Sinop. I'm from Sinop." Our citizens say, "We can't catch the spirit of Gebzeli." You know why we didn't catch him? If you set up the university outside Gebze (Gebze), you will not be able to catch the present place. If you do not expand social donuts, if there is only one cinema in a city of 600,000 inhabitants, if there are no theatres in a city of 600,000 people, if there is no area in which 600 thousand people live, you can put people on the street after 6 p.m., you can't develop urban awareness there. What would be the greatest contribution to the development of this urban consciousness? Gebze should have had a technical university, but in the area where it is located, the institution's conversion to technical university will remain just a name; they will continue to travel from Istanbul with its student, again with its professors; my Gebzim will not be aware of whether there is a university again in the city, or not. So, my dear friend here, when we were saying things around here, we would have done something. When we said, "I wish we could've done it, except Gebze is a university -- which is a university -- if we could all have won a second university together, if only you hadn't rejected our proposal, we wouldn't have lost two and a half years, and today, there, we'd all be proud of the future of Gebze County."
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0078par0028	Thank you, Mr. Akar. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, please come in.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0079par0031	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on Article 2 of Law Proposal 645. On this occasion, I salute you all. We're dealing with a bill for the establishment of a technical university in Gebze. First, we wish this university, Gebze, and our nation, good luck. What needs to be focused on is what they do in these universities. Colleges have scientific education, universities have human education. A grown man is the rarest element of the future and today. You can only get a grown man through education. Education is what one needs most after bread. We can't afford to leave the vital education process to chance, both for individuals and for the country. The policies that will be implemented in education must be shaped according to the national and strategic goals of the communities. The national goals are those of the community that ensure the country's yesterday, present, and tomorrow in the common denominator. It is wise to remind once again the key elements that are effective in the human personality. Generally, genetics, family, environment, group, media and education are the main factors that are effective in the human personality. Education is the most important thing that shapes the future of human beings and the future of the country. Education allows the individual to consciously recognize his identity, and the uneducated person does not have the ability to use his potential values positively and systematically. Hence, today, an uneducated person is treated as a cripple in many places. In New York, people who go to school for less than 12 years are treated as cripples; they are hard to hire, social workers who decide how to live for them. This is an important indicator of how important developed countries are to education. Colleges are organised places of higher education. It's the universities that are so important that human education and education are given at the highest level. So far we've been talking about something good, like a high-tech institute being turned into a university. But before we get into this for the greater good of society, I'd like to think about college and academic problems. The AKP, which has been at work for 12 years, has opened a large number of universities, but has lowered the quality of universities' education. During the AKP's rule, university academic staff's wages and wages remained at a shameful level. During the AKP, universities were silenced, with incredible developments happening in Turkey, while universities were silent. This is because of the oppressive and totalitarian practices of power. The AKP sees power as a cadaver that can save all kinds of savings, especially on the judiciary and educational area. In both areas, a strategy is applied in the form of a koy-lift, a puzzle, a trial-wrong, a regression. With a law clause, the Ministry of National Education has disabled all the experience of national education, all of its savings, all of its expertise. What did he do with the law on the classrooms we took out last time? From the moment this law was passed, the duties of all school principals, national training assistants, national education directors, undersecretarys, assistants, branch managers, and branch managers have been reduced. It's a pirate mindset. I don't know about Castro, but it's a Stalinian design, and you're taking out 8,000 school principals in an instant. You're in the position and position to consider the school principal a job that anyone can do or manage as a job that anyone can do. There's nothing acceptable about that. On the other hand, the AKP has repeatedly ignored the cost, psychology and sociology of university-related buildings, structures, construction and tenders, but within universities, professors and academic staff. Nowadays, there is a study to increase the wages of academic staff, but it seems that the increase to academic staff's wages has been kept on a very small scale. The AKP's proposal also forgot to increase salaries and wages for experts among academic staff at the university. The increase to academic personnel must be high enough from universities not to kidnap the quality of the staff, and experts must take advantage of the increase in wages. With the Gebze Institute of Higher Technology, the Gebze technical university is a step forward in the context of education. Based on the site of the Gebze Institute of High Technology, it is located in the Marmara Region, one of the rare areas where land, air, sea and railway intersect. The establishment of the Institute of Energy Technologies with the current bill has been useful and will be. In particular, energy is the primary responsibility for our foreign trade deficit. Turkey's thermal gas, HES, wind and even nuclear power plants need to minimize this dependency. The production of electricity depends on natural gas is not sustainable. This chokehold must be overcome by relatively low nuclear power plants, thermal and resource dependency based on our own coal quality. In particular, with the experience of TÜBITAK, the Gebze Institute of Technology or Gebze Technical University must be merged. As soon as possible, both academic and available manpower in this area must be developed. It is said that the planned faculty can achieve this goal. Biotechnology and nanotechnology can now be expressed as the final point of science in the world, and there is no escape from it. The 27th High Council of Sciences and Technology has decided that the areas of the next period will be biotechnology, biomechanic and biomalized. Besides, nanotechnology won't be able to distinguish from this. Now, nano-level devices, materials, are all over the world. In this sense, Gebze's technical university will be almost a pilot's university at the universities to be established. Again, such universities will be able to develop the manpower needed through close cooperation with TÜBITAK institutions. The only institution that can successfully perform these trainings will be biotechnology and nanotechnology schools, which will be established with the support of TÜBITAK institutes. The faculty of clean production, land and marine sciences, transport technologies, faculty of management systems, faculty of defence technologies, faculty of IT technology, faculty of architecture, design and construction technologies is another faculty that will be established. In these areas, the RD services our country needs are largely provided by TBITAK institutes. First of all, there is a need for educational institutions to work with institutions in one-on-one coordination to meet the human power that institutions need and transfer the information and technology produced by institutions into our industry, and they will be able to coordinate the needed coordination. It will be possible for students to deal with real problems and projects during their studies to transfer experiences to students and from there to industry. As a result, these new universities can only be achieved with the integration of TÜBITAK and Gebze's technical university. For this reason, Gebze wishes all of you all the best to our country, our nation, that the university of technology should be founded free of the ideological, political, non-committee, confederate postings.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0080par0044	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. There's a motion on matter that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Box 2 of Law Proposal 645. In addition to the article, we offer and propose that the Assoc.ent staff, which is listed on the list No. (1), will be replaced as.125,..................................................................................... Mehmet Ali Okur Ali Halaman Ilyas Candy Lütfu Türkkan Reşat Right Alim Light Ahmet Duran Bulut Sumer Oral Haydar Akar Does he agree with the motion, Commission? We give proper consideration, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0081par0059	We agree.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0082par0060	Motive...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0080par0061	Read the reason. It is intended to increase the professor and assistant professor staff. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following article has been added to the Constitutional Court of General Staff No. 190, dated 3-13/12/1983. The EK MADDE 16-Gebze Technical University included additional staffs on the list (2) to be used as part of the Gebze Technical University. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The 39th order of the "High School Board, Universitys and Institutes of Technology" of the Covenant No. 5018, dated 4-10/12/2003, was changed as follows. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 5-20/12/2013's 2014 Central Management Budget Act No. 6512, under the Code of Law on the Staffs of Higher Education Institutions 78, under the Code of Law on General Staff 190; references made to Gebze High Technology Institute of Gebze Technical University. There's a motion on matter that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 5th amendment of the current Law Proposal 645 rows be changed in the following way. Mahir Ünal Haydar Akar Lütfu Türkkan Justice Zozani İsmail Kashdemir Mehmet Ali Okur The following article has been added to the Law No. 5, 2809. The reference made to Gebze Technical University of Technology under the Law Act No.190 by the Court of Law on the Staff of Higher Education Institutions 78, and to Gebze Institute of Higher Technology, dated 20/12/2013. Commission, do you agree? We give proper recognition to the State of Emergency (Osmania). Government?
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0083par0089	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0080par0090	Read the reason. In accordance with the law-making technique, the framework is added to the article. In addition to Law 2809, the provision will be provided. Otherwise, the provisions that cannot be added to the law will result in its participation in the legislation. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the clause to your votes within the agreed motion framework: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 6-2809. GRADUATION documents and diplomas to students registered at the Gebze Institute of High Technology at the time of the Act are issued by Gebze Technical University, as requested by the Institute of Education. Students of faculty and institutes whose name has been changed on the day this Law is adopted continue to study according to the legislation before the publication of this Law. The problems that will arise in implementing this Law are resolved by the decision of the Higher Education Board. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 7- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 8-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the full offer to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The offer has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. However, I'd like to say something, Councillors. There was talk of those who worked for this Gebze Institute of High Technology...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0084par0109	You got it, Kurt...
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0080par0110	...but I would like to remember the late Alaettin Kurt.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0084par0111	Thanks. God bless you.
tbmm-2014-10-21sit04spe0080par0112	They had great efforts to establish this Institute of Technology in Gebze. May God have mercy on him. I'd like to speak for all of you. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 22nd 2014) that we discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to meet with the draft and proposals of the law. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good night.
