tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0001par0001	Members of the Parliament, according to Articles 109 and 110, 123 and 124 of the Constitution, I will open the 134th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which has been called upon by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, to read, discuss, and vote of confidence, according to Article 93 (93) of the Constitution and Article 7 (7) of the Civil Charter of Turkey, on the call of the President of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President. - We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in five minutes' time. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. We're going on the agenda. I'm reading the extraordinary call of the President's office, which is part of the agenda: Turkey Reported to Grand National Assembly Chairman The Grand National Assembly of Turkey; 109 and 110; 123 and 124th Articles of the Constitution; 14 p.m. on Monday (September 1st 2014) under Articles 7 of the Constitution and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Articles 7 of the Constitution for the Council of Ministers established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu in accordance with Articles 123 and 124. I'm calling an emergency meeting at 00. I'd like to ask the MPs to attend the General Assembly meeting at the appointed time and day. It has been presented to your knowledge. Congressmans, there are presidential statements regarding the extraordinary call for a meeting, and I'm reading them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 15/8/2014 by the High Election Board and 19638395-050-S 2014/3719-9744. On Sunday, August 10, 2014, I am elected President by the public in the general vote. As part of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the Fifth Amendment of the President's Election Act No. 6271, it has been requested that Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu act as Prime Minister until the new Prime Minister is appointed and that the current Council of Ministers shall continue its duties until the new government is established. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. I'm now reading the next presidential review of the commission for the re-establishment of the Council of Ministers: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Konya MP and Justice and Development Party Chairman Mr Ahmet Davutoglu were appointed to restore the Council of Ministers. For your information. It has been presented to your knowledge. And now I'm going to make you read the presidential statement that the Council of Ministers, established by Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, has been appointed. As you know, according to the 124th Amendment of the Interior Charter, requests to be spoken on the Council of Ministers programme can be made to our presidency after the reading of the presidential letter on the new Council of Ministers' list. Therefore, after the reading of the thesis, word requests will be recorded by the clerk members. Now, I'm going to make you read the thesis: In accordance with Article 4 of Law 27/9/1984 and Article 3046, four ministers have been appointed to serve as Deputy Prime Minister. [[3/1563]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 28/08/2014 and 68244839-150. Our number 01-1-428. On the recommendation of Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu; 1- The Ministry of the New Ministers has been appointed to the Ministers of the Council of Ministers, who are listed on the additive list under Article 109 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. In accordance with Article 4 of Law 2-27/9/1984 and Article 3046, four ministers have been appointed to serve as Deputy Prime Minister. For your information. 1 Konya MP Ahmet Davutoglu Prime Minister 2 Assistant Prime Minister Bulent Arinc 3 Ankara MP Ali Babacan Deputy Prime Minister 4 Ankara MP Yalçın Akdoğan Deputy Prime Minister 5 Numan Survivor Deputy Prime Minister 6 Yozgat MP Bekir Bozdağ Minister of Justice 7 Sakarya MP Ayşenur Minister of Islamic Family and Social Policy 8 İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır Minister of the European Union 9 Kopeeli MP Fikri İl Science, Industry and Technology Minister 10 Şanlıurfa MP Faruk Çelik Minister of Labor and Social Security 11 İstanbul MP İdris Gülluce Minister of Environment and Urbanism 12 Antalya MP Mevlüt Sargeglu Foreign Minister 13 Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekci Minister of Economy 14 Kayseri MP Taner Star Energy and Minister of Natural Resources 15 Samsun MP Akif Çağatay Minister of Youth and Sports 16 Diyarbakır MP Mehmet Mehdi Eker Minister of Foods, Agriculture and Petting 17 Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli Minister of Customs and Trade 18 Efkan Ala Interior Minister 19 Bingöl MP Cevdet Yılmaz Minister of Development 20 Adana MP Ömer Çelik Minister of Culture and Tourism 21 Batman MP Mehmet Simsek Minister of Finance 22 Eskişehir MP Nabi Avcı is Minister of National Education 23 Sivas MP Ismet Yılmaz National Defence Minister 24 Afyonkarahisar MP Veysel Eroğlu Minister of Forest and Water Affairs 25 Edirne MP Mehmet Muezzinoğlu Minister of Health 26 Karaman MP Lütfi Ivan Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Mr. President. - It's been presented to your knowledge.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0083	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0001par0084	Your commitment demands are...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0085	Sir, I want it now. I don't need a student. According to the Civil Code, I would like to speak now. I wanted the first word. Sir, there is, here's the Civil Code, it's in the transcripts. The Civil Charter says that the list of the Council of Ministers...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0001par0086	Mr. Young, written requests, members of the clerk's office...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0087	No, sir, I don't want it in writing. I want it verbally. No, I want it verbally, sir, it's right here.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0003par0088	Clerk members record it, clerk members.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0004par0090	Sir?
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0091	According to this decree by the Interior Charter, after reading in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has been submitted to your information. After it has been called, a statement is asked on this statement. Well, now I've asked for it.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0004par0092	We've made the announcement, sir. Okay, it's being recorded.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0093	No, but... you know, I wanted to, I wanted to.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0004par0094	Okay, you asked for it, it's on record.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0002par0095	I get it. If it's taken, I mean, there's no need for any more written application.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit01spe0004par0096	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0004par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 134th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, under Articles 123 of the Constitution and the Civil Code of the Constitution, the Government Programme shall be read in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at the latest by the Prime Minister or a minister within a week of the establishment of the government. According to this, Mr. Prime Minister, do you have a date in mind to present the Government Programme to the General Assembly?
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0005par0004	Today.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0004par0005	Yes, today. Mr. Prime Minister, they want to present the Government Programme to the High Council today. There is a recommendation from the Council on this matter, and after I complete the proposal, I will fulfill it. Members of parliament, under Article 109 of the Constitution, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Bürmiş and Minister of the Interior Efkan Ala will have to take an oath under Article 112 of the Constitution. Now I would like to take the oath of Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivor to the stand.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0006par0012	The presence and independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0007par0018	Mr. Numan, I remind you of this.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0004par0020	Mr. Pine, please...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0006par0023	That I will uphold the rule of the nation, the rule of law, the democratic and secular Republic, and the principles and teachings of Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0008par0025	Mr. President, would that be a shameful thing to do? It's always the shame that happens in this House.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0006par0026	I swear on my honor and honor in the presence of the great Turkish nation that I will not abandon my rights and fundamental freedoms in the sense of peace and prosperity of society, national solidarity and justice.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0009par0028	Thank you. I now call Mr. Efkan Ala to the stand for an oath. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] [[Minister of Interior Efkan Ala has sworn in]] [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] Thank you. There is a Council of Ministers proposal for the Council of Ministers regarding the Council of Ministers: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at Monday's 1/9/2014 meeting. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The reading of the 62nd Council of Ministers Programme on Monday (September 1, 2014) and the meeting of the Union of the Council of Ministers on Thursday (September 4, 2014) will be held on Saturday (September 6, 2014), and the Joint of the General Assembly on Thursday (September 4, 2014) will be held at 14. At 00 p.m., it's 12 o'clock on Saturday, September 6, 2014. Starting at 00, reading of the Council of Ministers Programme on Monday (September 1, 2014) and meeting on Thursday (September 4, 2014) on the Council of Ministers programme, and the vote of confidence on Saturday (September 6, 2014) will be part of the agenda and will continue working until the completion of the schedule of that day, until Saturday (September 6, 2014). In talks on the Council of Ministers' Programme, talks on behalf of government and political party groups are 40 minutes (which can be used at this time by two speakers at the most) in ten minutes, It's recommended. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, we are now moving on to the special agenda section, according to the decision taken. I would like to call Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to the stand to read the Council of Ministers Programme. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0061	Mr. President, in the name of the 62nd, Justice and Development Party of our republic, I salute our beloved nation and you valued MPs. I wish our 62nd Government Programme to be good for our nation and our country. On this occasion, I give thanks to all the states and politicians who have served our country since the founding of our republic, to be able to grow, to move forward, to contribute, to the struggle for democratisation, especially to our republic's founder, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to my predecessor, the fallen Prime Minister Adnan Menderes. Right at the beginning of my speech, I wish the election of the presidency, which took place 20 days ago, on 10 August 2014, would be good for our democracy, for our country, for our nation. August 10, 2014 was a very meaningful day in our country's political history to be remembered with pride. The presidential election is a major threshold for our political history. Happily, in the first presidential election in our republic's history, our dear nation went to the polls with a high motivation, with a strong determination, and directly determined the 12th President of the Republic of Turkey without giving up the second round. On this occasion, the 12th President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been elected President of the Republic of Turkey, congratulates you once again, and I wish you all the best. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the direct determination of our President by the public has no doubt given a whole new meaning and dignity to the presidency's office, which has been abused by guardians in the past as a subject of crises. With this election, the doors of the new Turkey are wide open. On August 10, the process of building the new Turkey began. Without steps and reforms in the last 12 years, no doubt, we would not be able to talk about the new Turkey today. With our nation's direct choice of president and our government working together and in harmony, of course, it will produce a great synergy. This synergy will further investigate national power and national will. In the new era, as a elected and powerful President, a elected and powerful Prime Minister and government, we will strive to serve our people in a much more effective way. I would like to point out that so far, the AK PARTY governments have stood up and acted not only for the purpose of building a state, a policy, an authority, but for a new civilization in our country and in the world. In this framework, the 62nd government, like the previous EC PARTY governments, takes on historical responsibility in a critical period of our country, and sets out to carry on our march of civilization with the same determination and determination. Last Friday, we announced the names of the members of our cabinet. The 62nd government will be a strong bridge to meet its bright past, the bright future that it has set before it. The crowning of what has been done in the last 12 years will be the basic mission of our government. The vision of 2023, which we predict to achieve with a second change and transformation period, is no longer a distant vision. And in the new era, we're determined to work with love, excitement, enthusiasm, to work with the experience of the four AK PARTY governments that came before us in order to improve our country in a rapid, stable, human-oriented way. Our goal is to reach a far more powerful, prosperous, respected and democratic Turkey, a country that is modeled for its economy, science and technology, politics, social and cultural policies. The foundation of all our policies will be to meet the demands and expectations of our people. We are aware of the magnitude of our responsibility, but we will carry the sacred trust on our shoulders with care and honor. We will not be a country set by others. On this occasion, I would like to stress in particular that while we are implementing our economic and social policies effectively, on the one hand, wherever it may come from, we will continue our fight against all the former and new assets that are threatening our national security. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] The only roof where all of our country's problems are discussed freely and different solution proposals are presented and final decisions are made by the national will, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Those who seek to revive the understanding and practices of former Turkey's guardians will find the nation and its representatives. Mr. President, our dear nation of lawmakers has renewed its trust in our power by increasing the vote of our three-term party, one after the other, in a rare way in our history of democracy, the last one in June 2011. The March 30th local elections and the August 10th presidential election have made it clear that our people are determined to maintain strong stability in the administration. All these achievements written in in indelible letters in our political history also increase our responsibility and our zeal for service to our beloved nation. With our personal and corporate experience, we will unite our unrelenting excitement, and we will continue to be servants and not masters of this nation. Our nation sees our House as the address of all problems and has high expectations of our coven. It is our duty to embrace the nation, to build the new Turkey together, with its power, its opposition, and its great responsibility under the roof of the High Assembly. The Justice and Development Party has put old Turkey's vicious politics behind its heads, representing a new policy from the beginning, representing the new Turkey. Over the years, the political institution, which has been battered, eroded by trust, has lost its ability to represent the nation, has successfully rebuilt its power, along with the AK PARTI staff, which has taken its power from the nation's will. The foundation of this new construction process is an understanding that recognizes human honor as central. It's our duty to protect human honor. The essence of this honor is the assurance of freedom and security. It is not possible for an unsecured person to be honored, to have the freedom of the person whose safety is threatened, to feel free. For him, we've always defended this balance of freedom and security and harmony from the first government programs to this day. We now say once again that freedom of thought, freedom of faith, freedom of speech, freedom of enterprise in Turkey is guaranteed by the AK PARTY governments. Mr. President, as valued lawmakers, as the EC PARTI government, we've overcome so many internal and external harms, so many problems, so many difficulties, we've overcome all kinds of provocations and measures to weaken the democratic political institution as a whole. As we persevered in our struggle with these structures, we also took possession of the will of the people and of the trust that they had entrusted us with, and we did not compromise the bread and freedom of our nation. However, we have also implemented many reforms, described in public as the unsettled revolution. In all the reforms we've done, in the silent revolution, we've had our nation and our Parliament, the greatest supporter of the national will, in the process of getting through all this. I believe that from now on, the construction process of the new Turkey will be addressed to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and its highly valued members. It's a duty that our people have demanded of us to fight with determination in law against our democracy and against our national security. In this regard, we will not submit to any antidemocratic pressure, we will not tolerate any steps; we will take the necessary steps, we will focus on dialogue, the pursuit of reconciliation, and the cooperation of our parliament, and we will proceed on the course it has set. Mr. President, this program, which we offer to your appreciation and await your confidence, will open the second phase of the new Turkish launch, strengthening the position we deserve in our region and in the world as the rising country of the 21st century. The basic choice we will make in the coming period is clear: to raise and strengthen New Turkey in all areas. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been the most sensitive democraticization of the area on which we stand as the AK PARTI government, which claims to give Turkey a new policy, on the basis of breaking and expanding the shells of Turkey. As EC PARTY governments and its government, we have made major reforms in democratisation. We view democracy and democratization as a dynamic process, and we consider people and society as the primary subject of politics. With that understanding, we are determined to continue our struggle for democracy in our past four governments by accepting the spirit of time, the needs of the period and the needs of the social demands, by deepening it in our vision of 2023. We're building our march of democracy on the removal of obstacles between society and politics and the state. To make society the subject of politics, in all our governments, we waged an active fight against the custody system that pawned politics and the will of society. We have struggled to transform and democratize civilian and military bureaucratic institutions that are fundamental to the custody system. We ended the era of non-political intervention and influence. In our 12 years of struggle for democracy, we have instilled confidence in the nation, the people, the referee, the democratic process, and the mechanisms. We will continue by deepening this democratic heritage created by past EC PARTY governments, which we will add to the tuition of the new Turkey. In the new Turkey, institutions and actors will have political power only within the scope of the authority and legitimacy they receive from the nation. We will never tolerate the abolition of the rights to govern the majority, and we will deepen the participant democracy in this framework. On the other hand, depending on time, space, culture, or belief, he will not be indifferent to discrimination in rights and freedoms, but we will speak more strongly of the rule of law, and we will continue to uphold the rights and laws of our citizens to the end. No citizen of ours will be caught in a state-based roadblock because of the values he believes in when he's using his rights and freedoms. As a result of our reforms in the field of democratisation, the EC PARTY has become our nation's only political trust. Thank God for old Turkey's habits, old state reflexes, are largely in the past today. We no longer have headscarved daughters who have been turned away from the gates of the state, who are persecuted because they speak their native language. Our Alevi citizens no longer have to hide their identity. The property of non-Muslim community foundations is being returned. To all ethnic, religious and religious communities, heads open, peasant or urban, male or female, poor or rich, we stand at equal distances from one or all of our citizens, and we aim for Turkey, where each individual will take the most advantage of its basic rights and freedom. Before ethnic, religious, and religious belonging, we embrace the concept of historical friendship, citizenship. Our goal on the road to New Turkey is to implement an understanding that embraces everyone, regardless of their ethnic identity, religion and faith, bringing them to a democratic collective consciousness based on equal citizenship and universal principles and values. As the 62nd Reich, we now aim for a Turkey that respects different lifestyles and guarantees them. We will continue to be an opening power, not an obstacle to personal freedoms. Mr. President, our most important modernisation project since the declaration of our republic, our accession process of the European Union, has been placed in a systematic framework during the AK PARTY administrations for the first time, and has become part of the political vision. The goal of full membership, which was set when accession talks began, continues in the same way today, despite EU-based delays and obstacles. Despite the political bloc over 17 chapters, 14 chapters have been opened and 1 chapter is temporarily closed. As it is known, our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has declared 2014 to be an EU year and has once again demonstrated his commitment to the process. In this framework, the National Action Plan for Participation in the EU will be implemented, covering the 2014-2017 period, in order to give the EU process a new momentum and speed up the work of reforms in each area. Despite all the challenges of the process, despite all obstacles, our government will continue its stable and stable policy on EU membership. Our goal is to crown the 100th anniversary of our republic with EU membership. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the things that we've been seriously focusing on in the programmes of all EC PARTY governments is the new constitution commitment. The existing Constitution does not have democratic balance and control tools. The basic logic is that guardian structures control the will of the nation. The rigid centrifugal structure prevents participation. We believe that a new constitution should be replaced by this constitution, which is imposed on society, exclusive, based on community engineering. In this direction, there is a serious consensus in every part of society. There's basically no real obstacle to creating a capacitor, hugger, complementary, liberating civil constitution. The new Turkey must now be stopped from being a participant, pluralist, liberal democratic and civil constitution promise. New Turkey must be governed by its new constitution, civil and democratic. As in the days of our past governments, in our 62nd government, we see it as one of our main goals, not only the EC PARTY, but the expectation of all political parties and elements of civil society. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, again, in this new era, we will not hesitate to demonstrate our determination in the areas of social integration and resolution. So far, our governments have demonstrated the will to resolve untouchable headlines on the agenda of the republic's history, in order to strengthen the institution of brotherhood, the climate of unity and unity, the destruction of the walls between the state and the nation. The democratic expansion, national unity and brotherhood have contributed to the discussion of problems, has increased awareness, has served to spread the resolution's will to a broad base. The AK PARTY governments have tried to achieve rights and freedoms equally for all citizens by ending rejection, denial and assimilation policies from the first day they came to power. He implemented the most comprehensive democratic transformation, transformation and normalization processes in history. I don't think it's necessary to remember the steps taken in this frame, but all these issues have already been distributed to you in a very comprehensive form of a book. As the 62nd Reich, we will continue to embrace the Brotherhood Project, which will change Turkey's fate. Our government will continue to continue with the government's 61st government and the framework, along with the law that has now become a state policy, to continue the solution process in a stronger way, to implement new methods needed to ensure that the solution is immediate, and to do the necessary work needed to ensure that every part of society will have this process. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important steps in democratization is, without a doubt, reforms in the field of justice and justice. The vision of our party in the matter of justice and judgment is justice that gives confidence. In the time of our governments, problems with justice were placed on one table and solutions were implemented to ensure that this vision would take place. We've updated our fundamental laws in the field of justice, eliminated antidemocratic trials, institutions and processes, modernised information infrastructure, made comprehensive reforms that conform with the EU, increased our quality of service with modern justice palaces and growing personnel. In the coming period, we are committed to implementing our action plans and rapidly implementing innovations such as law enforcement courts. See, one of our main problems in the field of justice is that some judges take on a political, ideological mission and lose the quality of being a judge and become a party. In a democratic country, it must be our common ideal to put one above the state, the security, and the status quo of justice. The independence and neutrality of the judiciary require that those in charge of the judiciary be committed to the constitutional, law and legal conscientious convictions and reject all other commitments. The independence and neutrality of the judiciary, the destruction of the guardianships intended to be established on the judiciary, the unwavering act of the judiciary to make it a nation's judiciary, will be one of the main priorities of our government. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have made important reforms to the normalisation of Turkey, democratisation of the current EC PARTY governments. In particular, he has demonstrated a determined will to break the influence of traditional, guardian actor and institutions on politics and has made serious progress in democratising the political system. Our governments, however, focused on the goal of building a democratic political system based on national will, have again been subjected to attacks by new guardians with events of February 7th, 17-25 December and following developments. Let everyone know that in addition to the judicial and security bureaucracy, this new focus of custody, which is trying to influence various parts of civil society, will continue to find us in front of it. These international structures, with international connections, have not only become a threat to our government, but a national security issue that aims to bring down its structure, meaning the existence of the state. We will continue to deal with these new guardian structures, or structures that want to design politics in its own way, make the bureaucracy a shield for its own purposes, do not hesitate to use it for its own purposes, threaten national security, or come up with other names. By staying within the law, we will take the most effective position in the face of such initiatives. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to address our security and security policies: We view security services as the basic public service needed to ensure that basic rights and freedoms can be fully used and guaranteed in order to achieve a forward democratic goal. So far, we've adopted a strategic understanding of security services that includes a holistic approach. We've been trying to establish the security of our country, as well as to improve social peace and peace, by implementing more effective and results-taking security policies in every field, from public events to the fight against terrorism. According to data published by Eurostat, Turkey is currently among the lowest crime rates in Europe. Likewise, we are among the leading countries of Europe in terms of crime lighting rates. The EC PARTY has waged an effective fight with organised crime organizations, gangs, illegal structures in the field of security, and will continue to run. We will proceed with great determination from now on, as so far as human rights violations, which are never acceptable in the democratic state of law. The principle of zero tolerance, based on our government, will continue to be implemented. Turkey is no longer a country known for torture. The mechanisms to increase transparency, participation and accountability in security services will be effectively used. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are fundamentally to serving the nation in public administration. The state adopts its principle, as it has been so far, we now desire to implement democratic governance practices through this principle. We consider facilitating our citizens' lives, removing obstacles to the use of basic rights and freedoms as the main mission of public administration. Over the past period, a decisive fight against corruption has been waged, and it will then be carried out. During the 2003-2006 period, seven important international contracts were sided with in this area in an effort to fight corruption effectively. In 2004, the Council of Europe joined the Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO). The fight against accountability, transparency and corruption will be one of the main goals of our fight against democracy and politics. In 2003, Turkey ranked 77th among the 133 countries in the Corruption Perception Index, published by the International Transparency, while in 2013 it ranked 50. We are determined to climb to higher ranks as soon as possible. Our efforts in this way will continue decisively and uninterruptedly under a comprehensive strategy during the 62nd government.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0011par0099	That information is incorrect, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0100	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to address our understanding of decentralisation in the talk of advanced democracy. We see Turkey's central unitary state structure as a structure protecting citizens' basic rights and freedoms. On the other hand, the AK PARTY has always argued that democracy begins in the local community. National priorities and local differences will continue to be the basic principle of meeting public services by making peace, and services that do not have to be run by central administration will be transferred to local governments. We will strengthen the financing and services of local governments, especially their self-inflicted income. We will make arrangements in accordance with the expanding service areas and different tasks and responsibilities of the city's municipalities, which vary according to the quality of service at every level and take into account the spatial features. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are one of the main topics in our 62nd Government Programme. AK PARTY government has one of the most basic ways of living a human being so that the state can live. On this occasion, we also bless Sheikh Edebali. The human resource, which can represent the values of its own civilization at its highest level, has self-confidence, has the skills and the horizon required by today's world, and builds the future with a common mind and organization, is the main carrier of development for us. In developed countries, services that only a part of society can buy are being offered in a large way today as a result of our reforms. Regardless of social identity, income, political bias, regional status, every part of our nation has access to every service equally and fairly, and will continue to reach it. According to the latest data from the United Nations Development Programme, Turkey's success will be evident. Turkey rose 16 digits in 2008-2013, ranked 69 (69) between 187 countries in 2013. Hopefully, he'll get to the top as soon as possible. Our main goal is that this rise will continue at a much greater rate in the coming period, and our nation will reach its rightful place. Our government will continue to defend the transportation of particularly disadvantaged groups to services equally and fairly as a condition of democratisation. Our government is determined to maintain this egalitarian vision so that capital, knowledge, and quality of life do not belong to certain classes, to certain centers. A development process will be carried out within the framework of values such as social justice in New Turkey, the equality of opportunities, the equality of opportunities, the development of society. In this scope, effort will be made especially for our women and young generations to participate in the development process. A generation of crises in the past that have undermined self-esteem and have begun to imagine its future in other geography is now behind us. On the one hand, we will establish stronger bonds with our human beings on Earth, but on the other hand, we will continue to enrich our country's human capital with brain drainage. The new generations of New Turkey will be the owners and the most valuable assets of an active country in its region and at a global level. In addition to our people, our geography will be the basis for all our economic and social policies as a fundamental parameter in the development process. Our policies, which respect political boundaries and make the transition between economic, social and cultural boundaries, will serve regional and global peace, increasing the prosperity of our country and our geography. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, I find it useful to state that the concept of the social state, for the first time, was won by the AK PARTI administrations. The idea of politics, which has been gracious to the nation, has been fulfilled in our governments. We've been working day and night so that no one of us will feel alone, left out, helpless. In particular, we have extended the compassion of the social government to our people, who are low-income, needy, and needy. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as it is known, the subject of education has been considered our country's top priority in the time of our governments. We've raised our share of the budget into education uninterrupted. In 2002, about 10 billion Turkish liras were split, with an increase of more than six stories in 2014, and that amount was 72.6 billion Turkish liras. In the meantime, we've built a more democratic and liberal educational philosophy that respects basic rights and freedoms, based on human rights, and we'll continue by deepening it further. We've taken important steps from free clothing practice to the ban on the headscarf for our teachers, back to the professions of our oppressed teachers on February 28th, to the removal of antidemocratic expressions in the education curriculum. In the same way, we have implemented many reforms from the regulations that pave the way for education in different languages and dialects to the voluntary integration of the Sier Nebi and the Quran lessons. Thanks to these reforms, we have reached high levels of schooling at every level of education in Turkey. Another element of our reforms in this process is the equality of opportunities in education and the improvement of service. Another of the major innovations during our governments is the project to convert private classrooms into private schools. This will put an end to the negativity caused by classrooms that caused our children to be isolated from social life, causing serious material burdens for parents and creating an alternative educational system. In the coming period, it will continue to take steps to address problems related to our educational system with the same determination and speed that will be accelerated to policies and practices that have previously been based on. Another issue that we attribute to a great deal of importance and work on is RD reform. One of our main priorities is a vision of a university based on democratic, liberal and universal values. In this scope, our government, universities, academics, relevant NGOs, trade unions and politicians will bring a draft text to the House where all relevant areas have been taken into consideration. In addition to our government, there are two important concepts that I'm particularly concerned about: civilization and culture. The rebirth of our civilization, we'll work hard to restore our cultural values, we'll do ambitious work in this field. On top of what we've done in the culture field, we're going to apply decisively the work we've started. In 2023, we will take power from our tradition and lead the construction of a new civilization. We'll adopt an equal and embracing approach to all cultural dynamics that exist in society. Our government will approach all cultural identities with a democratic perspective. We will continue to protect our cultural heritage abroad and abroad in a way that will improve the culture, history and aesthetic consciousness of society, contribute to cultural tourism and consider the risk of disaster. Mr. President, good lawmakers, health is one of the most ambitious areas of the EC PARTY governments. The EC PARTY government has all accepted health care as a basic human right, has implemented serious reforms in that area, has initiated practices that are appropriate to our nation's discretion. In the last 12 years, we've made many structural arrangements in health care under the Health Transformation Programme. It's past the times when people who don't have money are being held hostage in hospitals. By uniting public hospitals under one roof, we have allowed all our citizens to receive services from these hospitals. We've opened the doors to college and private hospitals to all our citizens. We made sure that our citizens received health insurance and services from all health care agencies. We've implemented the general health insurance system, where all of our people are on the same standard of health care, where the premiums of the poor are covered by our government, where all of our children under the age of 18 are covered by health insurance. In the 100th year of our Republic, we will make our country an attractive health base not only for our own people, but also for the countries of the region. In New Turkey, we will take every precaution necessary to get our health-designed country into the world's leading countries in the field of health tourism, which is a global brand in health, and we will take the necessary steps. We will also consolidate our reforms in the field of health with the social security field that we consider a public guarantee. AS AK PARTY, the promise to our nation was fulfilled in November 2002, and the goal of creating a sustainable social security system that secures the entire population and all risks was reached in this framework. We didn't get our workers, officers, and BUG-KUR pensioners crushed by inflation. The construction of the social security system in the new era will be our primary goal. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've put people at the center of economic development to improve revenue distribution and to ensure that poverty-fighting policies succeed. With benefits, we've reached about 3 million homes a year. During our rule, we spent about 100 billion Turkish dollars on welfare. In 2002, total social aid spending was 1.3 billion Turkish liras, while during our rule, we increased that figure by nearly 14 times, raising it to 20 billion Turkish dollars in 2013. As a result of the social policies we implemented during our rule, we've come a long way towards fixing the revenue distribution. We will continue to improve and diversify the quality of our services for elderly, disabled and poor citizens in the coming period. Women's rights, their well-being, the removal of the obstacles they face in social life are the indispensable element of our strong public goal. In fighting violence against the woman, we observed the principle of zero tolerance. We've made legal arrangements to prevent domestic violence, ritual and honor killings. Again, we were the first countries to sign the Council of Europe Convention, the Istanbul Convention, unmercifully for this purpose. We have made it possible for our women who are discriminated against by their religious beliefs, who have been deprived of freedom of education because of their headscarf, who have been persecuted, to be able to exercise their right to education and work. We will continue to implement the policies and the work that we've started so that she can become more individual and socially strong. In the coming period, we will increase the efficiency of women's decision-making mechanisms. Our young are today's energy, our futures' guarantees. Our country has more treasure than any other country. During the time of our governments, we took many important steps to help our young ones grow well both in their family and in their schools and in social places, to become conscious individuals, to grow strong both spiritually and physically by culture and sports. By reducing the selection age to 25 ▪, we opened the way for more young people to participate in politics. In the coming period, I find it particularly helpful to emphasize our goal here to reduce the age of selection to 18 ▪. We will take every precaution necessary for our young people to grow up as professional and competitive individuals, without alienating the values of society, with knowledge and experience, from education to employment. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers will be one of the areas where our 62nd government will stand above us most -- urbanism and the environment. To us, the city is the mirror of civilization. Our cities have surrounded and embraced every human being without looking at their social and economic status. While our cities are shaped by the essence of our civilization, there are cities that melt the human being in the core, in the spirit of our civilization. So our vision of the city is also our vision of civilization. Our city heritage is also our collection of civilisations. In the coming period, our policy in all our places, especially our ancient cities, will be a horizontal construction, not vertical. We aim to turn our people into the center of the city, turning our cities into a peaceful, happy, self-sustaining center of life. We've done urban transformation projects to beautify our cities and reform the slums. We've developed disaster-resistant habitats while the urban transformation allows our building stock to be renovated. In 2003-2014, our Prime Ministerial Community Housing Administration (TİKİ) launched an urban renovation of 90,653 housing substantive transformations and urban renovations. 55,197 have been completed and handed over to the rightful owners of these dwellings. In addition, at the same time, we began building 625,000 dwellings with the TOKI hand, and we completed 480,000. As part of the urban transformation, we will continue our work on the goal of transforming 6.5 million units of dwellings by 2023. We are not only responsible for today's Turkey, we are responsible for building tomorrow, for building tomorrow. In 2023, our goal is to transform our cities into human-friendly, environmentally friendly, aesthetic, participating and prosperous cities. In this direction, we'll revisit the zoning legislation in accordance with the needs of the day. We will develop urban design principles and practices to facilitate access to services for special areas, such as those who are disabled, who are old, who are under movement constraints. We will provide more active use of public land in cities on the basis of zoning, economic development, common sociocultural benefits. We will focus on the development of sufficient infrastructure to provide quality and economic housing supplies, and we will provide extensive technical support for those who build their own dwelling. In particular, with the SDUAP project, we will increase the number of municipal populations that benefit from grid drinking and use water to 100 per cent. We will ensure that the drinking and using water is provided with sufficient and proper standards. In the strict waste management, we also increased the quality of the ministry, while providing the larger masses with these services. In 2002, we serve 23 million people with regular floor waste storage facilities, serving 46.5 million citizens today. Our goal is to deliver these services to the entire urban population by 2023. Mr. President, we have started a new era in our country in environmental policies and practices as every EC PARTY government in office since the end of 2002. We've taken significant steps in protecting the environment, cleaning up all kinds of pollution, planting, renewable energy and energy efficiency, conservation of agricultural soil, access to drinking water. For the first time in the history of the AK PARTY administrations, we've given modern environmental technologies and treatment facilities to our country for the first time. In addition to the human health of environmentally sensitive activities, we have started the process of green growth by moving forward from the fact that green technologies, green jobs, are preparing new opportunities. We're going to implement integrated public transport systems supported by smart systems in major cities. We're going to expand the electrical railway lines and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To small hydropower plants, we will bring environmental sensitivity to the top of the world regarding the HESEs, effectively implementing the necessary arrangements to do so quickly. We'll speed up efforts to create integrated waste water and water management systems in the basin. Of course, I would like to proudly commemorate the work of our forests over the last 12 years. Turkey has been one of the few countries in the AK PARTI administration to increase forest presence. Our goal in forestry is 2023 to increase forest areas to 23.3 million hectares, which correspond to 30 per cent of the country's facial measurement. Mr. President, we've established a flexible, immediate and effective structure that can intervene by ending the chaos of authority in the area of disaster and emergency management; we've established the Turkish Disaster Response System. We have determined the roles and responsibilities of all public, civil, private sector institutions and organisations to be prepared for the zeroth minute. Hopefully, we'll be serving the integrated system we've built this year. In the unprecedented event, we quickly intervened in the earthquakes of Elazig, Van and Kütahya, Soma mining accident, and in many floods, landslides in our country. Our 2023 goal is to complete transformation and restoration in the disaster management we started in the AFAD co-ordination, creating a disaster-resistant country and society. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in the coming period, we will continue our approach to strengthening the balanced development and competitiveness that put social justice and human centrality in regional development. We will announce plans for the 2014-2018 period of action for GAP, DAP, KOP and DOCAP in our region and in the centre as a result of extensive and detailed work. We'll increase the resources and resources of development agencies. We're going to consolidate the agency's function of being a pioneer and supportive organization, where our people's social and economic development initiatives have responded in every way. We'll strengthen the regional and sectoral system. For the development of the private sector in all our regions, we will spread new financial tools and systems, such as the credit guarantee system, venture capital, at local level, with capacity and flexibility that can operate based on regional differences and priorities. Development agencies will announce 26 regional plans covering the 2014-2023 period in co-ordination, and we will begin implementing them shortly. Our government sees borders with other countries as areas where cooperation between countries will be widespread, integration will be strengthened. In particular, we will implement joint regional development programmes in co-operation with neighbouring countries in land and sea border areas. Under new strategies for rural development, we will further increase the support of 2 billion Turkish liras so far. Mr. President, valued MPs, one of the most important topics of our government programme is, without a doubt, the strong economy. Our economy, which we took over in a deep crisis in 2002, was soon stable and secure; it was transformed into a ground-to-ground, crises-resistant economy. This success is essentially the success of our entire nation; in fact, all of our businessmen, all of our entrepreneurs, all of our investors, all of our investors, all of our producers, all of our COBIs, all of our tradesmen share in this success. Political stability in the last 12 years has laid the groundwork for the implementation of important structural reforms. As a result of the security environment and stability we've built, basic macroeconomic instability, such as inflation and public deficits, which have been an obstacle to our development, has been largely a problem in recent years. So there's a process where we get high growth rates and we take the lead in the world as a rising economy. At the same time, the fragility of the economy has been reduced, while the markets have been freely functioning in a competitive environment. We gave no one the privilege and privilege of providing economic equality and justice for the continuation of our economy's stable growth and trust environment. By running the competition well, we've dominated a standard market economy. We built our economic policies on the principles of trust, stability, harmony, transparency, consistency and predictability. We've made sure that all applications are consistent with each other. We've created a predictable environment for our people and economic decision-makers, providing continuity in basic policies. We've established an accountable understanding in the government. We have shown strong will in fighting corruption, and we will continue to show it.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0012par0151	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0152	We've put in a lot of effort and effort to make sure that no corruption is covered up, that any allegations be examined with precision, that the judicial processes of these matters can work in a healthy manner, and we'll keep putting them in.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0012par0153	Dream, dream!
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0154	Thanks to our economic policies based on these principles, we have become an exemplary country around the world. Our strong economic structure has been effective in exiting the global economic crisis quickly. With the recovery of the United States economy, we continue to take fast and decisive measures to ease the effects of policy change. In the 62nd century, we will continue to take these principles on the basis of the government, and we will continue the policy of stability decisively. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] From a long-term point of view, we're going to draw a line that will help our growth potential by creating solutions to our problems. In this period, Turkey has become an attractive environment for both domestic and foreign investors, with the help of our arrangements, with huge increases in international capital access. In this framework, our external and integrated economic structure with the world will be strengthened by the acceleration of efforts to improve the investment environment. We are aware that sustainable economic development will be possible with an advanced democracy and a fair legal system that operates based on universal norms. In this scope, the predictable and saridity of legislation, the lack of walking backwards, the cleaning of gray areas in the legislation, the care of maintaining earned rights, the quick and consistent work of the judicial system will create a security environment for investments that the economy needs. The main goal of our economic policies is to increase the happiness and prosperity of our people. In today's competitive world, we have integrated our economic policies with strong social policies and started a period of social restoration, knowing that investments in people, human qualities, a healthy social environment are also an investment in our economic potential. The GDP rate for social expenditures including education, health and social protection has risen from 13.5% in 2002 to 18.2% in 2013. The share of social spending is also increased from 32 per cent to 45 per cent in the same period. This framework aims to increase the GDP in 2023 to $2 trillion per person, to $25,000 per person, to increase exports to 500 billion dollars, to 5 percent unemployment, inflation and interest rates to a permanent low and single digits. In the coming period, it is important for this structural transformation to increase production industry's share in illegal domestic product. Our government is determined to do so with an export-based and competitive production structure, giving RD more weight to the private sector leadership. So that this structural transformation can be carried out permanently: We'll increase domestic savings. We will strengthen the price stability, the gains in financial structure and finance policy. We'll develop the capacity for science, technology and innovation. We're going to move on to a high-velocity production structure based on domestic input use in the manufacturing industry. We're going to increase labor efficiency. We'll develop the initiative and support the SMEs. We're going to develop the rights to intellectual property. We're going to use information and communication technologies effectively. We'll improve logistics and transport infrastructure. We're going to announce the action plans for primary transformation programs in the public this year. For the first time, we have set 25 priority transformation programmes in the Tenth Development Plan to achieve their 2023 goals and implement more effectively the policies involved in their development plans. Under the right and reasonable measures, the impact of the global crisis on Turkey's economy was soon eliminated, and our economy quickly recovered in 2010-2013, and our national income increased by 6 per cent. So the highest rate of growth in OECD countries is 10 per person. It rose to $782, and according to its share of purchasing power, our country was ranked 16th in the national income ranking, with about $1.2 trillion in illegal domestic revenues. In particular, during the 2010-2011 period, the current has been prone to an open decline due to measures aimed at reducing the increased current account deficit. Structural measures will continue to continue this trend during the 62nd government period. In 2014, our economy continued to grow steadily. As of the first quarter, a 4.3 percent growth rate has been seized. Domestic and abroad demand is expected to contribute positively to growth in 2014. This year's balanced structure will continue the same way in the future, and it will be the basis of our economic policy. The macroihythm measures that we have implemented in this framework have contributed to a controlled increase in internal consumption and to boost domestic savings. The macrohythm regulations have previously been aimed at limiting the increase in credit volume alone, while the latest regulations also aim to promote domestic production and exports and reduce consumption in sectors where imports are dense. In this framework, we will continue our efforts to provide adequate funding for production and exports. According to the acquisition power parity, in 2002 the per capita income in Turkey increased by 36 per cent of the EU average to 55 per cent of the EU average in 2013. In other words, the difference between Turkey and the EU in this eleven-year period has decreased. In our time of power, financial discipline, strong growth performance, and the decline in inflation could be carried out simultaneously. Thus, the belief that inflation is necessary for the growth that has dominated our country in the past has been broken. Now our businesses can predict and plan the future in a much healthier way, in an environment where uncertainty is dwindling. On the other hand, our fixed-income citizens, who have lost their income over the years in inflation, have achieved a more realistic income increase. We have successfully managed the global crisis with our own policies and resources, without funding from international institutions such as the IMF. We didn't go into debt-related spirals, we didn't go through financial markets. As we have paid off our debt to the IMF, we are now a country that lends money to the IMF and contributes.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0013par0180	You've paid your debt, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0181	During this time, Turkey was entitled to the IMF Executive Board for the first time. Thus, our country is now involved in the decision-making process in the IMF. He's gained a position that's a factor, not a factor. With these positive developments, our country's risk premium indicators have been improved by serious improvements in many indicators of confidence and risk pricing for the future. Our main goal in the coming period is to ensure stable and sustainable growth, increase employment, control the current deficit, strengthen financial balance, maintain price stability and maintain financial stability. With 12 years of gains, we aim to be among the top 10 economies in the world in 2023. As the EC PARTY government, we will continue to implement policies that will encourage our private sector and pave the way for our entrepreneurs. Our goal is to become a society of knowledge, to meet EU standards in all areas, and to have a strong, competitive Turkey on a global scale. In order to achieve their 2023 goals, we will continue our determination to fight fiscal discipline, inflation, and work-based high and sustainable growth. We will continue to defend the release of capital movements and trade. We're going to continue the social restoration process that we've started in the fight against poverty and poverty with strong social policies. As a government, we will continue to consider macroparalystical balances, as well as the needs of our citizens. As a result of the uncompromising fiscal discipline since 2003, public deficits have been significantly reduced. In this scope, the public deficit, which was 10 per cent of the GDP in 2002, was reduced to 2.4 per cent in 2010. The public deficit, which took place below 1 per cent in 2011, 2012 and 2013, is expected to remain stable in 2014. At the end of 2002, an EU-defined stockpile of nominal debt dropped to 36.3 per cent as of the end of 2013. In this framework, with the impact of the global financial crisis, many EU countries have become severely burdened with public finance, while public debt for Turkey is no longer a risk. However, in the coming period, our policy on lowering debt stock will be continued with determination. In 2002, the public-owned interest payments, at 15.5 per cent of the GDP, were reduced to 3.3 per cent by the end of 2013. As a result of a reduction in risk perception, domestic debt rates at 63.8 per cent in 2002 dropped to 7.7 per cent by the end of 2013. A decrease in interest payments has also increased the private sector's investment opportunities. Despite the local and presidential elections held during 2014, no populist policy has been initiated that will burden public finance. This understanding will be maintained in the general elections in 2015. Our income policy aims to ensure that our public revenues are provided with fair sustainable resources. In an effort to avoid unfair competition, to ensure efficiency in resource distribution, to boost competitiveness and public revenues in the economy will continue to fight off the books. It will be our primary priority to account for every penny taken from our citizen. Our public investments have shown a huge increase in all areas, with the help of significant achievements in macroeconomics. The public investment spending in 2002 amounted to $11.5 billion, private sector investment spending $28.4 billion and total investment spending of $39.9 billion, while only public investment spending in 2013 amounted to $39.2 billion, and private sector investment went up to $126.2 billion, total investments went up to 165.4 billion. During the 2002-2013 period, we made a total of $2.2 trillion in fixed capital investments, including $41.4 billion in public investments, $1.8 trillion in private investments. In this framework, we finished public investments in 2014, which averaged nine years in 2002, in 4.4 years. We also plan to invest $250 billion in public investment during the tenth Development Plan, which covers 2014-2018. In addition, we anticipate spending about 100 billion dollars on projects within the scope of public-private cooperation, so that the amount spent on public investments will exceed $350 billion. Our main objective in monetary policy is to maintain and maintain price stability. The Central Bank will continue to independently determine its monetary policy and its monetary policy tools to ensure price stability; it will continue with political will to ensure stability in the economy. The financial sector has been strengthened in every way since 2002. We have implemented a series of regulations that strengthen surveillance and control infrastructure, increasing diversity and depth in the financial sector. As a matter of fact, the Turkish banking sector has a capital efficiency rate of 16.3 per cent as of June 2014. At this rate, Turkey is one of the highest-level countries in both developed and developing countries. The access to capital has been more than the economy needs external resources as a result of the economic and political climate of confidence and stability. The central bank's gross foreign currency reserve increased from its level of $27 billion in November 2002 to $136 billion in August 2014. Export is another success story of the AK PARTY governments. At the end of 2002, export volume -- 36 billion dollars -- reached 152 billion dollars in 2013, despite the negative effects of the global crisis and recent regional developments and crises. We will also transform the structure of exports in the new Turkey. In this transformation, investments based on information, high-tech, high-investigation goods will be supported, and in this way, investments that will increase the share of high-tech products in our exports to 15 per cent. In our exports, RD will continue to work and support for increasing the share of products based on innovation, design and brand-based products. With new investments and transformations in our manufacturing industry, in 2023, we will achieve our goal of exporting $500 billion in assets and $150 billion in service exports. In our exports of goods, our main goal is to receive 1.5 per cent of world exports in 2023. The total international direct investment in Turkey was only 15 billion dollars in the period between 1975 and 2002, while from 2003 to today it increased by nine times to 143.3 billion dollars. In 2011, the GDP was reduced to 7.9 per cent in 2013. We estimate the current deficit will remain at about 6 per cent in 2014. The service trade is another breakthrough. We will improve our foreign trade balance not only with the trade of goods but also with the growing trade of services. By increasing more than 10 floors from 2002 to today, we will become the leading country in the underdeveloped and developing country markets, which will increase the amount of foreign contractor services in 2013 to $50 billion in 2018. Tourism has also grown rapidly in recent years, with the number of foreign visitors to Turkey in 2002 at 13.3 million, tourism revenues at $12.4 billion, while the number of tourists in 2013 increased to $34.9 million and tourism revenues at $32.3 billion. In the 2023 perspective, we predict a revenue of tourism that exceeds 50 million tourists and $50 billion. In 2023, we aim to make our country one of the 10 major trade centers in the world, with innovative approaches and practices, where customs services and trade are made the easiest and safest. In this vision, we're going to implement practices to facilitate trade and build trust. In customs, we will ensure that the only window system and foreign trade transactions are completed from one point. We will increase competitiveness by speeding up border crossings through joint Customs Gate projects with our neighbors and Control in One Stop. We expanded and facilitated consumer rights by renovating the Law on the Protection of the consumer according to today's needs. During the EC PARTY administrations, we have implemented many measures from tax ease to access to financing for our tradesmen and artists. We've reduced interest rates on loans taken by our tradesmen and artists. In 2002, the interest rate paid by tradesmen and artists was 47 per cent, while during our governments, we reduced it to 4 per cent in less than a year-long loans. Since 2002, we have increased the amount of loans given to our tradesman nearly 76 times to 11.6 billion Turkish liras. In 2002-2013, some 870,000 tradesmen and artists took advantage of these loans. Employment is another priority for EC PARTY governments. We've opened more business doors for our citizens with our understanding of the establishment of the government. The turnout for the labour force rose to 50.8 per cent in 2013. The rate increased significantly to 30.8% in women. As a result of these developments, we increased the total employment of 19.2 million in 2002 to 25.5 million in spite of the global crisis. So, in the time of our governments, we opened a new business door for 6.3 million citizens. Turkey has been the fastest among OECD countries to reduce unemployment in 2012, according to 2009. In our country, unemployment is still lower than 10.8 per cent, with an EU-28 average. Our country is one of the four OECD member states that dropped unemployment to this side from 2008. The positive picture is reflected in non-advised and youth unemployment rates. In 2013, unemployment continues in single digits with 9.7%. On the other hand, despite the crisis, total employment has never been reduced. Even in 2009, when the crisis took place, we increased our total employment by 83,000 people. Our goal is to reduce unemployment permanently to 5 percent in 2023. Our government will continue to work decisively, as it has been so far, in order for our employees to gain higher living standards and a greater share of social well-being. The minimum wage, which was grossly 251 Turkish liras in December 2002, rose to gross $1,134 Turkish liras as of today, while the nominal increase in this period was 352 per cent, while the real growth rate was 76 per cent. During the same period, the nominal increase of net minimum wage was 384 per cent, while the nominal increase in employer's costs remained at 300 per cent. As of 2014, the minimum wage has been removed from sub-16 years of age and above. We have increased the number of disabled officers employed in public institutions in 2002-2014 from 6.103 to 34,088, as well as the number of disabled workers employed in public and private sectors from 45,621 to 89,980. During our administration, we will continue to take measures aimed at filling disability quotas in the public and private sector. As a result of these efforts, we reduced the unemployment rate from 52 per cent in 2002 to 35.7 per cent in May 2014. One of the main sources of dynamics in the economy is no doubt the KOBI. We will continue to care about our COBIs; we will support improving the terms of loans and financing; reducing tax, employment and other obligations; developing education and counselling services; developing innovation and entrepreneury; infrastructure, clustering and partnership activities. Mr. President, we've made significant progress in the defence and aviation industry so far. We've transferred the sector's RD expenditures to $1 billion, exports to $1.6 billion, turnovers to $5 billion. We have raised the national supply rate of the Turkish Armed Forces' weapons and equipment to over 54 per cent. We've produced the first tank of Turkey's design, Altay, drones ANKA, Bayraktar and Karayel, the first warship, MPT (first infantry rifle), and the first training simulators. A variety of armored vehicles have been made along with Project Porcupine, which has protected our soldiers against the threat of mines. In our country, 164 drones and four drones have been offered to the service of the Turkish Armed Forces from the mini-animal drone systems that our private sector has built so far, and a group of mini-human drones have been exported. The first Turkish design training aircraft, HURKÜ, has begun test flights. The first production group produced under the ATAK Project has been handed over to the Army Command of helicopters. The mass production of 40km and longer-range obuse and rocket systems equipped with advanced technology has begun, and our CIRIT laser-guided rocket has entered the Turkish Armed Forces inventory and its first export has been carried out. Our satellite launch systems development activities have been initiated to launch our own satellite, significant distances have been taken. Again, construction of SOM missiles, armor-piercing, concrete-piercing missiles for national production in the defence industry has been implemented. The work has begun on the laser-armed, high-altitude, unarmed drone. Our national operating system, the new version of Pardus, is intended to promote use in public institutions and private sectors in the coming period. With projects we run in the defence industry, we aim for a Turkey that designs, produces and exports its own national rifle, cannon, tank, helicopter, aircraft, drones, drones, satellites, subsystems and details. Because the independence of a country without its own defence industry cannot be guaranteed.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0014par0222	You've finished the defense industry, you've finished it, you've exhausted it.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0010par0223	Science, technology and RD will have a much more critical role in the economy of the new Turkey. At 0.53 per cent in 2002, the G.R.E. expenditures increased to 0.92 per cent in 2012. In 2002, the amount of R&D spending, which was 1.8 billion Turkish liras, increased to 13 billion Turkish liras in 2012, so it increased to about 7 times as nominal. In 2023, we aim to increase the share of RD spending to 3 percent. Agriculture is an area of strategic importance for the future and prosperity of our citizens that we consider to be of great importance as the EC PARTY. In our country, we have put together an understanding of economic and social dimensions for our farmers by focusing on structural transformation in agriculture, which supports 6 million people and provides for our people's food. For the first time since 1960, our agricultural sector has reached its most stable stage, which has grown up nine of the 10 years. In 2002, our agricultural additive value, which was $23.7 billion, increased to about $62 billion, and Turkey rose to the 11th ranking in the world in terms of agricultural national income, and Europe to the 1st place in the 4th place. In addition, our exports of agricultural products rose from $4 billion to about $18 billion at the same time. In 2002, the amount of agricultural support with 1.8 billion Turkish liras increased by 5 times, reaching 9.7 billion Turkish liras in 2014. The total agricultural debt volume used to our producers in 2002 was 530 million Turkish liras, while in 2013 it was raised to 17 billion Turkish liras. A total of 8.5 million hectares of waterable land that our country owns is our 2023 goal. In this direction, the area watered down from 4.5 million hectares to 5.9 million hectares, especially during the time of the GAP Action Plan. The 1000-day Pond Project, which has been brought to a significant stage, will provide about 1 billion cubic metres of storage, 212,000 hectares of watering, and will employ about 450 thousand people. The Union Dam and the Blue Tunnel Project, which will significantly contribute to the reduction of water shortages in the Plains of Iconium, is one of the most important. In 2023, our goal is to take food safety to the center, increase efficiency, and be among the top five countries of the world with 150 billion dollars in agricultural revenues, and raise our agricultural product exports to 40 billion dollars. Energy is one of the most strategic areas in today's world. In recent years, we have focused on the creation of sufficient capacity to produce electricity, diversification of energy sources, renewable energy sources and privatisation of production and distribution facilities. In this direction, about 31 years ago in 2002. As of July 2014, we also increased power to 242 billion kilowatts in 2013, with the power of the power board at 67431 megawatts and the electricity production at 129 billion kilowatts in 2002. In this framework, we will evaluate local and renewable energy sources at the highest level in the coming period. We're going to expedite the assessment of our local lignite fields for thermal power plants. Eight nuclear reactors, totaling 9.280 megawatts, will be activated in Mersin Akkuyu and Sinop. An 18500 megawatt plant will be completed to convert local coal sources into electricity. Twenty thousand megawatts of additional power will be provided using close to all of our hydroelectric resources. Important projects such as Ilisu, Yusufeli, Boyabat and Alpaslan II will be completed. In addition, wind power will be increased to 20,000 megawatts, at least 600 megawatts of geothermal power and at least 3,000 megawatts of solar power plants. Thus, the share of renewable energy sources in the production of electricity will be increased to 30 per cent in 2023. We're entering a new phase of solar energy. We started work to build the world's largest solar power plant in Iconia. About $6 billion will be invested in the 3,000 megawatt solar plant. In early 2003, only nine of our provinces had access to natural gas, while in 2013, we dated 72. Soon there will be no more natural gas in our country. We finished building the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Ham Oil Pipeline. We have implemented the Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Project. By raising our share of the Azerbaijan Shahdeniz II Project to around 20 percent, we became the 2nd largest shareholder. We signed an intergovernmental agreement on the Trans Anadolu Natural Gas Pipeline Project, which will transport Azeri gas through Turkey and Turkey to Europe. With the Turkish-Greek Natural Gas Pipeline, we completed the first leg of the South European Gas Ring Project, and began exporting gas to the neighbouring country. We aim for Ceyhan to be transformed into the 2nd largest energy terminal in Europe. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as in previous EC PARTY governments, one of the most ambitious areas of our 62nd government will undoubtedly be transport, naval and communication. We're signing projects that are important on the world scale, that are going to make a sound. Turkey will now become a more comfortable, more comfortable country, via land, iron, air, and sea, at some point. With the investments we're making and the investments we're making, we're making our country the most important link in the world. The projects we run in this area will also have a trigger effect on industry, mining, agriculture and tourism sectors. We are now opening up a period of exciting, tenacious and decisive highways. Not only will the highways within the country be connected with our ongoing feasibility projects, but the north-south-south, east-west axis, and beyond the Caucasus, the Middle East, the West, the Near East connections. Our highways will be uninterrupted from Edirne to Şanlıurfa, from Şanlıurfa to Diyarbakır, from Diyarbakır to Habur. In this framework, we plan to take part in the tender for Ankara-Nünde highway this year. We're building a new highway, parallel to the current highway, which will relieve Istanbul's entrances and exits. We go from Sakarya to Schepeli to İstanbul, from İstanbul to Tekirdağ to Tekirdağ, from Tekirdağ to Çanakkale to Çanakkale, from Çanakkale to Balıkesir to İzmir. Marmara, Aegean, Western Mediterranean, Black Sea, Central Anatolia, East and Southeast Anatolia will be connected by highways. The Third Bosphorus Bridge, the Izmit Bay Pass Bridge, and the Chanakkale Bosphorus Bridge, which we're planning, strengthen our transportation infrastructure from one side, while we provide memorial images to the minds of the world's people. Our vital steps in the transportation of the railroad, which we are ending the years of neglect, will continue. We're going to make it cheap, easy, and quick for people to move their goods through the fast train tracks. We'll continue by increasing the support we've given to the local authorities about moving passengers through an urban rail system. We're going to open transport to the private sector in our railway infrastructure to increase both the competition and the quality and the efficiency of our infrastructure investments. Through the railways, we will connect Europe to Asia and the Middle East, not just on the map, but on the historic Silk Road. As on the roads of the land, we will unite all the country's land with the fast and high standard railway corridors that we will build from Edirne to Kars, from İzmir to Habur, from the north-south axis, from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, from the Mediterranean to the east and southeast. In short, we'll also establish an uninterrupted railway link from London to Beijing. The third bridge, the third airport, Eurasia Tunnel, and the Canal Istanbul project, which will complete and crown these investments, will not only begin for Istanbul, but for Turkey. Turkey is now a country that is coveted by its airline in air transport. Our goal at this time is to further improve the airway transport infrastructure, where each individual traveling on land has access to air transport at a maximum of 100km. In order to benefit more from our seas, we will continue by increasing the work we are conducting. We're going to win three major ports for our three great seas. We will quickly build the ports of Izmir Çanguldak Filyos, Mersin containers. We care deeply about the transportation of goods from the country to the ports and from there to the world market. We will be determined to continue our efforts to produce more valuable, qualified, and special types of ships in our shipyards, to bring our fleet of sea trade to the 10th order of the world, and to ensure that it receives more of the foreign trade. Our goal in the area of communication is to provide fiber access to every home within the scope of the vision of 2023. The public Data Centre and the Public Disaster Rescue Centres will be established to secure the data of state institutions. High-level security measures will be taken in the telecommunications sector concerning the processing of personal data and secession of privacy and against cyber threats. We're going to set up the Turkish Space Foundation, where all activities in the field of aviation and space technology will be coordinated. With our new satellites, our goal is to cover the entire globe. It's our national train, national aircraft, national satellite launch system, national satellite launch system, and central, red elm that we've announced in transport and communications that will lead our country to higher technological products, to increase national revenue and exports. We have the technical element, our financial power, but most importantly, our political determination to achieve this goal. Mr. President, foreign policy is one of the most important construction sites of a strong and respected Turkey target as an EC PARTY. The transformation in foreign policy can't be considered apart from the massive transformation of the EC PARTI, which has taken power from the nation for twelve years in democracy, human development and strong economy. After many years, Turkey has become a country that is not content with foreign relations, but is confident in foreign policy. Today, Turkey is based on the principles of justice and cooperation, which are our historical mission to help the oppressed, victims, refugees and needy throughout the world. Our vision of civilization has strengthened and enriched our foreign policy. Today, this mission will be carried out with determination on the basis of Turkey's efforts to help the oppressed, the victims, the refugees and the needy throughout the world. One of the greatest achievements of 12 years of our power is that we've invested foreign policy in our nation. In addition to all of our ministries, all of our public and civil society organizations, including TİKA, Turkish Airlines, Turkish Foreign Unions and Associations Presidency, Yunus Emre Foundation, AFAD, Kızılay, Public Diplomacy Coordinatorship, have been highly active in all parts of the world in full harmony. The deepening of our relations with European and transatlantic institutions, which are the main anchors of our foreign policy with politics, economics and defences, and our commitment to membership in the European Union as a strategic goal will continue to be one of our top priorities, as well as our previous governments. The solution to the Cyprus issue and the fact that Turkish Cypriots can take their rightful place within the international community is one of the priorities of our government. Turkey supported the struggles of the brothers and sisters in the Middle East for human honor and freedom in a primitive manner. The protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, the establishment of security and stability in the country, the strengthening of democracy, the establishment of internal peace, the security of our Turkmen relatives and relatives, and the integration of its neighbours and the international community into a state that creates security and prosperity for the region are the basic principles of our foreign policy towards Iraq. One of the most important conditions for maintaining permanent stability in the Middle East is the delivery of the Palestinian issue to a fair, comprehensive and viable solution. Turkey's strong support for the Palestinian National Union government and its strong support for the Palestinian cause will continue in the coming period, as it has always been. Progress in the normalisation process, which began in March 2013 after Israel apologized for the attack on the Blue Marmara, is not possible until Israel's attacks on Palestine and its restrictions on Gaza are over. Over the past three years in Syria, the brutal massacres by the ongoing conflict and the Syrian regime have been a priority on our agenda in terms of regional security and stability, especially terrorism, in addition to the deepening human destruction. With a real political transition process in Syria, providing democratic rights and freedoms that the Syrian people long for, along with all ethnic, religious, religious groups, will be our top priority. In co-operation with the international community, Turkey will continue to demonstrate its original and constructive contribution to the resolution of the conflict. In the Balkans, where we have long-standing historical, human and cultural ties The establishment of peace and stability is one of the priorities of our government. In the coming period, we are determined to maintain and strengthen the momentum caught in our relations with Russia. Our neighbour and strategic partner, Ukraine, are the main expectations of a diplomatic solution to the crisis of territorial integrity and international law. Our priority in the Ukrainian crisis is to ensure that the security and rights and interests of the so-called Crimean Tatar Turks, the original people of Crimea, are extended. Peace and stability in the Caucasus and minimizing tensions and conflicts in the region are our main goal. In this context, our country will continue to strive to resolve peaceful disputes in South Caucasus, ending the invasion of Azerbaijan and Upper Karabagan and removing tensions between Azerbaijan and Armenia. In the coming period, our steps towards normalisation of Turkey-Ermenistan relations will continue in this framework. Our relations with the countries of Central Asia, where we have a unique lineage and language that has given our outside world a unique dimension, have also come a long way, and the Turkish Council has been established. Our work will continue to become an effective international organisation in the future, becoming institutionalized by the Turkish Council. We've put the opening policies in place for Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, and we will continue with determination. In the five years we've left behind, we'll increase the number of embassies in Africa, where we've raised their numbers from 12 to 35. We will continue to contribute to the stability of Afghanistan and Pakistan, where we have historical friendship and brotherhood, to try to strengthen our relations with India, which is considered to be the key political and economic forces of Southeast Asia. Under our policy of accessing new geography, another region where we strengthen our trade and diplomatic ties has increased by nine times in the last decade to an 8 billion dollars in trade with Latin America and the Caribbean. Turkey is the 7th most represented country in the world today, with a total of 222 missions abroad, as a result of the acceleration of our policy of opening to new geography. Since 2002, we have opened 59 diplomatic missions and 44 new diplomatic missions since 2009. Likewise, interest in our country has increased. In 2002, 166 embassies, consulates and international organisations operate in our country, while that number was raised to 252. Another priority as a government is to play an active role in multilateral organizations and to have an active profile. Our country has once again been nominated for the 2015-2016 term under the temporary membership of the United Nations Security Council, where it was elected after 48 years of a record vote. This is the shortest application for candidacy in the history of the United Nations. We will continue to lead such initiatives as the Alliance of Civilisations, as well as the Arabism for Peace. On multilateral platforms such as the United Nations, G20, Islamic Co-operation Organization, the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organization, the Organisation for Islamic Co-operation, the Permanent Committee for Economic and Trade Co-operation (İSEDAK) and the Economic Co-operation Agency, our country's activity is increasing every day. Our country will host the Islamic Co-operation Agency Summit in 2016. Again, Turkey will take over the rotating presidency of G20 (in 2015). Foreign aid is one of the fastest areas our foreign policy has improved in recent years. We have developed a more planned and effective assistance policy in Central Asia, Caucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa, particularly the countries with Turkish republics and Turkish communities. Turkey is now a country that helps, not a country that gets help. (Applause from the Council of Ministers and the AK PARTY) Our country's official development aid rose from $336m in 2004 to $3,276m in 2013. From 2002 to 2014, the number of offices increased from 12 to 40, from 2.241, to 13.076 in more than 120 countries. International aid activities in AFAD co-ordination In 2012, we became the third most helpful countries in the country around the world. In 2013, we continued to be the 3rd world after the United States and England with humanitarian aid of $1.6 billion. In 2013, we became the world's first in the field of humanitarian aid, with a 0.21 percent share in the proportion of these amounts of aid in the gross national product. Our goal in foreign policy is to ensure that our country will be able to contribute to all global and regional issues in harmony with new circumstances. We've come up with a lot of policies that go beyond understanding that our defence of our national interests and our search for international justice and rights are opposing positions. Our goal in foreign policy is to strengthen our country's position as an active and guiding actor in the global field, the founder of order and determination in the mujar districts. In our vision of New Turkey, we predict an open, peaceful, dialogue-based foreign policy. New Turkey will be based on a multi-dimensional and prestigious foreign policy that is effective, upholding rights. New Turkey will be strong, great and leading Turkey. Mr. President, in a unique geography, we can't be too proud to be the representatives of a large nation that has a long history and a lot of civilization, with ambitious goals in the 21st century. Let no one doubt that we will work day and night to serve this holy nation, not to undermine the trust of our House. On its way to 2023, our country has entered its second breakthrough, which is expressed by the concept of Turkey. We'll break it down again, and without fear of change, we'll make the reforms our country needs one by one. Just as we have succeeded in the past, we will carefully follow our goals in the future, and by the will of God, we will fulfill them. We will build the new freer and more prosperous, fairer and more respected Turkey together. While the government's programme is closely committed to our program, we will also demonstrate the flexibility needed in the developing agenda of the world and our country, without losing our general perspective. We will listen to the opinion and constructive criticism of civil society organisations and all concerned parties, especially our opposition parties, and we will conduct our work in dialogue and co-operation. Success will belong to all of us, and it will become the success of our nation by all parties. As always, our government, who will carry out its work in an understanding that embraces all the communities of our community, expects once again the confidence and support of our beloved nation and our great Parliament. We will proceed tirelessly, tirelessly, tirelessly, tirelessly, tirelessly to the new Turkey goal. With our nation, regardless of political opinion, which social, religious, ethnic identity it comes from, together with all our citizens, we will achieve the new idea of Turkey shoulder to shoulder. New Turkey is a grown, improved and powerful Turkey. New Turkey is a country that embraces the whole of society with all its differences and colors. New Turkey will rise on social prosperity, large economy, political stability and forward democracy. New Turkey will be a world state where every human being will be proud to be a citizen. New Turkey will be a leading Turkey with its knowledge, production and management. New Turkey will now be a country that brings new stages, new standards to the world from education to culture, energy to transportation, health to environment, in all areas. New Turkey will be a world-class Turkey from industry to sports, science to export. New Turkey will be one of the world's most important attractions in finance, health, education, culture. New Turkey will be a country that loves each other with all its differences, is united, confident, free, responsible, and virtuous, and once again becomes the center of civilization in the world. New Turkey will be a great and leading country. We wish the 62nd government the best for our country, our nation, and our democracy on its way to Turkey. May God be with us and help us.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0015par0303	Thank you. Congressmans, as per the decision taken, we'd like to discuss the government's programme...
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0016par0305	Mr. President, a program has been read so that one-third of it has not been read, it has jumped at every opportunity. There's no such thing as an informal program.
tbmm-2014-09-01sit02spe0015par0306	Thursday, September 4, 2014, 14 o'clock. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
