tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Crimean Congo MP Reşat True, who wants to talk about bleeding disease and measures that need to be taken. Congressmans, the General Assembly is humming, please be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0002par0008	I have made a promise in many counties in our country about the Crimean Congo bleeding disease and the necessary measures to be taken, and I salute the Grand Assembly. At the beginning of my words, after the terror of the PKK in our country, now we're dealing with ISIS terror organizations in Iraq. After Mosul, the ISIS terrorist group also captured Telafer, Tuzhurmatu, and now it is marching on Kerkuk. Iraq is full of chaos. And the worst damage is being done by the Iraqi Turks. Pesmerge takes possession of the settlements around Kerkuk, and says, "I will not leave this place anymore." Lawmakers, ISIS is also taking over certain areas -- primarily the oil district. It looks like they've made a deal and Iraq is falling apart. We want to know what the AKP's government and government are doing, what measures they're taking. So when we look at our country, our Turkey, and the world, we don't see a good picture at all. Turkey is boiling, neighbouring countries are burning. It's getting worse every day. But from here, I'd like to tell our descendants, Silk, Defne, Omar Khan and Ali Efe, that we can't leave the world. The future of our country seems dark. After all, our grandkids are facing much more difficult conditions. But their grandparents didn't leave a good world for us, a good Turkey. I already see and feel that they're going to blame us. Congressmans, Crimean Congo bleeding disease spreads more and more in our country, taking more lives. Mothers, children, grandfathers, farmers are dying. Nine people have died recently from tick bites in the province of Tokat alone. Unfortunately, the problem continues to increase day by day. But our government hasn't figured out where the tick is coming from, how many people it's hurting, and it hasn't found the drug that's going to fight the tick. We couldn't even find the vaccine. Our people are abandoned to their fate. It's like we're seeing that the Ministry of Health isn't taking this seriously, and we think so. The disease is seasonal. It is generally seen between May and October, but can also be seen in different months. Farm workers, shepherds, butchers, slaughterhouse workers, meat and meat workers, farm workers, livestock workers, veterinarians, many groups, especially health staff, soldiers, campers, are in the risk group. Congressmans, we've been hurt. People are crying out. Sadly, the people of Chorum, Yozgat, Tokat, and the Inner Anatolian region are afraid to go to the field, to the garden. Would the tick stick to me? As a government, we have no right not to help people. The government, the Ministry of Health, has not fulfilled its mandate. Protective medicine is important in this regard. Despite recent developments in treatment, death rates are still very high in these infections. But to identify the source, to find the necessary drugs and vaccines, Tokat must establish a large research centre in the centre, and the study and research of scholars from all over the world must be started in this region. On 9 June, three children's mother Sefika Koç died in the hospital where she was treated. What are we going to tell these mother's three children as a state, what are we going to do? As a result, this disease will spread further when necessary measures are not taken, causing more citizens to lose their lives as of this moment, as of this moment, in the Inner Anatolian Region outside Tokat, from Sivas, and even from Kolya, many cities have experienced serious cases of biting ticks about this disease in a very serious sense. As a result, our country faces a very important problem. All authorities, especially the Ministry of Health, must do very quickly in their own way -- whatever falls on them. I mean, mothers, fathers, children, or why should our people die, precious MPs? I believe that once again the Ministry of Health will hear our call from here and take the necessary precautions, I salute the High Council. (
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Sakarya MP Engin Ozkoc, who asked for word due to the flood that caused the loss of one person in Sakarya and the damage to the heavy substance. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0004par0021	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, there was a flood in Sakarya, and we went there with our fellow MPs. Now, once again, let me rephrase what the congressman friends are doing here, on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Friends, death happens, floods happen, fires happen, we go there as lawmakers. So I went. At the last moment of the flood, a 22 - year - old boy named Tamer Yaman. At the last moment of the flood, the waters of the flood came, pulling him from the bars of the roof, taking him out of the middle of life, causing him to die, leaving him a grieving brother, a mother, and a father. Later, we, the Sakarya MPs, went to Gayve, visited their mother, father, and brother. A day or two passed, and there was death, and buildings that had been destroyed, and fields that had been destroyed. Ten days will pass, a month will pass, and these will be forgotten in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and maybe the MPs will leave them behind in the course of their own lives. We'll wipe out the pain and leave it behind. My dear friends, in the rains of Sakarya, in exactly two days, a 22 - year - old man, Tamer Yaman, died, and we were damaged for 107.3 million dollars. I said, "Yes, I am a MP." I said, "It's stuck to my feet, and I can't sleep at night with my children, here we have built a house with the fate of poverty on the edge of the 25-digit creek bed, the fate of ignorance." Do not leave us to die, condemning us to poverty and ignorance. He said, "Let our government take these 25 digits from here and place them somewhere, put a price on them, and let us pay the price, save our lives, save our children's lives." So I promised that mother as a surrogate. I promised not only to the CHP people, but also to my AKP MP friends in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, but also to my fellow MPs in the MP's Office, BDP MP, HDP MP friends. For that mother shall not burn her heart the day after tomorrow, as the mother of Tamer Yaman, nor shall she lose her child, nor shall she lose her wife, nor shall we forget them, nor shall we be moved into the course of life. My fellow lawmakers, there was a flood in Sakarya, and one person died. There will be other disasters the day after tomorrow. Our job is to take care of our people. Our job is to take care of our dead children. Our job is to look after our people and mothers who can't live in their ruined homes in Geyve, and how will our government take care of us now? I believe the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will do that. Let us take care of this mother, and let us take care of this mother of Tamer Yaman, and of the house of Uludere, and take away the house of Karafurcek, and take away the house of 25, and do not destroy us of our poverty and ignorance. Let us also take care of this mother, and take care of Sakaryah. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0005par0029	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ, who asked about Kazım Karabekir Pasha, who said the Mayor of Ağrı would remove their names from the streets. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own, on behalf of the esteemed MPs, the national fighting hero Kazim Karabekir Pasha and the debate on his name. I salute your high council. Kazim Karabekir Pasha has lived a life of struggles for his country, nation and state. That's why it's in our nation's heart that it has a place and a place of importance. Following recent local elections, the Mayor of Ağrı made a very unfortunate statement and stated that military names should be changed, including Kazım Karabekir Pasha in Ağrı. However, if they can live comfortably there today, they ignore the fact that they owe it to the heroes of the national struggle, particularly Kazım Karabekir Pasha. Those who bring to mind such a change of name are probably confusing national struggle heroes such as Kazim Karabekir, Fevzi Çakmak, Mustafa Kemal, with other coupters such as Cemal Gürsel, the Kenan Universe, or expressing their hatred for the values, common denominators of the Turkish nation, and their past. I'd also like to stress that those who have expressed this change of name should know that the state of Armenia, which was supposed to be built with Sevr, is blocked by the heroics of Kazim Karabekir Pasha and his soldiers.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0007par0035	You must include Ismet Pasha in these names. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0036	Those who ignored Kazim Karabekir yesterday and banned his book are seen to meet with the banned official historians at the same line as Sırı Sakık. This shows that Sırı Sakık has never been seen in the last 12 years of democratic line and is still out of history by continuing the official historianship of the 1930s in the name of political Kurdishism.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0007par0037	Does it suit you not to mention Ismet Pasha? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0038	Honorable MPs, Kazim Karabekir Pasha, in the First World War, and in the İstliklal War, established the people of the region in his heart with his struggle and achievements as Commander of the Eastern Front. In his work from World War I to the end of the Liberation War, he became the conqueror and savior of the east. He is a symbol of resistance that, despite defeat at the Mondros Inkrek, has not given up his army or arms by taking the people of the region behind him. He's the one who flashed the flare that stole the yeast of the Salvation War with this spirit of resistance and freedom. Although the Salvation War was won on the Western Front, it is not wrong to say that Karabekir Pasha's victory over the Eastern Front led to victory on the Western Front.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0007par0039	Why don't you tell me about the victory of the lair?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0040	Karabekir Pasha, despite all the British games, is a great patriotic hero who wrote to the Kurdish tribes in the region and led them to believe in the First World War of Salvation, so that he could provide the lives, rape and freedom of all Muslim people, including Kurds who lived in the East during the First World War and immediately after the Salvation War. But it's sad that an MP and the mayor, who claims to be the so-called Kurdish representative, do not hesitate to attempt to remove his name from the streets. Dear lawmakers, symbols, symbols, are of great importance in making a piece of land a homeland. For him, societies emulate the symbols that will be their own property to the geography they live in. This is sometimes a historical hero, sometimes a temple, sometimes a martyrdom, sometimes a historical memory. These symbols connect both with the past and the idea of the immortality of the nation is put into memory. In occupied countries, the first thing invaders do is destroy these historical memories. That's why hundreds of artifacts, mosques, caravansaray or tribes were destroyed in the Balkans. Now, we're looking at the same deforestation and the effort to convert the country into a geography without any blessings, as well as the attempt to do so here. Karabekir is a symbol of both the Republic and our nation. The deletion of such names is the deletion of the land's title, the eradication of Turkicism in these areas. And Sakık's statement in that direction is not only to remove one person from the dog tags of a piece of land, but to disband this nation's belonging. As an AK PARTY, we will never tolerate it or tolerate it. My daughter Karabekir is a highly trained soldier, but she's just an enlightened person. He's a very good family man, a very careful citizen of law enforcement, a forward-thinking intellectual who deals with art. Dear lawmakers, Karabekir Pasha, who lost their families in the war with the orphanage he opened -- most of them Armenian children -- have helped 6,000 children to recover from the negatives of war and therefore to survive, and therefore to be the father of the orphans, is an ancient hamster. Kazım Karabekir Pasha, who founded the Republic of Turkey, was politically opposed and divided. But he truly believed in democracy, its blessings, and the multiparty life, and there was no hardship that could keep him out of his way. In his belief, Terakkiperver founded and took over the Party. This attempt has led to his execution, but he has not lost his will to fight.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0008par0045	Terakkiperver was not sentenced to death for setting up the Republic Storm. Let's not mess with the date.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0046	On April 19, 1919, when he came to Tripoli and fired his first signal flare for the national struggle, he sat in the heart of our nation for what his official history enforcers had done on the Eastern Front, which they insisted on ignoring.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0008par0047	You're rewriting history.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0048	...a hero, a loving family man, a Democrat who has not given up his faith in democracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a good soldier and politician, Kâzim Karabekir Pasha, remembers with mercy and gratitude...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0008par0051	We do, but let's not twist history, please.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0006par0052	...he and all the other national struggle heroes, and all the people who are working with the nation, I extend my regards to you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0008par0054	Let's not twist history, please.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0009par0055	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0010par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0009par0057	Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0010par0058	I'd like to respond because it's a speech to our mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0009par0059	Here you go, Mr. Buldan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0010par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we would like to remind Mr. Hati who just gave a speech that Mr. Sırrı Sakık is not a so-called representative of the Kurdish people, but of the essence. We want you to know that. Everyone already knows that Mr. Sırrı Sakık is the main representative of the Kurdish people, but if you're looking at him as a so-called representative, he's your point of view.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0011par0062	He is also the representative of the Kurdish people, the AK PARTI, the representative of the CHP, and the representative of the MPHP, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0010par0063	Yeah, okay.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0012par0064	Mr. Özdağ, please.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0010par0065	Dear friends, Mr. Sırı Sakık, due to a statement he made the day the mayor was elected, unfortunately, he was exposed to a lingo due to the distortion of the advocacy of the media. Mr. Sırım Sakık has said nothing about Karabekir's person, dear friends. There, he stated that it was to expose the militantism of the 30s, and Mr. Sırım Sakık stated that a decision would be made with the public regarding the removal of Kazım Karabekir Street. If the people of Pain make a decision about the removal of Kazim Karabekir Street, you have no right to say anything here. The people and elected mayors are the only ones who allow the streets, the monuments, the militantism, to be removed with the public in order to make decisions. We'd like you to know that your demeaning statements and speeches have not been welcomed here, which have deciphered Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Mr. Sırı Sakık explained that there was nothing about Kazım Karabekir's person and that he used it to expose the militantism of the 1930s. If the people make such a decision about the removal of Kazım Karabekir Street, if they decide to remove it, the will of the people will be based on it. We want that known.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0012par0067	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0013par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0012par0069	Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0013par0070	Sir, the removal of Kazim Karabekir's name is not in a referendum that only the public can hold. 77 million people decide, it's removed because they're the heroes of a national struggle, it's impossible to erase their names from history.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0012par0071	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for parliamentary research, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To protect plant gene resources using modern technologies, define them at the molecular level, scan and clone them in terms of target genes, patent them, and collect all these activities in a research institution, identify what needs to be done to make it a national policy, and propose the opening and offering parliamentary research under the basis provided under the grounds provided by Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter for their solution proposals. [[Lug]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Kütahya]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 9) Emin Haluk Ayhan (Marine) [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 14) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Tripoli]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Scholarship]] Scientists have agreed that in the future, those who are doing research on three issues will be able to guide the world. These three topics include space and space technologies, computer and IT technologies, gene and gene technologies. While the first two issues are very important, we need to work on our future genetic resources, which are more valuable than Turkey's sources of oil, boron and gold. Gene and gene technologies are important for the evaluation of genetic resources. The success of gene technology depends on the excess of genetic diversity. In this way, Turkey is very rich. The drug, which is used in cosmetics industry in rehabilitating new species, has a significant potential compared to other countries in our country. There are about 10,000 species of plants in our country, about a third of them, about 3,500 of them, only in our country. The 3,500 endemic plants that grow in Turkey are smuggled abroad illegally. They operate mainly on behalf of plant spies, giant pharmaceutical companies, or the ornamental plant industry in the mountains dressed as archaeologists and traveling tourists. The strategic plants they acquire in different ways are easily passed through customs because they do not have enough control. Asia Minor is among the richest regions in the world in terms of fluorine. Experts note that the rise of theft to more dangerous levels every day brings some plants to an extinction point. Turkey has more than 10,500 plants used in medicine and cosmetic industry, whereas the wealth of plants in all Europe is explained at 11,000. There are few in Turkey to say there is no use of herbal medicine. Since customs can't isolate its properties, plants are easily brought out as plants. The best example of these is the Digitalis purpurea, which grows only in Adana and Kadirli. This plant, which is the agent of the drug used in heart disease, is removed from the plant status without customs because its properties cannot be isolated. Turkey is also considered one of the countries in which life is threatened by extinction. Using plant resources of rich biodiversity to evaluate these values, and using biotechnology to develop qualified seeds in strategic products for target genes, to produce mass productions of disease and harmful plant materials, and to become fully exported abroad and to develop a strong chance of competing for Turkey, by using the modern methods of biotechnology in strategic products, and by improving new plants that still exist at a certain level in this field, and by improving them in a special way. To achieve these things, society must be informed seriously, planned and consistently in order to ensure that consciousness occurs in a country and citizens whose biodiversity and natural ecosystems are effectively protected. In time to come, not the plant itself, but the single gene on it will be more valuable than we could ever imagine. Therefore, young minds need to be recognized, protected, evaluated, and possess our genetic resources. Because the future is in the genes. The societies that solve the mystery of genes will continue to be masters of the world. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the matter of identifying and solving the problems of wheat producers in our country, we propose the opening of Parliamental research on the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on the basis of the implementation of measures and practices that should be carried out. [[Adana]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] 8) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kastamon]] [[Elizipt]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 20) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] As the world's leading wheat producer examines the last decade's data, it appears that in 1999, the 225 million hectares rose by 0.5 per cent year-on-year, reaching 225 million hectares in 1999. The main wheat producing countries are India, Russia, China, the United States, the EU. Turkey produces about 8 million hectares of crop fields and 3.56 per cent of the world's wheat crops. It is necessary for such a large area to bring the benefits of millions of people and our country to the top, to plan a good governance. There is no doubt that the mistake will be returned to our country as well as to our people. Therefore, it is essential that the Ministry, in its position as the highest dictator of agricultural policies, follows the world's markets and carefully edits the balance of supply and demand in wheat, and plans. This balance is not only important for farmers, but also for industry workers, who suffer from cost fluctuations. In addition to the problem of producing wheat in our country, it is considered by all the environments where there is a price and quality problem. These problems can be solved if the reformers, seedmakers, farmers, farmers who bring their inputs and growth techniques together with wheat farming, the technical staff who are in their training, who produce and sell production entries, the TMO, the merchant, the storage function, the wheat-working industry, the organizations of civil society, which are the organizations of these parts, are together and in dialogue. But the important thing is that governments make decisions in the best interest of the manufacturer. Disappointing that the premium support for the past few years has been too poor, the manufacturer continues to worry about the too late explanation of the price of intervention, the opening of customs doors during harvests, and the timeless and unnecessary market intervention of TMOs. Our farmers are concerned about TMO's supply of goods against them again, and the cost of goods is too late, and they can't see the way. Governments must not allow wheat imports, especially during harvest time and after, by looking after wheat producers. The biggest problem with the farmer and particularly the wheat producers is the height and instability of the cost of input. In particular, fertilizer operates at the highest price in the farmer's time of use and bends the back of the farmer. The high cost of fuel, another entry, prevents tractors from working and farms from processing. Despite the decline of oil prices around the world, fuel prices in our country do not drop and fall comically, making it a subject that citizens do not understand. All farmers take loans from banks to mortgage their fields so they can plant their fields. The fact that banks have a large number of executive fields is a very painful sign of this, as the media has seen in recent years. As a result, we would like to propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to ensure that the measures and practices that should be carried out are being carried out, and that the research is being done to determine and resolve the problems of wheat producers in our country. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to increase agricultural production and to obtain more products from the unit area, we would like to ask for the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution under Articles 104, and 105, in order to investigate the reasons for the use of fertilizer and fertilizer prices and to take necessary measures. [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] 8) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Kastamon]] [[Elizipt]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[Eskişehir]] 20) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] Agriculture is a vital, indispensable, strategic and sensitive sector for all countries regardless of the level of development. Among its significant contributions to national income, it is often the most important source of sustaining life as well as agricultural products, which are the producers of the lowest income in society. With our country's economy, social fabric, population structure, geography, geopolitical position and structural problems, agriculture can be achieved, it is easier to understand the importance and indetermination of the sector for Turkey. Fertilizing is one of the most important factors to increase agricultural production and to get more products from the unit area. The increase in quality and quantity of the product is known as the most important after a good seed. High increases in fertilizer prices in recent years, reaching 55 per cent to 90 per cent, have made the producers nervous and our farmers are unable to use these products, thus reducing the quality and production of the product. The fertilizer, which is among the manufacturer's most important inputs, increases its price every year, especially when our farmers need it most, and lowers the use of fertilizer. When the latest indicators are examined, our farmers are seen to drop from the rate of fertilizer use, the rate of prices rising every year. According to its competitors in agricultural activities around the world, our producers, who have been severely crushed under production input costs, fertilizer, seed etc., have faced rising rates that will not meet any economic criteria during the full use of the most important input cost of fertilizer. This increase continues day by day. In the 2011 product costs, it is a fact that the amount of fertilizer cost in wheat is 12 per cent, 19 per cent in cotton, 20 per cent in corn, and the support in fertilizer and mazotta, which is two basic entries for agricultural production, continues, but because of this increase in fertilizer prices, the amount of support is not even satisfied by the VAT in fertilizer. In the farmer's time and in order to provide adequate fertilizer use, the amount of support for price increases should also be increased in parallel with this, and payments should be made during the intensive use of fertilizer. In reducing production costs, the priority should be to remove the tax burden on the basic entries of production or to pay the farmer back in the form of tax returns. In addition, customs duties imposed on imported fertilizers at 1.9-6.5 per cent should be removed, even though they are low. In order to increase the continuity and efficiency of production, these prices in fertilizer must be closely monitored by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and quickly taken the necessary measures. As a result, fertilizers are the ingredients that contain the food needed to grow plants. We propose the establishment of a parliamentary research commission in order to investigate the reasons for the use of fertilizer and the rise in fertilizer prices and take necessary precautions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will continue talks with Turkey's Central Charter Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place, in accordance with the Convention on the Status of Non-Nationals. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission, Interior Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, as well as the European Union's Charter on Approved Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 554 rows. Osman Faruk Logoglu has asked on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0014par0251	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Agreement relating to Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union. I salute you all. The Reception Agreement was discussed in the Internal Affairs and European Union's Compliance Commission before it came to the General Assembly, followed by the Foreign Commission. In all the commissions discussed, our party lawmakers have recorded our objections with extensive opposition arguments, but unfortunately our objections have not been heard. On the other hand, serious national interests are at stake. Just so you know, we're not looking to do politics on this. Our concerns are serious and sincere. Our goal, together, is to find and do what is appropriate and beneficial for our country. Valuable lawmakers organise the procedures and procedures for sending back people who are unable to provide access to the country, stay or reside in the country on the basis of the reciprocity agreement signed between Turkey and the European Union, under the conditions and regulations set in the agreement. Under this agreement, Turkey will start taking back its third country citizens, who are illegally traveling through its country to EU countries, three years after the agreement is in effect. However, the extradition of citizens of third countries with bilateral feedback agreements or similar regulations with Turkey will begin as soon as the extradition agreement for non-nationals is in effect. After the extradition agreement has been implemented, our citizens will be extradited to Turkey, who have entered EU countries illegally or who have fallen into an irregular immigrant group that resides in EU countries. As the above facts stand, a misleading interest and perception is being created over road map documents signed on December 16, 2013 for re-enactment agreements and visa exemptions. This agreement is said to be an automatic and standard requirement for the 24th Fasil, titled Justice, Freedom and Security, as if Turkey had no choice but to sign. However, the link between re-entry and visas is a link established and imposed by the European Union. The Justice and Development Party, unfortunately with a fiction that has no place in Turkey-EU partnership law, has imposed this, Turkey has not resisted this imposition and has failed the negotiating table. Now I'm going to explain to you why the negotiation process failed with concrete examples: First: Government officials have always pledged to our people that the visa exemption would be granted first, then the re-signment agreement would be signed, but these promises have been forgotten and both agreements have been signed on December 16 at the same time; even, they have approved that the re-accession agreement would be carried out earlier. In short, the Justice and Development Party has failed in its commitment to power, and has failed in its right to visa immunity. Second: The agreement text does not include provisions that will reflect the reservations Turkey has made in Geneva contracts due to its geographical status. Turkey has been left unprotected. Third: Some of the provisions of this agreement contradict Article 22 of the International Convention on the Protection of Human Rights of All Migrant Workers and Family Ferts, one of the basic human rights contracts of the United Nations, which we are part of. This agreement provides some assurances to immigrant workers and family members in their country before they are deported. However, the rebuttal agreement stipulates that these people be deported without question. Fourth: Unfortunately, the news of the exemption of government members to convince our people of a great victory is not true; it is a deception. There is no such verdict in the agreement. Because, depending on the conditions set by the European Union, three and a half years from now, he will be granted visa liberalisation if a final assessment by the other side is positive at that time. So we're talking about a process that ends in the interest of the EU, which is uncertain in terms of our gain. In other words, the government is hiding from our people the fact that visa exemption depends on certain conditions and that even if Turkey meets these conditions, we are facing an open-ended process in the hands of Europe. The fifth agreement includes Turkish citizens in irregular positions, including those born in EU countries, and Turkish citizens who cannot maintain regular positions. Friends, this is one of the most dangerous aspects of this agreement, and the government still insists on ignoring the danger. I draw your attention to this serious danger here with care and care. Dear friends, Turkish citizens with legal residence in Europe will be deported if they lose their position on various grounds. As you know, Decisions of the Association Council No. 1/80 and 3/80, signed by Turkey and the European Union in 1980, constitute Turkish-EU partnership law. The law that binds our citizens, that's the law of partnership. Therefore, it is in no way acceptable that Turkish citizens with legal right of residence in EU countries are part of a re-enactment agreement. Because this agreement also threatens our citizens' external gains in free movement, and it is a great flaw that a decision that eliminates this threat is not part of the rebuttal agreement. The sixth is also unclear whether irregular immigrants who will be extradited to our country will be able to be sent to source countries, countries where they come from. Given our country's position and the structure of our land and sea borders, there will be significant increases in the number of irregular immigrants that have been in our country for many years in the coming years. Because if we don't have a re-enactment agreement between the immigrants and their countries sent to Turkey, and there are situations in those countries that threaten human life, such as armed conflict, we can't send these people, the immigrants we've accepted back to Turkey, back to their home country. Dear lawmakers, this agreement will make Turkey a warehouse of illegal immigrants. Seven: The Recycling Agreement also brings heavy economic and social burdens to our country. The costs for housing and return to our country will be paid by Turkey during administrative supervision at the return centers of irregular immigrants who will be returned to our country. There is no guarantee in the context of the Recitation Agreement that the cost of our country will be met by the European Union. In this regard, there is no concrete commitment except a verbal commitment made publicly by EU Interior Commissioner Cecilia Malmström. The Justice and Development Party (AKP) government is content to say that only the negotiations continue. So, friends, let's know that Turkey is going to pay the bill. Eight: By bringing visa liberalisation only side by side with the Recycling Agreement, it is as if the two of them were a clear response to each other. The AKP government, which incompletely informed our people, also conceals the fact that the agreement is only one of four conditions for visa-free entry into the European Union. These are the following conditions: 1) Document security, 2) Illegal immigration, which is part of the Recycling Agreement, 3) Public order and security 4) Foreign relations and basic rights. Within the public order and security clause, which is the third of the four main criteria -- here in particular, I draw the attention of fellow ruling party MPs -- is the Strategic Action Plan to be implemented under this heading to fight corruption and its obligation to co-operate legally with the countries of the European Union. Now, let's be realistic, how will the AKP's government, which has a shameful record of corruption and resists its removal in any way, co-operate with the European Union on the fight against corruption? The fourth criterion for visa liberalisation is the title of external relations and basic rights. According to this, our citizens and foreigners have an obligation to regulate the rights of citizenship in accordance with international standards for Turkey. I ask: How will the AKP's government fulfil the 4th criteria for visa liberalisation, which allowed Festus Okey to be shot at Beyoğlu Police Station in the heart of İstanbul, and the murder of Afghanistan's Lütfollah Tajik. Nine: Europe operates the same method for visa liberalisation for each country, but decisions are made in the country. Different conditions in each country affect the decision process. Therefore, it is of no importance to Turkey to show our people an example of visa exemption processes between the European Union and the third countries for visa exemption. The road map document for visa exemption contains many concrete and abstract obligations. When Turkey will have visa exemption -- even though it provides all these conditions -- is not connected to a fixed calendar. The 10th: Foreign Minister Davutoglu and the EU Ministry say the visa exemption dialogue will be carried out through the legitimate road map of Turkey's reservations, but the original agreements that were signed do not include Turkey's reservations. The legitimate road map, which Mr. Davutoglu spoke highly of, is not an agreement; there is no legal binding of the legitimate road map. Dear MPs, a road map is a document in which the European side can be directed to the Turkish side. In order for our parliament to make a full assessment, the government would have to inform the Parliament of the road map, and this has not been done. Dear lawmakers, as a result, there is no legal link between the extradition agreement and visa issues. The Justice and Development Party has accepted the opposition's compulsion without objection. The agreement, signed as a result of a failed and unsuccessful negotiation process that violates the rights and interests of Turkey, has provided ease on the visa. The propaganda is being carried out and our public is being deceived. The Recycling Agreement provides Turkey with heavy obligations in social, economic and security commitments. Turkey will become a country in which illegal immigrants will stay for long periods of time, with their numbers growing. In contrast, visa ease will kick in in three and a half years at the earliest. It will depend on different conditions and on the assessment and decision made by the EU side. It's supposed to be a warning for us that the European Union quickly ratified this agreement on May 7, 2014, three or five weeks before that, in its official papers. Europe is in a hurry because it has serious interests. And as the Republican People's Party, we say that we also have vital interests. So let's look at this again. Prime Minister Erdogan sometimes blurts out the truth without realizing it. Remember, when the Recycling Agreement was signed, Prime Minister Erdogan said that we are not taking burdens to Europe, we are going to take loads from Europe. Yes, this agreement takes the burden of Europe and puts it on Turkey's shoulders. Turkey, however, is not a cargo carrier and should not be. In a deal, the mutual benefits of the parties must be balanced and simultaneous. In hindsight, Turkey pays in advance and receives nothing in return except an uncertain visa. The general practice is to grant visa exemptions to countries starting accession talks with the European Union. Turkey has been in these negotiations for years, but visa exemption has not been recognised. Turkey is the only exception to the general implementation of this practice, the European Union. Turkish governments have dealt with this issue with European authorities for a long time, but so far it has not been successful. The AKP government also serves to continue this injustice, instead of reacting to this unfair and exceptional situation. Dear friends, it would be appropriate for a re-enactment agreement to be signed within this scope, but only if our country's membership is in effect, or, as I pointed out, Turkey makes re-enactment agreements with all countries that send refugees to Europe. But at this point, signing such an agreement will make our country difficult in social and economic areas and in the field of security while our goal of membership is injured every day. In addition, signing the rebuttal agreement would undermine Turkey's reputation on international platforms. As we know, the European Union Commission recently lifted visas to 19 countries, mostly islands in the Caribbean and Pacific regions. In this case, Turkey, which has been negotiating with the European Union for years, is still in place, even condemned to new conditions and an open-ended process. We don't accept this dishonorable and double standard situation that will discredit our country, reverse the process of joining the European Union. We, the Republican People's Party Group, will say no to this agreement on the grounds that I count above, but we also have a sincere call to you on behalf of our people, our country, especially the ruling party MPs, if anyone is listening: 1) We are not against signing such an agreement, let it be signed. 2) However, as it stands, this agreement is inadequate, unstable, and does not protect our interests. 3) The Republican People's Party wants visa exemption to begin now, not three or four years later. 4) So, our call, withdraw this agreement, sit back at the table with the European Union to compensate for its shortcomings, and renegotiate, and we'll help you, and we'll reevaluate this matter in the interest of national interests. If you do not do so, you will have made a historic error and shared and served in the destruction of our national interests. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0015par0293	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0016par0295	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0015par0296	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0016par0297	Sir, we're negotiating a very important international agreement. However, the concerned Minister isn't here, he's been replaced by another Minister. I don't think it's right, sir, to discuss such an important deal without the Minister and the number of bureaucrats sitting in the lines of the Commission, more than the ruling party MPs. If the concerned minister comes here, he'll be more appropriate, and I'm calling the ruling party: Is this such a non-problem deal, you're not paying attention here? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0017par0301	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0018par0302	Mr. President, the sum of opposition is less than power
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0017par0303	Both the Minister, representing the government, listened to the matter and heard from the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0018par0304	It is the Minister who represents the government. In this international contract, not the Minister, but the government's signature. In that sense, what Mr. Hamzacebi said...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit01spe0017par0305	Yes, Mr. President, I said you represent the government. Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0017par0001	Members of parliament, I now open the Second Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 554. The commission and the government are in place. Now, Tunca Tuskaya belongs to Antalya MP, who wants to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tuskaya.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0019par0007	Mr. President, lawmakers have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group that the Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union is appropriate, and I salute your high delegation. Today, we face a phenomenon of illegal immigration in our world, and the number of illegal immigrants is increasing rapidly every year. The number of illegal immigrants in one year in 2012 reached 1.1 million people in the first six months of 2013. According to the 2012 figures, there are 45.2 million people in the world who have been immigrant status. This number also shows a very serious rapid increase. The problem of illegal immigration is causing serious problems among all countries. Now, what are the factors that make such large masses leave their homes and go to other countries? It is possible to think in two groups. The first group factors are the economic factors. The factors in the second group are political and security issues. The trend today is this: Illegal migrations, as a primary trend, are observed towards developed countries from less developed regions and countries, and this problem is essentially a problem of developed countries. Today, global capitalism, which dominates the world and increasingly spreads its domain, makes the world a single market and predicts the free movement of capital and entrepreneurs from production factors. Institutions such as the World Trade Organization, the International Fund of Money, the World Bank operate as instruments to achieve the goal of this order. The investor and entrepreneur of the countries that have developed today says: "I come to the less developed countries freely, I operate its natural resources, I produce the goods and services, I sell them freely anywhere in the world, I transfer my profits freely, I transfer my profits freely." But when it comes to the free movement of the most important work of the production factors, the rulers of this order say: When you say that, we're dealing with an illegal migration movement from low-income economic regions to developed countries because of low-income economic injustice; that's the first factor. Second, there are political and security issues in these countries we're talking about. For example, when we look at the nearest Middle East in which we live, this is very clear and clear when we look at the current political and security issues of countries in the region from North Africa to Afghanistan. There's political confusion from all of these countries, there's distrust, there's totalitarian regimes, there's political pressures, and there's a security issue in general. These problems also provoke an illegal migration movement from these countries to developed countries. Now, in this case, let's face it, the global capitalist system that dominates the world today, which is expanding its domain, is stirring up and giving birth to illegal migration. This problem is the problems of developed countries, and the countries facing illegal migration are either taking measures not to get these immigrants inside their borders, or they're trying to send them to countries or countries of origin, where they come at least cost. The surrounding Berlin Wall, which recently called the Wall of Shame, today between Turkey and Greece, between Palestine and Israel, are taking the building of walls extremely common between the United States and Mexico, and increasing security measures at the borders. Here's the general framework, which is signed between Turkey and the European Union, should be discussed within the picture. When the European Union was the European Economic Community in the 1960s, it was the first generation of re-enactment treaties that organized illegal migrations within it. Later, after the Berlin Wall fell, the second generation began to make re-enactment deals. That's to try to control illegal immigration movements from central and Eastern European countries. After the 1999 Tampere Summit, the legal basis for the third generation re-enactment agreements was laid and the European Union began to sign re-enactment agreements with third countries. While the European Union is not very relevant to each other, it uses the visa ease or visa exemption instrument to allow the Recitation Agreement to be accepted into its account. Turkey is saying the same thing today. You accept my illegal immigrants, and I will seriously consider whether or not I will grant you a visa exemption. From 2003 to today, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has seriously resisted this issue as a defender of Turkey's interests, trying to make it more appropriate for the signing of the agreement, for our interests and interests, but due to the recent preferences of political power, it has been initialized and later signed. The summary of this agreement is that the valued lawmakers tell Turkey of the European Union: I will return to you the immigrants who have entered illegal member states through Turkey. If you take all of this without causing trouble, I will also consider giving your citizens a limited three-month visa exemption. (This is our obligation now, and the concession we're going to receive is a three-month free trip, which means that the European Union will consider the possibility of visas, and will consider giving them. I'm sorry if you want to say that the international agreement is that interests are balancedly protected, but we can't accept that. There's no balance of interest in a deal like this. One of the European Union's most important problems is that the European Union solves itself against us without any cost, and we accept the quality of being a warehouse country for immigrants. I'll tell you this much -- in Europe, this has been discussed especially in Germany -- Otto Schiff, who did the Ministry of Interior in the SPD, said: "Is it possible for us to consent to a country in North Africa, to build large camps there, to send these illegal immigrants there? There's nothing acceptable about that. Now, as for the agreement, this agreement will apply to those who do not have the conditions to enter, find, or reside in the territory of one of Turkey's or the EU's member states, or no longer carry them. Now, who would the European Union send to Turkey? He will send Turkish citizens, Turkish citizens, citizens of the third country, and people without homelands, to Turkey, where I say they will not enter member states, to be in that country, to be in it, to be in it, to be in it, to be in it, to be in it and not to be in it anymore. But there's something else very important here, which is no longer available -- Mr. Republican People's Party spokesman underlined -- that's a huge risk. You're going to say that nothing happens to the rights that have been won, but the Berlin Supreme Court has decided in March 2014 that you can't touch the rights that have been won. So what can concerned countries do to gain rights whenever they want? They can touch. There is no sentence here that guarantees that. They say there is nothing wrong with our citizens. I'll tell you this: Turkish or foreign wives and children who have a residence permit, where Turks marry, if they are there illegally, families will be divided, spouses and children will be extradited to Turkey. In the first joke of Article 2 also, the declaration that no longer carries the terms of residence poses a serious risk, as I have just stated. Now, in the Foreign Affairs Commission, we've discussed that. I've personally reviewed reports and reports from the EU Integration Commission and the Internal Affairs Commission. Can you tell us how many illegal immigrants can be extradited to Turkey within a certain period of time when you have signed this agreement? No one has expressed a number to us when we came to these three commissions. He doesn't know it, and the Home Office can't say it, and the State Department can't. So do we have any idea what number we could move, what number would make sense to us in return for this deal? No. Will there be 50,000 people or 500,000 people coming? When we do this, then we go here: EUROPOL, the European police say: "There are about 500,000 illegal immigrants in the European Union every year. " We wanted to be enlightened about it, no one gave us any information. Now, there's also another point: this agreement -- now, our bureaucrats are telling us indirectly that this will start in three years, there's a six-month pilot app, etc., and so on and so forth, so many people don't come, but there's no exact number. It is said that the country, which is a member of the European Union, will be able to return it within five years of knowing that a person has been living in that country illegally. This means that a person who was illegally involved in one of the member states of the European Union fifteen years ago realized in July 2009 that it was illegal there, and if he could identify it, we face such a risk that could be extradited to Turkey. Now, then, indeed, I agree with bureaucrats, the Home Office bureaucrats. How can we know how many people will come to Turkey when we face such a risk, such a great unknown? Sir, we have a right to an annulment, we'll execute it. We'll do the pilot app for six months and then we'll call it off. I raised a question to the bureaucrats who came to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Tell me, since our legal relationship with the European Union has begun, has there been a request for a dissolution in any area where Turkey has a right to dissolution? As far as we know, we just signed the treaty against the European Union, and now I'm canceling it, it's not a very realistic approach to diplomacy. If we're thinking about something like this, I'm telling the power that there are talks between the European Union and the United States of America on a Free Trade Agreement. His economic cost to Turkey will be billions of dollars, and all of America's testing products will enter Turkey without customs. If you can afford it, we are disbanding the Free Trade Agreement. Can you see? We can't solve these problems if we want to. We, today, have a very serious illegal immigration problem in Turkey. I asked at the Foreign Affairs Commission, and the figure I was given was that 247,000 people from Syria were scattered in the camp and around 500,000 -- according to Mr. Prime Minister's statement. There's a number in the media yesterday, 227,000 in the camps, 1 million in the 10 provinces of Turkey. Only illegal immigrants from Syria are facing a serious illegal immigration problem, considering the ones from other neighbouring countries that have come from far away geography. Now, when this agreement is signed, we don't know how much illegal immigrants will come to our country in the countries of the European Union. I mean, are we that powerful a country? As for immigrants from Syria, the figure the official authorities have given to the media is: we've spent $3.5 billion. It means that there's a lot of money, so spend it, $3.5 billion on those from the European Union. That's not gonna happen. That doesn't make any sense. Accepting such an agreement, bringing it here on this date is indeed a historical responsibility and a historical error. A deal like this is about something that the European Union is so troubled about, and if we're the key country, we need to hold on to it. Let the members of the State Department tell me that we have signed an agreement in the European Union at this time, and it has been approved by them so far, and then you will send us a letter and then when will you approve? On December 16th and 17th, this agreement was signed in Ankara, and as of April 14th, we completed the ratification process from the European Union. When will you sign it, and when will you complete it? Now, that's a rush to find out who's profitable in this deal, who's in favor of it. Either we're all here for Turkey's interests, or there's no one to say that we can't agree on a conflict with the European Union. Don't take this the wrong way, but it is against Turkey's national interest to have this agreement approved here right now. I think we should hold onto that leverage and use it at the negotiating table. What's it gonna be? As our businessmen have already told us, the decisions made by the European Court of Justice regarding Council Decisions 1/80, 3/80 regarding the Added Protocol, they have already made a little bit of an opening for our businessmen by making decisions from the Berlin Supreme Administration Court. We need to push for other citizens to travel freely there as well. There's no point in sitting around and making unnecessary compromises. Now, how do we afford this burden? Sir, there's a joint statement on technical support referred to in Article 23, which regulates technical aid. The countries of the European Union, the European Union, will provide technical assistance and financial assistance; nothing concrete. Turkish diplomacy must have had a lot of that kind of statement from the European Union. If you accept our closest example of the Annan Plan, Cyprus would receive financial assistance, embargo would be lifted, airports would open. Which one is it? Which one is it? After six months of piloting, we will grant you visa exemption. Mr. Logoglu said: The Council will be recommended, and the Council will have a qualified vote, and if we go from negative to positive list with a qualified vote, our citizens will be able to travel freely for three months on visa exemption, the only thing to gain. Okay, but there's France, Austria -- you know their attitude -- two countries with teeth, we don't want to give it to you. How are you going to get visa exemptions there? Now, here's the thing: I really want to share what I saw with you. This power has weakened inside and out, and has come to the stage where anyone who suppresses it will accept what they say outside, and the Republic of Turkey will pay for it. We, the National Movement Party, say no and vote against the approval of such an agreement against Turkey's interests. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0020par0029	Thank you. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0021par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of People's Law bill that the Agreement Against the Responsibility of those who reside between the Republic of Turkey and the European Union, 554. I salute the General Assembly. The results of the European Union's initial impact on foreign policies, leaving the human rights perspective and adopting a security-oriented approach, have also affected the European Union in neighbouring countries, and have been the basis for a daily repeat on the borders of the European Union. With this shift in immigration and asylum issues in European Union policies in recent years, the concept of the external dimension of immigration policies has become more emphasised. In a sense, it is intended to impose responsibility on the third countries in the control of the migration to the European Union to move border control beyond its borders. The external dimension includes exchanges of information with the European Union and the signing of bilateral or multilateral agreements, as well as the establishment of various mechanisms. Under the contract, the terms of the extradition agreements are also considered within this scope. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have basically arranged for the extradition agreements to be sent to the country where citizens of the third country have lost the terms of staying in a country or have lost the conditions. Reception agreements, in a more direct statement, have entered the country in irregular ways, so without the necessary visas or other travel documents, and have usually entered the country from customs gates set by law and other entry points, and have fulfilled these conditions during entry with people who have been infected in the country, but are agreements for the end of visas, or for reasons such as these, to send them to countries where they are no longer citizens. However, the subject of these agreements and texts is ▪ Humans. Therefore, of course, there is a human aspect of the issue that looks at human rights law, and therefore it is important to focus on it. Dear lawmakers, there are some problem points in terms of the feedback agreement and possible practices of human rights: First, the lack of basic human rights protection mechanisms for treatment of third-country nationals, which are considered re-accepted by Turkey, are likely to be deported or subjected to arbitrary detention, even though it is suitable to receive temporary asylum status. The second is a broad appreciation for the European Union's officials in the study of anti-national obligations and protection demands for treating irregular immigrants who have been captured and face feedback. The third is that the implementation of the draft agreement is lacking in transparency, monitoring and accountability care. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have died in 2013 trying to cross 2,360 immigrant borders, according to the International Migration Organization. Each day, a new one is added to the measures taken by the states against immigrants. Increased deaths in borders are closely related to these measures taken by governments. Governments who fence fence and wall the borders force immigrants to leave at greater risks. These measures, such as war, conflict, persecution, and human rights violations, also have a negative effect on refugees who are forced to flee their country. The concrete, persons-based reports on the terrible fates of the people who have been deported from different countries to Syria through extradition agreements, including those who were deported from Turkey. Between 2002-2013, Turkey reportedly had 2,675 people who had been returned to the Syrian regime they had fled from. Those who are concerned about the re-acceptance agreement are the ones who think they can overcome all these difficult obstacles and get a human protection, who risk death at the beginning of their journey, but who are wanted to be sent back without any weak effort to listen to their problems. Mr. President, for all these reasons, it is unethical for Turkey to discuss a retraction agreement at the same table, which promises to deliver citizens of the third country, who have reached the borders of Europe in exchange for visa liberalisation in favour of its citizens, and perhaps seeking the rights due to international law. It can also be perceived as an exchange of services or goods. The way the matter is handled, and on a ground like this, at least it is incompatible with human rights and human dignity. It is not a qualified foreign policy to enter into commitments that endanger human life under the terms of re-accession agreements to ensure visa free movement. Turkey, which aims to be a political, economic, and socially strong country, does not have to sign rebuttal agreements that undermine other people's lives in the pursuit of free movement. In this case, we also think it makes sense that the public in Turkey is not informed enough about the costs of this visa-free travel. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have the potential to set up chain-off mechanisms that will lead to serious human rights violations and human rights violations when the re-enactment agreements, which are one of the most popular immigration control measures today, are assessed within the framework of human rights and human dignity. Looking at countries that have reached Europe via Turkey, it is clear that war and human rights violations such as Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Somalia have come at the top. Past and current practices show that they have been sent to Turkey by means of bilateral feedback protocols or illegal retrieval methods, without reaching the authorities in the European countries where they have arrived. The enthusiastic subcontractorship that Turkey strips of sending immigrants back to their country, regardless of whether it needs international protection or not, with an agreement of Turkey, without a healthy asylum procedure, could mean contributing to the international human tragedy. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, either in Turkey or in the European Union, the debates, based on national security and cost points, will also lead to a perception that supports the alien hostility of irregular immigrants from human rights and fuels discrimination in all areas. The issue discussed in ongoing talks between Turkey and the European Union in the area of control of irregular migration and in public debates is considered human. The cost accounts made by reducing immigrants to numbers, the national security claims created by immigration, and the efforts of the parties to strengthen their hands in negotiations by providing political gains through human lives, are not compatible with democracy and universal human rights principles. Because it is evident that the authorities in Turkey have declared the re-enactment agreement to the internal public as a visa lift with the European Union, and that the European Union has no objection to sharing with the public that this agreement is a cheap way to get rid of immigrants, as well as the attempt to sacrifice human rights to the race for power in foreign political negotiations and domestic policy. Mr. President, it is very important that Turkish lawmakers consider human rights and asylum while shaping the new asylum policy and that NGOs affect the process, including this process. The Geneva Convention on the Legal Status of Refugees of 1951 is the most important international document available in the area of refugee rights. Despite many changes, the contract is the most important legal text on the protection of refugees. The document, prepared after World War II, was a solution to the refugee crisis created by the war in Europe. The agreement, which was only valid for events prior to 1951, included the European geographical limitation, but it was renewed in 1967, when it was seen that it did not meet the needs, and the geographical constraint in the contract was removed. Thus, it became a basic document for governments to provide protection for refugees who had taken refuge in them. However, Turkey, which played a part in drafting its 1951 contract, also signed the 1967 document with a geographical check. Thus, Turkey declared it would only grant refugee status to those from Europe. According to official figures, however, only 45 people from Europe to Turkey have been refugees in the past 60 years. However, as of today, about 20,000 people from east and south of Turkey are waiting to go to another country and receive refugee status -- except for one million people who fled the war in Syria. However, there is still no refugee law in Turkey, and there is no civilian institution that is active and working in this sense. All jobs are almost run by the police. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs, Turkey, must first fulfill its responsibilities in this matter. The problem is only when boats sink and people die or there are mass migrations like Syria. However, there is a constant problem. The establishment of a legal infrastructure in accordance with human rights standards and law is inevitable. As a result, the issue that needs to be focused on is that a significant gain in countries, such as the right to free movement of individuals, which contributes to social, economic, and social wealth, cannot be achieved at the cost of violations of basic human rights, including irregular immigrants, asylum seekers, refugees, and refugees, who are primarily entitled to life. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the factors that cause immigration to become a major problem in the world today can be listed as economic, poverty, wars, authoritarian and oppressive regimes, interethnic and religious constraints, barriers to gender trends, the failure of states to ensure the safety of their citizens, political turmoil and acts of violence. People in this situation can migrate with a better desire for life, or at least in order to survive. What each community and individual expects of the state is an economically strong budget, a fair system of justice with comprehensive democracy and freedoms. Thus, these issues play an important role in the migration of individuals. In today's social life, developed democracies, developed economies, briefly highlight the concept of developed countries. In this context, it would not be wrong to point out the direction of migration movements as developed countries. Instead of placing immigrants inside Europe and becoming partners in wealth, it will result in a social fear of them being replaced. In accordance with all these regulations, we believe that this agreement between Turkey and the European Union, which has been signed and proposed to be ratified by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be reassessed by the basic human rights and political instability of the region we are in. By showing the necessary sensitivity in this sense -- as we look at the Middle East today, the situation of Iraq is in the middle of Syria -- and in the context of human rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, Geneva Convention and the other United Nations Bill of Human Rights, which we signed, I salute you all again and again and again and again after a human dimension has been adopted and Turkey could also experience social, economic, social explosions on this occasion, re-reviewed and re-established into the agenda of the Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0022par0055	Thank you. Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP who has asked on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0023par0059	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Supreme Parliament and on behalf of the group on behalf of the AK PARTI Government, that the Agreement on Responsibility between the Republic of Turkey and the People Without Permission between the European Union is proper. I salute you all. So far, I've listened carefully to the speakers who had spoken before me, and I think there are some flaws in the shared logic sequence and the approach to the event. We're here to discuss the approval of the re-enactment agreement, but the re-enactment agreement is actually a smaller picture in the larger picture. If we forget the big picture and try to solve the little picture, then it might be hard for us to come to the right conclusion.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0024par0061	Strategic depth, big picture? If it's the strategic depth of Davutoglu, don't mention it!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0023par0062	Now, we all know what the big picture is. European Union membership is Turkey's strategic goal. Turkey has been struggling to become a member of the European Union for a long time.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0025par0063	You set off the fireworks because we came in. Were we in there when you blew up those fireworks?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0023par0064	And really, as Turkey reaches these days, we'd be sad to be living in Turkey, which is before the AK PARTI governments today, if it weren't for the European Union process in both democracy and human rights reforms.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0026par0065	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0027par0066	Not like this! Now, when the European Union process is so important and a very important element of European Union membership is a visa, I haven't heard many people talk about visa removal here.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0028par0068	Where'd you get the visa?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0029par0069	In a sense, in a sense, Turkey is truly today the most embarrassing of Turkish people...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0028par0070	You've taken her to Papua New Guinea!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0029par0071	...we're talking about a step towards lifting the visa that has given the Turkish people the most sad moments.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0030par0072	Three and a half years from now...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0029par0073	I guess we don't get into visa lines because we're congressmen, but our kids... You can't go to England with a diplomatic passport, you can't go to America, you can't get a visa! ...maybe our relatives are the ones that I'm most required as President of the Foreign Affairs Commission to help me with visas from my own group, both from the opposition and from my own group.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0031par0076	So should it be in return, or should we take it in return?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0029par0077	And look, about the visa... not just the problems with the visa, but the Turkish person, in a sense, finances the embassies that give visas here. That's 140 million euros for the Schengen Visa in four years, and that's that side.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0032par0078	Have you calculated how much you're going to pay the refugees?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0029par0079	Now, after I say that, I want to get back to the elements of this deal.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0033par0080	No one made a sound listening to you, so we listened very quietly.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0032par0081	Have you calculated how much we're going to pay for their housing, their well-being, their mortgages?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0033par0082	Congressman, we listened to you very quietly!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0034par0083	Together with this agreement, a process actually began in Turkey, and a very important process began.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0035par0084	We're gonna ask you!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0036par0085	Are you a lawyer?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0035par0086	We're trying to figure out what we're selling.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0037par0087	We listened to you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0038par0088	Naturally, if Turkey is on its way to the European Union, at the end of the 70s, Europe...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0035par0089	So what do we market for, what do we have left to sell, Mr. Secretary, we're trying to find out.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0037par0090	Have we ever interfered with you?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0038par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0035par0092	We'll find out what negotiations you're making with Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0039par0093	You shouldn't have listened!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0040par0094	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0035par0095	There's nothing you haven't sold so far, so we'd like to know what's going to be sold?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0040par0096	Dear Light, please!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0041par0097	What a shame!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0040par0098	Mr. Habiter speaking, please, Mr. Lawmakers!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0042par0099	What part of Turkey are you selling, we'll find out?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0043par0100	Alim Hodja!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0044par0101	Did we interfere with your spokesman?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0045par0102	Mr. Secretary, please!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0046par0103	Shut up, you're a minister!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0045par0104	Mr. Bozır, come in. Here you are, sir, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0047par0106	Every negotiation you make, everything's gone.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0045par0107	Dear Light, please!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0048par0108	That's what you think, that's what you think!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0049par0109	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0048par0110	Okay, listen!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0050par0111	Mr. Secretary, this country knows exactly what you're doing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0048par0112	Listen, he's telling me!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0050par0113	This country knows exactly what you're selling this country to. You have no right to speak!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0051par0114	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Light... Here you go, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0052par0116	Turkey, if, at the end of the 70s...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0053par0117	You got the country in trouble, and then you come back here and you still talk!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0052par0118	If the government at the time hadn't decided to stop with the wrong decision, we wouldn't be dealing with re-enactment agreements, visa removal, EU membership today. Unfortunately, we're here today because of the wrong decision that was made that day. Now, this recycling agreement, in fact, is a process that walks parallel to the removal of Turkey's visa. Here, normally, between Balkan countries and other countries, first a process is initiated for visa removal, and in the process, if progress is made, the process of visa ease will first be taken, and then the visa will be lifted. As Turkey, we have come to a different point than the others by bringing the re-enactment agreement to the same moment as the visa. Here, within three years of the confirmation of the re-enactment agreement, the European Union will be in effect in three years, although the 24th article of this agreement is clear, and as the legal road map clearly states, Turkey is able to annul it, to abolish it. Now, what exactly is this deal brought in? There is no change in the status of Turkish citizens in the first place. Although this agreement does not exist, Turkey is already taking a Turkish citizen who has been illegally seized abroad and must be sent back. The audience here is citizens of three countries who are non-Turkish citizens, and if they are found to have left Turkey at the end of three years, the European Union will be extradited through Turkey if there is no agreement with those countries. Now, look, when it comes to countries where we have a re-enactment agreement, there's no problem. If an illegal immigrant who has a passport is to be extradited in Germany, and we have an agreement with this country, it will be sent directly through Turkey. What countries do we have a re-acceptance agreement with? We have an agreement with the Federation of Syria, Greece, Kyrgyzstan, Romania, Ukraine, Pakistan, Russia, Nigeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yemen, Moldova, Belarus and Montenegro. Also, our confirmation agreements with Nigeria, Yemen, Montenegro continue. In addition, there are countries in which the European Union has a direct re-enactment agreement, in which the European Union will send not directly from Turkey, but from those countries, which are Ukraine, Pakistan, Russia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moldova and Montenegro. Now, what's important here is that by signing this agreement, Turkey has, in a sense, begun to correct its own image and its elements that need to be corrected, along with this agreement, and has committed the remaining parts. What are they? Security of travel documents. Indeed, Turkey is during the negotiations on this agreement. Which we're proud of today, and we're not really ashamed of calling it a Turkish passport, and we've moved on to passports equipped with electronic data with chips.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0054par0126	Were you embarrassed before?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0055par0127	You used this passport for years, you were a diplomat, you were ashamed! Shame on you! Don't you dare say that!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0052par0128	Thus, this is one of the achievements of these agreement talks to Turkey. Migration management is the second element, and Turkey has taken significant steps in this power administration under the terms of this agreement, such as international protection, in providing adequate control and supervision at the borders.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0056par0130	Let him take it back!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0057par0131	You're ashamed to be a Turk. You've carried the passport, you've sat in the authorities, and now there's no...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0058par0132	Mr. Light, please... there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0057par0133	Let him take that promise back.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0059par0134	The measures for public order and security have been taken, and progress has been made as the fourth element on basic rights. The recent amendments to our legislation, including the 6458 International Protection Act, have in fact been an important step towards Turkey's becoming a country away from a more civilized country and a country without a source of immigrants. Now, here, of course, there have been some concerns. One of them, a speaker, fulfilled it as a condition of the 24th chapter. He said that there is no such thing as the terms of the 24th chapter, only that the negotiations are being conducted, the progress is being made, there is no need to sign. Hence, there is no organic connection to the 24th chapter. In other words, sir, will Turkey become an illegal immigration warehouse? If they send 200,000, 300,000 people to Turkey in an instant, how will Turkey handle them, what will Turkey do? Now, really, it's very wrong to try to create a perception based on vague numbers and imaginary figures. It's easy to think with numbers. First, a commission will be set up first. Information on a captured illegal immigrant will be forwarded to this commission in Turkey. The Commission will look at it, and decide whether it really is gone from Turkey, whether it really is the qualifications for this agreement or not. Only then will it be possible for this citizen or, at work, the third country citizen to come to Turkey. Now, I'd like to give you an example: this recycling agreement was signed with the entire European Union, but Greece and I have a bilateral acceptance agreement signed in November 2001. I also believe that Mr. Logoglu made the negotiations on the re-enactment agreement signed in 2001 when he was the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs of Mr. Logoglu. According to this agreement with Greece, as of 2010, Greece demanded the removal of 46,581 illegal immigrants as part of its extradition. We've studied it, and our authorities have assessed it. From 46,581, we saw only 3,878, and we reported them. We also received 1,474 of these 3,878, so Greece demanded 46,000, and we took 1,400 of them to Turkey. Since 2001, Greece has asked Greece to accept 110,000. We've interviewed over 13,000 of these, and we've only received 3,800, so I'd like to share these numbers with you in terms of how the system works. Greece represents 80 per cent of the entire migration in terms of illegal immigration. So what we're talking about here is important. Now there's another issue: What status will Turkey give the immigrants? Or, for example, what action will there be regarding those who come from countries east of Turkey? Of course, it's a very important issue here, according to the 1951 Geneva Convention, that we've set a reserve for the legal situation of refugees in terms of geographical limitations. We are not removing this geographical limitation with this agreement, and we have made it clear that only with Turkey's membership in the European Union can we remove this geographical limitation. So we won't have a problem with that either. A very important issue in its nature: the European Union has benefited so much that it immediately approved it and why did Turkey pressure it to approve it immediately? And there is no agreement that the European Union has already signed and then pressured Turkey. That is also not true because the European Union has agreed to a joint transit contract with the European Union -- this is a commercial contract, related to the ground rules -- that the European Union has approved it before us, and has made an attempt to approve it to Turkey. There could be issues like this. It is said that Turkey has the authority to rescind its rescinding agreement on the basis of Article 24 if the visa is not lifted, but Turkey can't afford to terminate it. It is not about whether Turkey will be able to afford it. Whatever the rule of the agreement is, if the other side is not fulfilling it, then it will also be annulled, and it will not be put into effect. This is a very, very valid rule in law, and it is a very valid rule in Turkey's position. So when we look at the figures of the European Union, millions of illegal immigrants are now living in Europe, they're going to put them in a truck, and they're going to put them in trucks. The number is not a valid argument. Let me share numbers here, Minister: 39,975 illegal immigrants who were alleged to have broken into EU countries from Turkey in 2009 -- these are Frontex figures -- 55,688 in 2010; 57,028 in 2011; 37,224 in 2012. So let's add up all these numbers, so we're talking about a number like that. And if you apply that in the example of Greece that I've given you, I'm just saying because I find your knowledge of economics very valuable, because it's a review of the commission, it's ingrained, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's intuitive, it's in terms of how many people can enter Turkey after all of this. When you hit that percentage, that number will also come up. Turkey is at a very different point in the European Union's process when we really compare the 1963 Ankara Agreement with today. In 1963, Turkey had a national income of $400 per person, a billion in trade volumes, $7 million tourism revenues, 7 universities... it was necessary to enter the European Union for such a Turkey at all costs, and the visa was an element in front of everything in that day's Turkey. Let's all get up, let's go get a job, let's get a job. There's a logic like this, but in today's Turkey, we're talking about $10,500 a million per person, $300 billion in trade volumes. The number of universities exceeds 185. Tourism revenues go to $50 billion. For such a Turkey, our relationship with the European Union is now in a different position, and this visa for Turkey on that day, which, unfortunately, is one of the gifts left to our country by the September 12 military coup. Because people who were tortured and oppressed during September 12th military coups fled Turkey, because of their raids, visas were granted for refugees, political asylum seekers from all planes, and unfortunately, we are still forced to fight for it here today. But today in Turkey, its income has increased, its life has not changed, but people who want their child to have a better education, who want to improve, who want to find new jobs are unfortunately unhappy because of this visa, and are unable to take advantage of it. Therefore, lifting the visa is an important issue for Turkey. The agreement on the removal of the visa was discussed in my day, more or less, about ten years from 2005. The main reason for delay in negotiating this agreement is that some of the parts of Turkey, which oppose the European Union reforms, have opposed everything, and believe me, no matter how much effort has been made in all reform laws, from the removal of the execution to the Law of Associations, from the Law of Civil Law to the Foundations. I gave 11 years to the European Union in the Foreign Ministry and spent 11 years as a fan of the European Union and a person who believed that the European Union would contribute to Turkey. But, in this 11 years, as I have seen, a group of members of the State Department of Turkey, including the members of the State Department of Turkey, as opposed to everything, let there be a re-enactment agreement, no visas, no reforms, no Turkey progress, no privatisation, no privatisation. I'm afraid we've come here in the mentality of the Foreign Ministry...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0060par0146	You've done all this for 12 years, and what have we become in foreign policy? The more we disagree, the more you've made foreign policy this way for 12 years. What are you accusing us of? You've been in power for 12 years.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0059par0147	...because a friend of mine is slow to conduct these meetings, I share here that we're too close to each other to talk to my 50-year-old friend or my 40-year-old friend for four months.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0060par0148	He still blames us for what he did. We did it, we are the power!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0059par0149	With all the issues I've been trying to explain, given the big picture of this recycling agreement and all the measures...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0060par0150	I looked at the big picture, in Iran, in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Egypt, you can't go anywhere anymore; this is the big picture -- you're going to have Friday prayer at Gaza.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0059par0151	I think it's in Turkey's best interest to believe it's received, and I'm saying that as the AK PARTY Group, we're going to vote positive for the approval of this agreement. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0153	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0060par0154	I looked at the big picture, and you sold the country.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0062par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0156	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0062par0157	In part of the speaker's speech, the speaker used a Turkish passport letter that we would not be ashamed to carry. Now, in the presence of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, what eras are there when an MP and a former Foreign Minister are ashamed of the Turkish passport they carry around for years?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0159	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0062par0160	I believe the speaker should correct such an expression. This is an insult to the nation, an insult to this state, an insult to this country. I'm saying I don't. I'm saying he needs to fix it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0162	Yes, thank you. Mr. Bozır, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0063par0164	I want to make my statement clear, I think it's misunderstood. When I said we wouldn't be ashamed to carry a passport, I also served at consulates, where passports were worn out, stapled together, and you've actually seen them carry Turkish passports with such accordions, and I've seen them. Furthermore, I have spoken as people who have seen passports that are not equipped with electronic data, and are not allowed to be seen at a red light, while those citizens should be proud of that passport at the customs gates, this is a passport, this is a passport, and this is a fake passport. I have spoken as people who have seen them exposed to their statements. From a point like that in the environment today, with a passport with real biometric data, all the information is there, and we've reached a point where we don't know if it's a fugitive or if it's a problem. That's what I meant.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0165	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0063par0166	Otherwise, it's no one's place to disrespect anything of the Republic of Turkey, and I don't think I should...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0061par0167	Yes, thank you. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP who has asked for a personal word on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Oyan.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0064par0171	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, these re-enactment agreements were born as a result of membership relations between EU countries, as a right to free movement. However, candidate countries who have held accession talks have been given a membership perspective, and the right to free movement for candidate countries has also come to the agenda. So the rebuttal agreements are signed in this framework for candidate countries. Now, Turkey's situation does not fit both, neither is an EU member state nor an EU candidate member tied to a specific calendar. In other words, Turkey has not been given a calendar, nor has Turkey been assured of the quality of its EU membership, so as a result of these talks, you will be a full member and a full member under the exact same conditions as the others. Mr. Atalay was -- he was just here -- signed in December 2004 and recognised Turkey's privileged partnership status -- or rather, from open-ended negotiations to a privileged partnership rather than full membership. From the moment an agreement was signed, Turkey's chances of reaching first best are over. From the moment you sign something called the second best, we can also say yes to the privileged partnership. No one will give you full membership after you've said it. Thus, Turkey is taking these talks in such a vulnerable, weak, so pathetic position, and the EU is continuing its relations to gain a position in domestic politics in Turkey. So from 2004, the position for the AKP was to make the very large sections of Turkey believe that AKP is really an EU programme, and to compromise it, they made the compromises, and they made the compromises a lot. Now, the current agreement, which you know from December 16, 2013, began the visa-free travel dialogue, visa liberalisation dialogue, but according to the provisions of the Ankara Agreement, according to the following agreements, Turkey should have already obtained it, but it is an excuse to accept it by binding it on new conditions. It shows the weakness of today's power. Now, look, even when re-acceptance agreements are made with candidate countries in EU countries, two or three years later, visa-free travel is granted; the calendar is given; visa-free travel has been granted for two or three years. There's a very high uncertainty going on here. Because it is unclear what will happen in a three-and-a-half-year negotiation process -- as a result of this three-and-a-half-year negotiation period, which can be extended unilaterally by the EU. In other words, the ▪vize service is a wide open, open-ended dialogue. However, the re-enactment agreement is now in effect. So the disproportionateness could only be in an agreement between a colonial country and that sovereign country. So we think it's a really pathetic kind of deal. We're talking about a long deal with a short carrot stick. You don't even know what a carrot is, but it has a very specific stick. Now, what we're talking about is that this is a process of dialogue -- which is not even using the name of the emancipation, which uses the concept of cooperation in the case, so its scope is limited, so it can be predicted in certain limited social categories -- businessmen and so on -- and so on -- and it's probably hard for all citizens of the Republic of Turkey to get a result that can be valid even for the citizens of Turkey. These compromises are really extreme. These concessions, however, should also be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Family Ferts, from the basic human rights contracts of the United Nations. There's not a fiscal portrait of this rebuttal agreement. With this recycling agreement, Turkey will take on how much costs from the travel costs of immigrants it will accept from it to the housing costs of its immigrants, which have not been presented in any way in commissions or here in the General Assembly to our knowledge, but what is far more serious is the matter: The Reception Agreement itself concerns our citizens, so see, Turkey's obligation to re-enact its own citizens, except that it is now under the obligation of Turkish citizens who demand extradition, to enter, to be in the country and to live in the country, or to provide the conditions that are now in line with all these conditions. So the European countries seem to have found a solution to high unemployment in their own country, a solution to reducing growing social security spending in their own country. Send it back; I mean, it's incredible. When a government that can't protect its own citizens' rights, when it loses its job, etcetera, and opens its door to its return, it's really protecting the interests of its own citizens. See, I've done the EU thing without a visa. Apart from accepting Turkish citizens back, let's say third-country citizens who passed through Turkey have legal positions in EU countries, and therefore have been accepted to the EU, and Turkey allows them to pass through in this way, but now, if third-world citizens who have passed by and have gone away are no longer able to provide them with their position, their legal positions there, I'll accept them. That's not my job. So as the Republic of Turkey, I looked at the parameters that the EU wanted from me, that it went to those third world countries and those countries, and the EU accepted it. It's been two years. Their position there has become secular and sends it back to me. What right do you have to send me? You accepted him. All the mechanisms, all the legal procedures are complete, you can't do that. We're dealing with a kind of power that doesn't even have the guts to say it. I really think it's a shame. So here, there's also a relationship of reciprocity on paper. Look, Turkey may have signed a re-enactment agreement with other countries one by one. But the principle of reciprocity there has a lot more meaning. Does that mean anything to you? Is there really a resemblance to the number of people who live in Turkey's EU outlet, their quality, or the number of citizens of the Republic of Turkey living in Europe, or the numerical size of people who have passed through here, or their social position? So this thing called reciprocity here, it's a complete sellout. We're dealing with a kind of power that, really, as it gets weaker, as it gets weaker inside, as its foreign policy collapses, it becomes more and more compromised out there. This government is doing it today in a rescinding agreement, starting in Cyprus, doing it in other areas, showing its practices against all the interests of this country in Syria, Iraq. He will likely be able to make such compromises in the next 2015 issue of Armenians. Thus, we are faced with a dire example of political irresponsibility. In fact, this power is very unfortunate for Turkey. It's unfortunate, especially in today's circumstances. So the European Union is setting a trap for Turkey, and in Turkey, AKP power is setting a trap for its own citizens, and they're trying to sell it to us by calling it Europe without a visa. I'd like to remind you once again that I'm not going to approve of this, that we're not going to. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0065par0180	Thank you. Mehmet Tasem Tekelioğlu, İzmir MP who asked for a word on the entire bill. Here you are, Mr. Tekeelioğlu.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0066par0184	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Illegal immigration is not just one of the major problems of Turkey, but almost all countries around the world. The attraction of developing economies has become a target country, so we're dealing with this migration. The need of developing and developing economies for trained manpower also brings another kind of migration to our attention, but it's not on our agenda today. I finally attended a meeting in Athens, because he was president of Greece, because he called it the COSAC meeting. Among their priorities and the issues that they need to study, this migration is occupying a very important place. Italy, which will then assume the presidency of the European Union, is now almost at the point of dissolution of its relations with the European Union, and the Italians often express their discomfort over the fact that the European Union does not support Italy in this migration. I imagine that this issue will continue to occupy the European Union's agenda during the presidency of the period that Italy will then take over. We, in fact, have been preparing for this illegal migration, immigration work for a long time, and somewhere, we want the European Union's re-enactment agreement, the visa liberalisation business, more than the European Union. We need this because if we've set the European Union as a target, then we need to figure this out. If we don't put some kind of will in order to get this done, then there's a sense that we're not realistic about the European Union's goals, which is not true. As far as I know, seven housing centres are already being built, such as the re-accession center, and a significant part of them are being brought up with the support of the European Union. My dear friends, Turkey is continuing its zeal for the European Union. We've, you know, done some important work on the reform package in September, just finished one. Every day work continues on regulations, notifications, etc. With all this debate, all this work, there's absolutely no question that we're holding back on this very important issue of the European Union. You know, there's a Covenant Zapt created by Turkey during the signing of the European Union Reception Agreement, let's call it a road map. There are four important issues here, and we're not supposed to miss these four important issues. The first is that Turkey has the right to dissolution of this agreement within the framework of Article 24 if the visa exemption agreement is not carried out by citizens of the third country, so we need to know well that if we don't get visa liberalisation, such an agreement will not come into effect, although it is clear how important it is if our goal is to ensure visa liberalisation. A second issue is that Turkey's implementation of the 1951 Geneva Convention on the legal status of refugees can only be assessed in the process of becoming a full member of the EU. So that's how we get over the problem with this geographical limitation. The third point is that we will only accept the European Union's visa policy, including a transit visa, with membership. The fourth point is that some international agreements, contracts and protocols on the road map have been recorded that we will be directly involved in the visa exemption process alone. Now, folks, there's another very important thing that we're going to get with this feedback agreement, which is integrated border management and customs automation. We need to ensure border automation, integrated border management, customs automation, whether we have relations with the European Union or not. We're gonna need some help for that, too. Now, it costs a lot of money. So, in our relations with the European Union, we will have both provided that and reduced jobs that would be subject to re-acceptance, integrated border management and customs automation. Here, Mr. Volcano gave me some figures about Greece, and I'm not going to repeat them, but it's very clear from those numbers how high the numbers start and how low the numbers end. So there's a lot more work we can do. Our goal with the European Union continues so quickly that it has been confirmed once again during Mr. Prime Minister's visit to Brussels in January. The integrity and continuity of Turkey's will for the European Union, as well as the European Union's approach to it, of course, leads us to hope for the future. If we can discuss democracy, human rights, the rule of law, all of it in our society, with its power, its opposition, its civil society, its thinking institutions, its universities, in a reasonable environment, if we can keep the debates at meaningful levels, of course this will be an important instrument that will pave the way for Turkey. And there's also this perception that there are some countries in the European Union that we need to fix, and that's a paper that we have to do. It's as if if if visa liberalisation were to happen, all Turks, Anatolia, all of them would flow into the European Union. Friends, Turkey is no longer Turkey ten years ago. Turkey is now a country that can provide its people with bread, and our people know about the crisis in the European Union. Our people there were so impressed by that crisis that all of our friends, all of our MPs, and everyone knows it. Therefore, the European Union, in fact, is no longer an attractive centre for Turkey. There are two reasons: one: Turkey's growth, its economic growth, and its ability to provide more work here, and two: the European Union has now closed the door to such people. In fact, we have one very important thing to do: if we can deal with our education problem with reasonable debates and increase our trained human strength, then I believe that the European Union will tell us to send us people who are trained, successful people. We need to make sure of that. In fact, if we put all our power in there, maybe we'll be at a much better place. Like I said, Turkey is becoming a center of attraction. That's how we see how many people come to our country to work, how many Turkey has become a center of attraction. If we can get the integrated border management and our customs automation to do all of this well, then our problems with re-accession will be reduced to that extent. In that regard, of course, we have a lot of work to do. We have troubled areas, and of course we need to improve our democracy. We have the rule of law, we have steps to take in human rights, but we have a very strong will to carry them out, that will above all else. And so, if we can argue at reasonable levels, I believe we won't have any problem with that. In fact, there are other steps we take in these matters. You know, it takes three to three and a half years to get this deal into effect. If the visa liberalisation was finally achieved, then these deals will go into effect. Also, in order to prepare for these procedures, you know that in order to reform our immigration management system, to organize our immigration management -- let's just say the name -- we've established the General Directorate of Immigration; this is a very important step. In addition, in the sense of preparing here, we have again removed the International Protection Act and the International Protection Act from this framework. My dear friends, there's more work to be done for the growing Turkey, and we can do all of this together. We need all this in order for Turkey to have an active policy and a say in the region. Until yesterday, when we made visa-free deals with these countries, it was now too much. Now, we've made it so routine that we've made it possible to travel without visas with many countries in the world. Hopefully, this rebuttal agreement will also lead to charity. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0067par0202	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0068par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it a coincidence that this agreement to turn Turkey into an illegal immigrant camp and a third world country was signed at such a time? Why did the timing come to this period when it was signed recently, even though it had not been signed by AKP governments so far, is that a coincidence? Does the Great Middle East Project and the strategic pit that Turkey has fallen into have any effect on the signing of this agreement at this time? The second question is, how many Turkish citizens will come back? Which of the African and Middle East countries did not sign a re-enactment agreement with Turkey? According to this agreement, how many illegal immigrants are expected from these countries to Turkey?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0069par0208	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0070par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. After this agreement is in effect, how many 100,000 of our citizens are currently living and working in EU countries will be victims? Again, after this agreement is in effect, how many citizens of countries, including Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, who live in EU countries, will be extradited to our country? What will the annual cost of this agreement be to Turkey? Again, how many Syrian citizens live in our country now? In what cities do they live, and how do they live? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0071par0213	Thank you. Mr. Young... Thank you. Mr. President, it has been nearly two months since the decision of four ministers to form the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on charges of theft and corruption has been established. According to Article 100 of the Constitution, the commission of this investigation must decide within two months. The AKP is not assigning members of the investigative commission to cover up these corruption and thefts. In order for the Turkish National Assembly to announce the public every time the Deputy Chairman of the Grand National Assembly opens the merger, he has to force the public to inform them that AKP has not signed on to this commission and that he should be a member of this commission. Otherwise, both the AKP and Cemil Cicek are committing the Constitutional crime, and I would like to remind you. Now, the person sitting in the government has nothing to do with the pilgrim. So, what question is he going to answer? That's why I'm here...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0072par0219	...is a serious non-existent situation by the AKP. They bring in an ignorant man and make him sit down. Who am I going to ask?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0071par0220	Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0073par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. How many countries have a re-enactment agreement with Turkey? How many people have been sent back to their country in the last ten years? How many immigrants are there in our country now, what are their numbers? How many people have been sent back from Greece to our country? I'd like to know how many people have died on their way to other countries after they've been smuggled into Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0074par0224	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0075par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2012 and 2013, how many people have been caught trying to break into European countries? How many of these have been returned to our country? Again, how many people died, especially when Greece and Bulgaria wanted to move on? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0076par0229	Thank you. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0077par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. I have two questions for the Minister. My first question is, if any country of the European Union gives a statement about a person entering its country without permission to be admitted, according to the State Commission's statement, it will be discussed on a commission that will be set up for us. Well, explain, Mr. Secretary, what will happen if the commission refuses to accept this. The second question is: A change in the terms of our citizens' residence in the countries of the European Union may be asked to extradite our citizens to Turkey. This is a very dangerous situation for Turkish citizens, and on what basis is the agreement being ruled out? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0078par0236	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0079par0238	Mr. Secretary, since the Commissioner is with you, I think you'll answer the questions. Now, he spoke of a foreign policy he couldn't finish praising during his 12-year reign. 1) How many countries are present in the European Union? I'm just asking because I'm curious. 2) Has the European Union been entered during your rule? If not, what do the fireworks that were detonated during the day in Rediay mean? 3) Are the countries agreed to open chapters with us entering the European Union? 4) Which European countries outside the European Union and the European Union have been granted visas? 5) When you revolutionize a passport, you are the President of the Commission, stating that you were previously ashamed to carry a Turkish passport. What countries use biometric passports with Turkey today? What is the number of Turkey's rankings? How many countries do they use? 6) Did Turkey enter the European Union and we didn't notice it? 7) Europe and...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0080par0248	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0081par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, today is a special day, and the decisions regarding the Sledgehammer have been announced, and there is a very happy situation in this regard. I sincerely celebrate the Constitutional Court's decision, but it's not just enough, we'll see the days when the judges who gave these unjust arrests in order to eliminate the results of the sledgehammer will be judged, I hope, by those who have done this scheme. First, I want him out of here. And I have a traffic ticket report right behind him. She's the daughter of a friend I know very well; she doesn't weigh 40 kilos. Traffic was fined for administrative fines due to May 31st. Due to the anniversary of the travel events, he is being sentenced to $356 for blocking the road in Eskişehir. So I'm celebrating the police officer under this criminal record. I'm also congratulating officials of the Eskişehir Security Department, who contributed to this report, and how they filed such a report. How did this 40-pound kid cut this road? How did they do that? I mean, that's not gonna happen. I mean, politicians, the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0082par0254	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0083par0256	Mr. Secretary, is there any way to make amends ninety-nine years after death? We will enter the 100th year of 1915 next year in 2015. Now, why did we come in here with a condolence? What does the Prime Minister want to do with his condolences? We have four agreements, international agreement: Customs Agreement, Moscow Agreement, Kars Agreement, Lausanne Agreement. It has been decided that Armenia is no longer demanding land and compensation from us. Now, with that condolences, with Mr. Prime Minister's condolences, are we beginning to give up our rights to these things, are we slowly going down that road? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0082par0258	Thank you. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0084par0260	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the decision made by the AYM yesterday, our Engin Area MP is being released today. We'll pick him up in a minute. Hopefully, Turkey will take its place in the Grand National Assembly next week. It would certainly be the honor of the Turkish Grand National Assembly to have a man who served his country with honor, his nation, and then to be replaced by the nation's gratitude in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's why I'm telling him to get well, and I'm saying good luck.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0082par0262	Thank you. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0085par0264	Mr. President, thank you. Yesterday, we had two major incidents in the history of law: first, a life sentence for the two generals who were still alive who did the September 12th military coup. The second is the release of the elected MP using the right to an individual application in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision yesterday. Which, I suppose, will be able to come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or next week. On September 12, 2010, when we made this constitutional amendment, those who said that if these walls had a language, a language, a speech, and a great power that day, with great faith, that the Constitutional amendment would not judge the coupgers, that their own motions would work, and that our motion would not be passed, it would not be judged by the coupgers of September 12th.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0086par0268	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0085par0269	He'll see they're wrong. I suppose Mr. Alan will thank 58 percent on this stand.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0087par0270	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0085par0271	You wouldn't understand.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0088par0272	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0273	Mr. President, dear friends, first and foremost, we'll be happy to have Mr. Engin Alan be released as of today, and then under oath in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0090par0274	How will you be lawful?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0275	I'm already saying, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group and on behalf of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, may it be better for the sake of national will. I'd like to express it first. Of course, secondly, there is no minister on the subject of Mr. Young. Of course, if there is such a system, it would be a privilege for the MPs to ask questions about the matter, but my interest is at least as a member of parliament who crossed the border, as a minister, as a resident of immigration, as a person who knows exactly what it is.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0091par0277	Where is Ahmet, where is he?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0278	Now, Mr. Young, in this sense, I believe that this agreement that will parallel the dynamics of our country's process in the next three-and-a-half years with the issue of visa exemption -- both for our country and for the dynamics in the process. The number of irregular immigrants caught on the Edirne border in 2013 is 16,383, and the number of immigrants captured until May 2014. Again, 48,300 irregular immigrants have been arrested in Turkey in the last five years, 2009 and 2013. According to the ranking, the nationalities of those caught in Edirne were listed as the top five countries, Syria, Myanmar, Palestine, Afghanistan, Eritrea. Again, the number of illegal immigrants captured by Greece and Bulgaria border security units has decreased by 35 per cent, the number 2011-2012, or rather a 35 per cent reduction in 2011-2012.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0092par0280	How many, Mr. Secretary? We asked for the number.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0281	I've given you the other numbers as numbers, and I've given you this as a ratio of 2011 to 2012, but the irregular migration in 2013 is 16,383; it's 5,127 by May 2014, but 2011, 2012, we'll give you the numbers in writing. In 2002, our citizens were able to travel to 42 countries without visas, while today they are able to travel to 70 countries without visas.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0093par0283	What countries? Mr. Secretary, I know the number, which countries were it made to?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0094par0284	He'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0285	We'll send it to you in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0093par0286	I wonder if Papua New Guinea is in there.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0287	Sir?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0093par0288	Is Papua New Guinea in there?
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0095par0289	There's no such procedure...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0290	Yes, I hope to send it to you in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0093par0291	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0292	Greece and Bulgaria are illegally captured by border security units... We still have a re-acceptance agreement with thirteen countries: Syria, Greece, Kyrgyzstan, Romania, Ukraine, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Nigeria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yemen, Moldova, Belarus and Montenegro. The rebuttal agreement has been under discussion since 2003, and the reason for the signing of the agreement now is to ensure that the negotiations last longer and in return start the process of visa exemption. The rebuttal agreement will not change the current status of our Turkish citizens in the EU's illegal status. Because Turkish citizens in an illegal situation are already deported by member states. This agreement is not a single text; the re-enactment agreement, the visa exemption process, the road map, financial aid, etc. co-organises a system together. This system also aims to strengthen border security against citizens of the third country, who are illegally entering our country. Three years later, reinforced border security will breach our borders and significantly reduce the number of third-country citizens. The rebuttal agreement will not affect our citizens who are legally residing or working in EU countries, nor will the relevant clauses of the re-enactment agreement affect our citizens who are illegal in these countries.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0096par0295	That's not true, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0296	Under Article 23 of the Constitution, all citizens cannot be deprived of the right to enter the home, and there will be no change in the current situation.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0097par0297	That's not what Article 2/3 says.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0089par0298	The procedure for resuscitation of third-country citizens is clearly under way in Article 4 of the Reception Agreement. The list of documents required for re-acceptance is also detailed in addition to the agreement, in addition to the 3rd and 4th additions. On the basis of these documents, the decision to accept back is in this country's discretion. Yes, my dear friends, I'll report the other unanswered ones in writing.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0098par0300	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. On the whole bill...
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0099par0303	Mr. President, there's still time.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0098par0304	There's time, but no one's been in the system, lawmakers, we're looking at the screen here. Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0100par0306	Minister, in addition to the question I just asked, I'd like to ask you something. Here 514,000 Muslim Turks, officially listed in our prime minister's records, were killed by Armenian gangs. Have we been given any condolences for this 514 thousand Turks? If not, why do we offer them our condolences? I'm looking for an answer. I'd appreciate it if you'd be so kind. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0101par0310	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0102par0312	Dear friends, of course, the government of the Republic of Turkey will continue to show us its necessary dynamics, its sensitivity to what has been done in history, but in this sense, our condolences do not mean that our fellow citizens and our descendants should be ignored.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0101par0313	Thank you. The question-answer process is complete. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0103par0316	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit02spe0101par0317	I'll submit it to your votes, but there's a roll call, and I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Silver, Mr. Bay Bayuttan, Mr. Bilger, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Candy, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Korturk and Mr. Oyan. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we don't have enough meetings, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-19sit03spe0101par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 106th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough meeting in the roll call before the 554th Bill of Law was passed. Now, we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since there is not enough meeting in the second roll call, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (June 24th 2014) to discuss other tasks from the commission of parliamentary investigations 381 and 489 on the special agenda, respectively, with verbal questions and billing and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
