tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Van MP Kemal Aktaş, who asked for the appointment of Working Child Labor Day. Here you go, Mr. Aktaş.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, you know it's June 12th, Children's Day of the World. On this occasion, I made a personal pledge. I salute you all. We're in the middle of a time when children are exploited within the capitalist production system. Right now, we're dealing with a reality where children are being exploited, even when we're speaking for working children. This desire for profit includes so much exploitation that even though children are not allowed to work, one day the Labored Children's Day will be determined, and the irony will be revealed. So children who work against all regulations and struggles maintain reality as long as possible, its presence and influence throughout the world. Each child must have the right to benefit from the care and care needed for its own well - being, to be able to express its material and spiritual existence freely, to maintain sexual exploitation, violence, protection from all kinds of abuse and abuse, to maintain a family life, to have personal and direct relationship with its parents, to know its parents, to benefit from appropriate care, housing, education, basic health care and social services. Despite this requirement, according to the Istanbul Labor Health and Occupational Safety Assembly, 1.235 workers who lost their lives in 2013 in Turkey are children's workers. The number of working children has exceeded 1 million. More than 50% of working children do not continue to study. We can make it very clear by moving from the gap between what is and what is supposed to be: Children are now under a major shutdown in identity exploitation, sexual exploitation, and many other areas, particularly labor exploitation. For children in the field of labor exploitation, there is also a return to the 1800s, the early periods of violent capitalism. As a matter of fact, not just labour exploitation, but identity exploitation, a new form of exploitation today after the 1800s. This form of exploitation of the nation's state and political understanding based on singleness is based on the exploitation of children in language, education, identity. Children who demand language, identity and cultural rights face inhuman practices such as sexual abuse practices in prisons, street executions. Again, the children of this ignored public reality are subjected to all kinds of abuse, inhumane practices, while the perpetrators are rewarded with punishment. At Bingöl, 16 years old, E. A. 8 expert sergeants who sexually abused a girl of their own are being rewarded with punishment. Again, the presence of more than 2,000 child prisoners in Turkey shows the kind of closure children face. As a matter of fact, the political pressure of a single management device is also the most likely to hit children and women. The majority of child workers who work in work called second digits in Turkey's metropolitan areas are children of families who have been forced to emigrate. Both because of their political identity and because of their hard work, these children suffer the pain of broken family reality. Finally, the situation of children who fled the civil war in Syria on the occasion of Labor Children's Day should be noted. What happens to these children in the camp is under heavy conditions. Daughters are in danger of being sold for money, and many of those who do not stay in camps today lie on the streets in many cities of Turkey and are subject to an inhumanity. From all this, I move that June 12th, Children's Day (June 12th) would be a start for children to get out of labor, identity and sexual exploitation, and I urge all political parties and decisionmakers, especially the government, to be sensitive about it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Aktaş. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer, who wants to talk about the issues of İstanbul's Adalar district. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0004par0027	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment on the issues of the Islander district, one of the main districts of İstanbul, and on our proposal for a solution to this issue. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I condemn the terrorists who entered our consulate, which was considered Turkish soil in Mosul, who captured our diplomats and citizens, and those who supported them, and I invite the government to be more sensitive about something like this, to protect our national interests, and to express my regrets to the Parliament that they did not promise to give any information. The island district, with a population of 9 islands in total, has a unique, special location in the world, different from other districts of Istanbul. The island district was declared by the High Council for the Protection of Culture and Naturalities in 1984, a historical, natural and urban site, and therefore a whole of sites. I mean, it's the only county in our country that's all-state. The islands, with a registered population of 16,000, have a significant population difference between summer and winter. The island of Istanbul is very close to Istanbul, and its population is more than 200,000 when weather conditions are available, especially in the summer, when the island is flooded with one-day visitors due to the easy transportation. This population difference in the islands is causing major setbacks in the services of the town's municipality. For years, there has been no permanent solution to these problems. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, their share of the City of Islands' general budget revenues is determined according to the winter population, so they get a share of 16,000 people. Half of this allowance is being paid by the Bank of Provinces, and the remaining half can only cover 10% of the staff costs. The Islands are also deprived of construction and housing allowance due to construction bans. And the income from property taxes... The islands, which are about one-third of their buildings -- which is ancient -- are limited to property tax revenues due to various exemptions. The health problems of the islands have so far been unresolved. This concerns people who live in the islands in summer and winter and even come here for the weekend. Therefore, for 5 islands, either a full hospital should be built or a black ambulance, a marine ambulance, and staff support that will serve for 24 hours. A major problem with islands is transportation. The islands, where the most expensive transportation is provided, are not scheduled to meet the expectations of winter and summer. Moreover, the transport provided by boats has been assigned to small private passenger engines, which are less secure than the ferry, due to its high cost. These engines endanger citizens' safety in negative weather conditions. The staff and staff problem of the City Hall of Islands has not been resolved. Service buildings of the Metropolitan or County Special Administration have been transferred to other institutions for various reasons. These should be handed over to the City of the Islands for free. Gene, all areas that remain within the borders of the City of the Islands, used as beaches, must be transferred to the municipality free of charge. The islands must be created with new resources and brought to a special status. As it is known, in 1927 the local administration of Bozcaada and Gökceada was given a special status in the organisation. The law was adopted during the Ataturk period in order to regulate the needs of these islands in a most appropriate way, which cannot be met with their own specific and general laws. The problems of the island district are not difficult to solve. Two legal proposals prepared by us on this matter are on the agenda of the House. On behalf of the people of the islands, I expect all my fellow lawmakers to support this offer, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Halil Özcan. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement to present my views on the Berat Kandili. I hereby salute your high council. We have the joy of reaching Berat Kandili, a messenger of the month of Ramadan, as we grasp the three months of tolerance and fertility that raise each of us to spiritual peace. Candles are special nights, such as meditation, self-renewance, divine forgiveness, which allows all of us to be spiritually cleansed, to rise to peace, and to do accounting. The candles are the happy moments of bringing love and peace into the community, knowing each other as friends and brothers and sisters, making orphans happy, harboring the poor, making peace with the loved ones, starting with our relatives, and finally, the joys of getting into each other's hearts, the qualities of being human. On this blessed night, when our hearts are brought together with a different enthusiasm, let us look out through the window of wisdom to the world, leaving aside the weaknesses of our own. The life we live is mortal. And what is with Allah is our faith and our deeds of righteousness. Let us love man because he is a man, and tolerate him because of him that is God, and look upon the world through the window of mercy. Let us never forget the fact that we cannot have mature faith unless we love one another with the blessed declaration of our beloved prophet. Let us not sow hatred and hatred, but seeds of love and peace. Let's eliminate hostility, resentment, and resentment, without opening doors to lies, whispers, slanders. The believers are only brothers. Do not be divided. Let us consolidate our unity and unity once again, considering the counsels of the verses. It is known to all that we are going through a difficult period in which there is a need for peace, love, and tolerance that is clouding our spiritual joy inside and out. Unfortunately, we both know that there are lives in the world of Islam that suffer war, conflict, and destruction, that suffer from hunger and poverty. It is not possible for us to be indifferent to all these human dramas today as it was yesterday. We're responsible as individuals and as a nation. Now, let's take this blessed time zone from our side to wherever our hands and hearts lie. Now let's share our joys. Like the poor, the weird and the oppressed, let's remember once again our humanity, which we must remember. In many parts of the world's geography, especially Syria, Egypt, Afghanistan and Palestine, conflicts, human rights violations and wars have led to the deaths of innocent civilians. On this blessed night of lamp night, once again, I wish the tears of the world's humanity would stop. With these feelings and thoughts, I sincerely congratulate our beloved nation and all the Islamic world on the Berat Kandili, to strengthen our unity and unity of this night's prayers, to bring peace and peace to all mankind, regardless of religion, language, race, or religion, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0051	Thank you. Congressmans, we, the Court, are celebrating the Berat Kandili of our MPs, Parliament staff and press employees. We wish it to bring peace, peace and brotherhood to our country and all mankind.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0056	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0057	Can I have a very short word for Article 60?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0058	We're not making any promises based on Article 60.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0059	When we ask for a very brief word, you can say it. I'm not asking for a normal minute, I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0060	Are you going to make a statement about something?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0061	Yes, I have a brief statement to make.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0062	Here you go. About something?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0063	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0064	Okay, well, go ahead, but at this point, we don't promise anyone but the agenda.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0065	I know, sir, I know.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0066	Look, they came from other parties, and I didn't promise them. Let there be no injustice.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0067	But it's important.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0068	Please, let me ask you, Mr. Haydar. Because, like I said, it came from the ruling party.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0069	Mr. President, how else can I take your word for it?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0070	There are motions, you can talk to them.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0071	But it's not the subject of the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0072	Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0073	Mr. Energy Minister is here. Three miners...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0074	Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0007par0076	We're talking off-the-tops right now. I didn't promise anyone but the agenda, and I didn't promise any of the friends who just came in. Don't leave me in an inequality situation. Thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0077	Mr. President, I have to say this in terms of the transcripts. Look, it's been about a month since Soma's murder. A month later, three miners lost their lives in Şırnak yesterday.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0009par0079	We know all this.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0080	Yeah, you know, but you're not doing anything, bro, you're not doing anything!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0009par0081	What are we gonna do? What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0082	You know, you know what you're doing?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0009par0083	What are you gonna do?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0008par0084	Look, the Minister of Energy is sitting there...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0010par0085	Thank you, Mr. Akar. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The requirement for a healthy life of olives and olive oil is to increase consumption; to expand the domestic and external market; to improve productivity loss and quality; to improve olivery; to build and develop licensed stock markets; to create and develop licensed storage and product residency; to determine the types of plant production, to determine detection and solution proposals; to address the development of oliveism as a state policy; to provide an additional basis for the development of internal rule, according to the results. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 2) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 11) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] 17) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 18) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] 21) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] 23) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] Olives and olive oil are an important food of the Mediterranean people, and a health-giving food ingredient that is the basis of the Mediterranean and Aegean trade. A very important problem in the industry is the attack. The charge reaches 50 per cent. The proper workers are unable to compete with the attackers. Olive agriculture is made at a primitive level. The farmer is not supported even by the law in Turkey. It is not easy to compete with abroad because our rival country's farmers receive bonuses around the market prices in our country. High energy prices, the import of machines, the cost of spare parts, the unilateral determination of prina prices are key issues in the industry. It is wrong to put European quotas in olive oil. Algeria was given 50,000 tonnes of quota, while Turkey was given 200 tonnes of quota is an unfair practice. Some of the oils sold as brands in Europe are from Turkey as a spill. However, if the packaging and packaging system is given importance, exports will rise and prices will rise. Five percent of our exports did not bring profit to our country, to the manufacturer, because it was wrapped up in 5 percent of the spills that didn't bring value to any of the exports. The countries, such as Italy, which buy oil from ships and cast oil from our country, are packing and gaining higher revenues. When the customs union was signed, the oil was called industrial products, so the customs tax was imposed. In order for our exporters to compete, such mistakes must be corrected. The production costs need to be reduced, the trees need to grow younger. The olive groves must be encouraged to plant olive plants. Most manufacturers still use secondhand harvesters. It's in the government's interest to have the exporter fight with the manufacturer, whose lobby is less money for the weak sector. The failure of the industry to agree with itself has left the state uninterested in the issues. The sector has been destroyed by the internal processing regime. The scissors are very high between production and retail sales. The farmer doesn't have the power because of the height of the profit margin of the markets. That means the consumer's been fooled, too. As the government guides the problems facing the small manufacturer, he should help the small manufacturer become a victim with the big producers and support their organization to ensure that they don't disappear. Not in cloth bags, but with a strong flood, plastic safe, and so on, the manufacturer needs to be conscious and supported because it will increase quality and efficiency. Because of the lack of mechanisation in production, costs are both higher and lower in quality and efficiency. Especially the most expensive part of olive production is that the farmer needs to be supported to become a machine in collecting products, to reduce costs without reducing quality. The producers must be helped to develop new harvest machines and reduce production costs. Olive oil should be supported, not olive oil. As with the entire agricultural sector, supporting government-led RD studies in olive production will increase quality and efficiency. In order to improve the marketing process operating against the manufacturer in the production-trade chain, the state must support the manufacturer in co-operativeization. Prims and supports must be determined in a way that will guide and enhance the sector. In particular, co-operativeisation and the active employment of the manufacturer within the co-op are important for the development of the sector. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Emigrations from Turkey to Europe, which began after World War II, have become a direct influence on the modern European social structure. The number of Turks living abroad, mostly in Europe, is nearing 4 million. This has been a potential for lobbying, but has not yet been achieved in this sense. Moreover, the uncertainty of relations with the European Union (EU) strengthens this negativity. Turkish people living in Europe, most of whom work in labour status, expect our country to support them, as they struggle organisedly and try to take part in politics and social life at the point of resolving their problems. In recent years, growing racist trends in Europe have been considered the most important problems available for countries to try to back down on earned rights, the fact that visa exemption from the 1963 Ankara Agreement has not yet been granted, the identity issue and the recent setbacks in education and the latest Agreement for Responsibility will lead to various problems. European countries are working to step back from the achievements of Partnership Council Decision 3/80, which regulates social security relations between Turkey and the EU. Some EU countries work to reduce aid, such as disability, old age, death, job accident, occupational illness. In contrast, the EU Justice Council's decisions have prevented restrictions, but the EU Commission (3/80) is working to change OKK. However, there is not enough public information in our country. The need for special studies to create awareness and report it to EU countries has arisen. Some EU countries face difficulties with education, leaving our citizens in a difficult position. For example, Turkish courses in the Netherlands were removed as an elective until 2004. Our citizens there teach their children Turkish lessons in courses around mosques. The Netherlands is reluctant to send teachers from Turkey and is reluctant to provide this training because of its burden on the budget. Turks living in the Netherlands are prepared to file a lawsuit on this issue, but expect support from our country. One of the most important problems for our citizens living in Europe is the Agreement for Retribution. Although debates have been postponed over the removal of EU Justice and Interior ministers from Brussels on 24 February and 25 February 2011, which envisions the extradition of third-country citizens into EU countries illegally, the issue will soon be raised. Under the agreement, the person who illegally emigrated from another country to Turkey using transit will be extradited to Turkey, not to his country. In the event of the Responsibility Agreement, it is known that a citizen of our country, which has the right to reside in any European country, can be deported in case he makes any mistakes in the extension process and can only continue his case with the proceedings related to the appeals from Turkey, which would mean that he would go back from the rights earned and would cause serious difficulties. The economic crisis in Europe in particular shows that policies against immigrants, especially Turks, will change. Our citizens abroad say that, under the 1963 Treaty of Ankara, Turks have the right to visa exemptions, that they have won cases in case they are not granted visas, and that these rights should not be negotiated, and that the government should not sign the Agreement for Responsion. In this context, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, especially our citizens living in Europe, in order to investigate and address the problems of our citizens living abroad. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Malatya]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] 21) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] 23) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, unemployment insurance was established on 25/08/999 by Law 4447. A large financial fund has been created by this law. The start of unemployment fund bonus cuts in June 2000, and the start of unemployment allowance in return in March 2002, was the start of the fund's savings to large sums. However, in the ten-year period of monitoring, however, entry into the funds has been constantly increasing, while unemployment allowances have been extremely limited. As of April 2012, unemployment insurance funds amounted to $74 billion 463 million, outputs totalling $18 billion, 571 million, and a total of $55 billion 892. From March 2002 to 31/05/2012, 3 million 255,29 people have applied and 2 million 570,89 people have been eligible for unemployment allowance. From March 2002 to May 31st, 2012, a total of $4 billion was paid at $332 million,368,347. The main reason for the openness between the raised bonuses and the unemployment allowance for the unemployed is because it is difficult to enter the system as a right. When this is added to the amount of payments to those who benefit from the system (the minimum wage is paid half as much as it is paid) and the shortness of the allowance (180, 240 or 300 days at the most), the lack of resources-payments or "designary-employment dues" imbalance is growing. The fact that the benefits are too heavy shows that the main function of the Unemployment Fund is to create a conditional debt source for public financing from the start rather than solving problems stemming from the unemployment problem. Indeed, most of its funding has been linked to long-term government bonds since it was established. One of the factors that extends the average period of public debt and partially reduces real interest is this kind of public debt. As of the end of May 2012, 18.85 per cent of the total funds are free bonds, 77.88 per cent coupon bonds, 1.76 per cent deposits, and 1.51% foreign currency protection accounts. Funds also function as a function of making the public public's primary surplus greater than it is. A far more negative situation than the fund's fiscal function load is the transfer of funds from the 2008 budget to the budget on unreturnable and increasing scales. "This fund is outside the scope of the budget, and no cuts can be made and no income can be saved in the General Budget." Despite its ruling, the first Article 19 of Law No. 15/5/2008 dated 5763, and then Law 5920 and 5921 issued on 26/6/2009 and 11/8/2009, this time three-quarters of the funding's revenues -- specialising in 2009 -- have been applied to the general budget. So the amount transferred by connecting to the ratio has been greatly increased. So much more of the funds for the unemployed began to be patched into the budget. By the end of 2011, unemployment allowance totalled 4 billion 541 million euros, a sum of 206 million euros, and two totals of 4 billion 747 million euros, while the amount transferred to the budget in 2008-2011 was up to 10 billion 151 million dollars. So the funds began to become significantly corroded. In the same way, providing temporary funds through temporary arrangements for certain parts of employer's insurance premiums for employment incentives during times of crisis is an out-of-profit practice. With respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of the Constitution, in order to ensure that the Fund of Unemployment can be used more effectively and in line with its purpose, so that more employment can be created, professional education is developed, and, ultimately, a common political understanding can be developed within the TBMM in order to reduce unemployment. [[İzmir]] 2) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Aydın]] [[Tunceli]] [[Edirne]] [[Malatya]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] 23) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Manisa]] 25) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion issued for the Republican People's Party Group (11/36) that the primary Gensorial Proclamation (11/36) has been reinstated, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We are withdrawing the primary Gensorial Proclamation (11/36) on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to be returned later. We'll see what we can do. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Engin Altay CHP Group Deputy Chair CHP Deputy Chair It has been presented to your knowledge. There is a motion to withdraw the signatures of the main proposal (9/9) on the opening of a parliamentary investigation into Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, given by Yalova MP Muharrem İnce and 58 MPs: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We withdraw the main inquiry motion on Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan (9/9) to be handed over later. We'll see what we can do. 1) Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Yalova]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] 6) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Amasya]] 9) Suleiman Senser Ayata [[Ankara]] 10) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 11) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 13) Mehmet Emrehan Halici [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Ardahan]] [[Aydın]] 19) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 20) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 21) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] 28) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Denizli]] [[Edirne]] [[Erzincan]] [[Gaziantep]] 33) Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu [[Let's go.]] [[Hatay]] 35) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 36) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] 37) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 39) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 41) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] 50) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 51) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Mughle]] [[Niğde]] [[Army]] 57) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 58) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Zonguldak]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion for a parliamentary investigation has been withdrawn. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Thursday 12/6/2014 (today), I would like to request that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The agenda's "The Bill of Law and Other Trades From Commissions" has been adopted into the 4th place of the Law Charter 601, and the order of other tasks has been determined according to this. On Thursday (June 12th 2014) until the completion of the talks of Law Bill 592 in the unification of Thursday (Today), when the meeting of Law Bill 592 in this merger was not completed until Friday (June 13th 2014), at 14 p.m. on Friday (June 2014) outside the weekly working days of the Law Bill 592 in which the talks were not completed. Until the meeting at 00 and the meeting of the bill and proposals in this merger and the meeting of other jobs from the commissions and the completion of the talks of Bill 592; Until Tuesday, June 17, 2014, when verbal questions were not discussed and the talks of Law Bill 601 were completed, Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 18th 2014), until the meeting of the 590th Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Thursday, June 19, 2014, until the meeting of the 420th Bill of Laws, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; To continue his studies, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the Law Bill 601 is considered to be the main law, and its sections are the same as on the accompanying table; It's recommended. Mr. Nurettin Canikli is the first speaker in favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0011par0434	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I made a commitment in favor of our group proposal. Now, dear friends, with our group proposal, about this week's agenda and next week's Parliament agenda, especially the work schedule, is being planned, is being targeted. This week, we predict that these works will be carried out until the talks of the current legislation take place, and that this is how our work this week will be completed -- either today or hopefully, at the latest -- about the special talks that happened with all the groups that we agreed on yesterday. We agreed on a special session of events at the opening of the Assembly at the opening of the Assembly together with the Council Council's decision yesterday. But our government, our State Department, has a request to inform us at the point where the talks are being carried out, the work is going through a delicate period, and depending on that, if possible, these talks will be held later today or later tomorrow, and we have shared them with our groups, as well as our groups. On this occasion, I thank all of our groups, our political party groups, and I thank the CHP, MPP and HDP groups for their positive approach. In addition, I would like to extend our thanks to the CHP Group in this delicate environment, in order to draw up the motions to investigate our Prime Minister. I'd like to rephrase: We're going to have the talks we planned yesterday with the four political parties we planned. And hopefully today or at the latest, as I've just tried to express it -- hopefully today or tomorrow -- this is the group proposal that we're bringing to you right now -- and we're going to make it very clear to you that we're going to be able to make these talks, and we're going to express our views, our views, our opinion as groups, after our government has informed us of the events that happened there. On this occasion, the group expresss that we are in favor of our proposal, I await your support, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0012par0440	Thank you. Congressmans, our little brothers have come to visit us in the audience box. I welcome them. We're trying to give you a better future. We're happy if we can make it. Welcome back. [[Applause]] The first speaker against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0013par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. A group proposal from the Justice and Development Party... that we were actually going to meet on a different agenda today, but the developments in this matter require that this agenda be carried out at a more appropriate time. Of course, it's critical times. A period of attacks on the existence of both our sovereignty and our independence. Hands that drop the flag, powers that occupy our land, forces that mean the existence of our government. We think that these two wills are actually caused by the same focus. It's a result of the hand reaching out to our flag, and those who attack today in Mosul, those who mean the existence of our state, those who dare invade our land, are actually fed from the same focus and are the result of some policies. We will, of course, continue to convey our thoughts about them. If it's the flag that's being attacked, if it's our government's sovereignty rights, then no doubt, in this matter, we all need to be together, on the side of our nation and our state. The flag is the flag of our nation. The attack on the flag, frankly, is not a provocation, but the plan of a will intended directly to the state of the Republic of Turkey. So, this flag is the flag of all of us, the state is the state of all of us. If we're to condemn the attack on the flag, we condemn the attack on our flag, we oppose it. If there is an attack on Mosul, we condemn this attack on our government, our government's officials, the rights of sovereignty. The matter must be dealt with. In this regard, we have expressed the need for an immediate stance in Parliament, which the parties agreed on. Yesterday, we planned to meet with the Musul agenda under the signature of the group's vice presidents, but we're going through a very critical process. Of course, the developments in this critical process need to be followed closely. It has been stated that those who govern our state have initiatives and that they are going through a very delicate process, which may be more appropriate to do so at a more appropriate time. If there is such a delicate process, of course, we agreed that you would be able to make your assessments of the process later. The Foreign Minister will inform the parties about this; Mr. Nurettin Canikli made such a will when he called in the morning, and these demands were made today. As the National Movement Party, we, today, have called an emergency meeting of our mayors, officials, central boards from all over Turkey about these developing processes, in the process of reviewing Turkey's issues. The Foreign Minister's request for information on this issue does not await the issue of Mosul within this busy agenda. Thus, in the event of this meeting, it would be necessary for these talks to be carried out immediately by Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh. Mr. President of President Tuğrul will receive information from the Turkish Foreign Minister and thus express the views and opinions of the Nationalist Movement Party. The issue of Mosul, the state and the nation is very important for the National Movement Party. In order to do so, we felt it necessary to exchange views on this matter rather than to push such talks into our own agenda. In this regard, Mr. Tuğrul Turkesh will meet today as the Nationalist Action Party on Mosul -- with the will of our Mr. President -- in order that this meeting be carried out with urgency and not to be pushed further because of these scheduled meetings, but other parties will discuss this issue -- thank you -- but as political party groups -- together, we will share our views and opinions on this issue. We may have different assessments, but the flag is the flag of all of us, the state of all of us. So, when it comes to this, we all, together, of course, have to form a common attitude to maintain our values. In fact, today, the decision we made in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey yesterday was an important move in the respect of gathering with the Musul agenda and the nation's MPs to take a stand on this issue, and, frankly, the people who carried out this offensive attack were not able to be passed like that, in a way, a deterrent. I'd also like to point out that I care about the attitude that Parliament has taken in this matter. If we've had that attitude today, our drivers have been released. That's the kind of attitude that Parliament has taken, and I think it's important in that regard. Yeah, everything's on the table, and it should be on the table. If necessary, the Turkish Armed Forces, if necessary to protect our rights to sovereignty in this matter, to protect our citizens, are saying, of course, that will have to be on the table, we will, but I really want to say that the common position of political party groups on this axis in Parliament is a serious attitude towards those who carried out this attack in this process. We will most likely share here with open heart what should be done as a nationalist Action Party, as a nationalist Action Party, as a will that governs a political party axis, and if we have criticisms, we will, of course, share here. I thank you, of course, for the political parties that form this common position on this axis, but tomorrow, I hope the government will make this announcement as soon as possible, and Parliament will make an assessment of this important agenda, together with the decision it has made earlier. That's what I made a promise to do. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0014par0460	Thank you, Mr. Vural. The second speaker in favour of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is Mr. Idris Baluken. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0015par0464	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I'm going to salute you all with my regards. Let me start by saying that even though the procedure is that we're in favor of this group proposal, we don't think this group proposal is right, and we're going to talk on that axis. Let's talk about a problem with the method. Discussions and discussions on the issue since yesterday are generally formed between three political parties and presented to Peoples' Democratic Party as a decision. You have to give up this method. When you discuss these decision-making processes, it is important that you take our party's views and set a road map in line with our party's views and suggestions. Now, we've made a commitment to the Assembly General Assembly since yesterday, and we said that the first, priority agenda of this Assembly should be the developments in this Mosul and Iraq, that the government must come here immediately and inform lawmakers and political party groups and that the groups should take their recommendations, their criticisms, and that the policies set behind closed doors should be guided in this way. As the People's Democratic Party, we submitted our current motion for a general meeting of parliament yesterday with a request for an emergency meeting, and expressed that our hope was to meet this general request as soon as possible. But unfortunately, despite the time that has passed, this demand for a general meeting has not been taken into account since yesterday. The EC PARTI group's deputy presidents suggested: "Let's consider this not in a general discussion format, but in a format where the government will inform and the political party groups will express their views." We've considered this acceptable, but today we've come across a de facto situation, as this information is now postponed over different sensibilities. We don't think that's true, guys. Of course, we all care about certain sensibilities. We are prepared, of course, to present the necessary responsibility in the work that involves the release of nearly 80 citizens, whose noses are not bleeding to their families. But these studies do not prevent the House from handling this issue. Parliament can hold a closed discussion with a decision, and all of the issues discussed in this closed discussion remain under this roof as a state secret, and we think there may be some road maps of policy that we've set up in terms of opinions and suggestions that will arise from here. Now, you have to think about it from now on. We're in a crisis situation here, folks. This crisis, as in all crises, can either lead to a worse point, trigger developments that will lead to bigger problems, or by learning the necessary lessons from this crisis, this crisis can bring a new set of policies to our attention. If we can deal with the causes of the crisis bravely and face the wrongs in this foreign policy and build a political line that will give them up, we think we can get some policies out of this process that can capture the future of Turkey and other Middle Eastern peoples in a free, peaceful way. But, to be honest, how much of a confrontation we're looking at, we're not seeing a clear picture of it. Look, we're actually talking about all of the policies that created this crisis on this stand over the last year. In the last year, we've given countless talks about Al Nusra, about ISIS, about gangs connected to Al Qaeda, about the government's mistakes and policies that should be, we've submitted research proposals, we've submitted questions, but you haven't considered any of them. You thought you were doing a great deal of cunning with a great mind; you were supposed to have organized a fight against Assad, through these Al Qaeda-related organisations, and in other words, you tried to get results from these gangs as an obstacle to the Kurds' win in Rojava. We have repeatedly declared that this will not be in your way, that improvements cannot be read in this way. In this direction, you've opened the entire border line to ISIS, Al Nusra gangs. At the other end of the border, until the YPG took over, we had stated that Turkey's borders, these ISIS and Al Nusra gangs had entered Syria, where they had broken into Syria, where they had been injured, where they had come to this side again, and that they had been treated, and that they had been taken over by you in the form of an inn which they had been cured and guided back to the war zone, and as long as it was handled like this, serious tribulations would arise. Weapons assistance, captured trucks, logistical support, etcetera, there's no need to go into that. We know that all of the militants involved in the Al Qaeda-related gangs fighting in Syria are transit routes to Turkey. We know which country has the stamp on the most transit route on the passports there. Since you have not taken precautions against them, you are faced with these problems today. How do we get out of here now? We've got to get out of here in the right way. The truth is, you can't walk out of here with the politics you've followed so far. Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra, you can't find a way out of relations with ISIS gangs that you've developed indirectly or directly. Whatever negotiations you're conducting for the release of these hostages right now, whatever negotiations are being made, be rational, and do not engage in false negotiations on these relationships. You, all of us, all of us, all of our people, the basic solution model to get out of this mess, the basic solution perspective is to create a unified policy to support the people of the region, to respect the will of the peoples of the region, to support the free future of the region. Iraq's policy, Syrian policy, and Middle Eastern policy are not separate policies to consider. We think we need to take very rational positions in these moves that are in the same chessboard that are bound to concern each other. Especially with such nationalist feelings, we do what we have to do. Musul is like this, and Kerkuk is like that. The war speeches you're going to put on it will, frankly, bring a complete swamp in this crisis, and turn all the people of the region against Turkey, and bring some very important consequences and painful bills to our face. So we think it's wise to put aside options for such military options, which go with gasoline to the fire, and approach the process with a number of measures that will support the common future of Kurds, Turkmen, Süryans, Arabs, the peoples in the region. There's another contradiction, something we don't understand. This is a statement made by Hashimi, who is under Turkey's protection. We don't know how much that fits your policy. Hashimi interprets the developments there as a people's revolution, and you are politically supportive of Hashimi. We're wondering if that's how you look at it. So these massacres by ISIS gangs, if you're considering the wave of terror that they've carried out on the people there as a public revolution, that's a very dangerous development. That's what's happening in Middle Eastern politics right now, guys. Rakka is the richest oil district in Syria, and Musul and Kerkok are the richest in Iraq. We're dealing with a political move that's trying to control this place. I'm saying that we should all focus on rational solutions together. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0016par0478	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. The second speaker against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal is Mr. Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0017par0482	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. About 10:00 p.m. last night, there was a joint will in the House. We were with the members of the group, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, and we said, "Let's stop the talks of Bill 592, let's have a general meeting tomorrow, let the government know about this. The groups would talk for ten minutes, and we even signed it 20 minutes after they talked about it, and we closed it like this last night. Of course it's 2:00. By the time the Assembly opened at 00, the government would come and give information, and the groups would speak for 20 minutes. On notice that the State Department is sensitive about the matter, Mr. Foreign Minister was told to visit the presidents, to inform them of it, and we would discuss it in Parliament. But on the Ministry's warnings, we'll discuss this as soon as tomorrow. That's the way we agreed to do it. I mean, we'll see about that. Maybe I'll see you later tonight, or I'll see you tomorrow at the latest, anyway. There's no way a cancellation is going to close.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0018par0486	There's no such thing as a suggestion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0017par0487	My dear friends, here, of course, there are a lot of uncertainties to be said, but now that we have 80 people... so the ISID has taken drivers captive, released them, this time they've taken local powers. Of course we want to say a lot. So it's not enough for Mr. Secretary of State to inform the presidents, Mr. Secretary, that he should come here and give information to Parliament as well. At that meeting, tonight or tomorrow, the Minister must come here and inform us. So we want to know the details. How's that? So they let them go, then local forces take them prisoner, there, holding them captive. I mean, do they want ransom, do they want extortion, or what? What kind of country have we become? We need to question these.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0019par0488	Do you believe that?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0020par0489	Mr. Muharrem, I just got off the phone with them.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0017par0490	We have questions to ask. If we're silent for now, it's because we're not to harm our people, our consulate, our officers, our drivers, our flag, our homeland, so that the government can work in a sense. Otherwise, we can clearly see who was being treated at Hatay State Hospital, what the truck drivers said in court, what the 28th Article of the MIT Law, which was adopted on April 17, 2014, was placed here for. So this is the 28th article for today's situation. We all know that. We all know who's being helped by trucks, who's being helped by the mayors' meetings, even though it's being delivered in person. Let's just say, "Well, let's do it with Diploma," and we all know why we're going on with the mayors' meeting, so it's a slip-up, it's a mistake. We've got words to say, words to burn in the fire, a couple to say in our stomachs, a lot to say, but we're putting them off for now. Today or tomorrow, when these come, we'll talk about where the wrong policies have led the country. Our problem is that the people of our country come out of this crisis without a nosebleed. So, as the main opposition party, we're trying to make the most possible contribution, so there's going to be a general discussion tomorrow about the Prime Minister, there's a parliamentary investigation, we've withdrawn the gene for tomorrow, and we've withdrawn the investigation. We didn't really need to, but since that's your request, Mr. President says, "Okay, let's do it if they have any such demands." Actually, he had a month. I mean, you showed unnecessary sensitivity, but we did it anyway. Our goal is to get the country out of this without bleeding its nose. I don't want to go too far, but if I do, I'll have to get into it. Our friend Osman Korutturk will say what we have to say, and I will. So we're going to talk about the people you feed on, the people you help, the people you treat, the trucks that someday bring trouble to the country, probably by nightfall. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0021par0496	Thank you, Mr. Slim. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0017par0498	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit01spe0021par0499	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who don't... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, given under Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Turkish Penal Code, which is ranked in the 3rd place, with the draft of the Law on Changes in Some Laws, and the Law Proposals on Similar Property, and the Women's Equality Commission and the Justice Commission Reports. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Yesterday's merger remained in the motion of Article 61, which was part of the third part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to read and process the second motion on Article 61. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 61 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5237 of Turkish Penal Code 105. Predicted to add to Article 2. In the final chapter of the joke, the sentence cannot be less than a year. We propose and propose that the number of ▪1 is changed to.2. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Muğla Uğur Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0022par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0028	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0023par0029	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0024par0030	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0031	I'm reading the reason: Although the bill has increased sentence on all counts of sexual harassment, 29,06,2005 dates and 2. The amount of punishment in the last sentence of his joke could not have been less than one year, with no change in its meaning, protected without increase, is in line with the purpose of the bill, and is intended to increase the minimum limit, such as any other clause. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 62: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "roadway" to be added after the statement of the 592th amendment in Article 5 of Article 62. Pervin Buldan Adil Zozani Halil Aksoy Demir Çelik Erol Dora Kemal Aktaş Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 62 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237 is 142. Article 5 added to the item. We propose and propose that the last sentence of the joke, "the sentence will be doubled from half to twice as much" in the entire "half to triple." Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Tuğul Köse Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0025par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0052	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0026par0053	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0027par0054	Motive...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0055	We're reading the motive: This situation, which resulted in the failure of public service in communication, energy, railway and air transport, has been extremely important, and has been offered to ensure that there are major losses in crime and punishment, which can take months to compensate for the theft of electricity, telephone and even water pipe lines in many parts of our country, especially in rural areas. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of "roadway" to be added after the statement of the 592th amendment in Article 5 of Article 62. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0028par0064	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0065	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0029par0066	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0021par0067	Iron Steel will speak on the motion, Mr. Muk MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0030par0070	Mr. President, I'd like to share my thoughts on Article 62, with respect and love for myself and my party. And yesterday, as I was sharing my general opinion, I wanted to express that as the country's most fundamental problem, beyond a fair, egalitarian, liberal society understanding and thinking, we mistook the approaches of a new focus of power based on hierarchy, hegemonic power, to expose the sovereignty of a new focus of power. The product of this is that it is necessary to address the crime and punishment dilemma in Turkey, where both the penal code and the CMC have been redone over and over again, to make a qualified judicial system, a qualified legal system, fit and adaptable to universal law, but we avoid it. We are not content with what we avoid, we are unable to escape the habit of subjugating society by restricting freedoms, suppressing, suppressing, restricting, and deterrent approach to freedoms. See, even the Penal Code itself is capable of stealing all our freedoms, while this society has been oppressed and oppressed by the Anti-Terror Law, the Law on the State of Emergency, or so on. Right now, the Anti-Terror Law does not read about freedom of opinion and thought. Tens of thousands of people who have expressed an opinion, expressed their opinion, tried to carry out their organizational activity in accordance with his opinion and opinion are imprisoned, imprisoned, wanted to surrender their political will. Hundreds of thousands of people are now in prisons with tens of thousands of political prisoners. We lose prisons when they become perceived as just four walls. We also have to turn it into places where society meets cultural, political, moral values. But there are now about 500 sick prisoners trapped in four walls in prisons; from 500 sick prisoners, close to 200 are far from providing for human needs alone, in need of someone else's care. He expressed his opinion, expressed his opinion, yet his punishment was not confirmed, but was not denied 200 people's freedoms, although the criminal trial continued, but his future was also destroyed, stolen. This individual, physiological, and biological need-fulfilling person is unfortunately still suffering from arbitrary, self-concerned doubts and doubts. What Turkey must do, therefore, is to know 76 million people, one by one, one by one; to see everyone equal, free citizens as equals. Instead of Kurdish, where enemy law is enforced, instead of Alevi, we want to live as free citizens, equal citizens in a country with a free and equitable constitution that respects the democratic rights and law of everyone, rather than a travel activist of enemy law. See, if Turkey had considered that we've been saying this for ten years, considering that if we'd made an equitable, liberal constitution of five generals and we couldn't change it, Turkey would have won, the peoples of Turkey living in peace with Kurds, the people of Turkey would have won. If we had allowed the people of Turkey to live together in peace and freedom, we would not have had to attack ISIS, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, but we would not only have the rights of the people we see as free and equal citizens, but we would also be able to make our brothers in non-war, peace and peaceful environments. The people and the faith are not enemies, but the people and the faith are brothers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This brotherhood must be motivated by universal law, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0078	Thank you, Mr. Steel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 63 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The Turkish Penal Code No. 5237 is 143, which is envisioned to be replaced with a clause. We propose and provide that the "half of" clause in the article be changed to "one layer." Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Tuğul Köse Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0032par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0092	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0033par0093	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0094	I'm reading the reason: In crime and punishment, proportionality is intended. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in Article 64 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 64 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. 149 of Turkish Penal Code 5237, envisioned to be replaced with Article 5237. Article 1 of the article. We provide and propose that the joke (d) be changed to the "or" or "or" or "or" of the context. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Muğla Uğur Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0034par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0107	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0035par0108	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0109	I'm reading the reason: While there is a "or" context in the same joke, it is offered to include the "or" connector in order to eliminate concern that it will cause confusion by using different meanings in the implementations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 65, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second amendment to Article 152 of Article 537 of the Law, which is held in the framework of Article 65 of the Turkish Penal Code 592, and the amendment to some Laws. Ali Riza Özturk Ayşe Nedret Akova Aykan Erdemir The crime is directed against the person or persons who are being targeted by the hatred of their property. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 ranks are 65 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Scholar Light Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0036par0131	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0132	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0037par0133	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0134	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0038par0135	Münir Kutluata, Congresswoman of Sakarya.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0031par0136	Mr. Münir Kutluata of Sakarya will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0039par0139	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the grounds of Article 65 of the Law Against Turkey's Criminal Law and Some Laws. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces stunning events inside and outside. In that respect, I would rather be here than following up on the government's agenda and reviewing the matter than contacting the current events at the rate my deadline has given me. Dear MPs, 80 Turkish citizens have been kidnapped, including our Consul in Mosul, Iraq, and the Turkish Consulate has been raided. I would like to express that we are ready to support whatever measures the government has to take, whatever attempts it has to make to attack our lands, and that we wish that this tribulation would be resolved immediately. We are prepared to provide support as the National Movement Party, without the slightest consideration of political discrimination that Turkey has to do about protecting the rights of the Turks there, helping other groups that are waiting for our help -- anything that Turkey can do to act in its own interests and in accordance with its reputation. However, we have always said that foreign policy has brought Turkey's reputation to its ruin. As a result of these policies, Turkey is not able to protect the reputation of the state or the nation, neither inside nor outside. Look, let's stop dreaming, be realistic, understand the greatness of Turkey, reject the history of the Turkish nation, reject the language, reject its existence. On April 26, 2012, Foreign Minister Davutoglu of the ruling said, "Look at this platform, what the Assembly has said: We will then manage the wave of major change in the Middle East, and we will continue to lead this wave of change." Today, in Middle Eastern communities, Turkey is seen not only as a friendly and brotherly country, but as a leading country in a new idea, a new regional order, with the power to determine the future. Look, in Iraq, in Mosul, no other country's consulate has been broken into, no other country's consuls and citizens have been kidnapped, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who organized the Middle East, has been kidnapped. He says, Mr. Secretary of State, that we will continue to be the conscience of humanity and the people of the region, and we will continue to protect our national interests because there is a new Middle East claim in our mind, just as there is a new Turkey claim. We pray that Allah protects Turkey as we pray that he protects the Middle East, and the situation of the Middle East is obvious. (Dear MPs, I tell Mr. Foreign Minister, we will continue to be the conscience of both mankind and the people of the region. Please stop being the black sheep of humanity and Turkey. Look, it's going on, I understand your concerns because you represent a different policy, you prefer the understanding of Baas politics. Dear lawmakers, Turkey faces a number of real paintings that are being shot in the face of the government, which are being raided outside of its consulates, lowered its flag inside; the abduction of its people outside; the abduction of its people; the abduction of its people. If he pulls himself together right now... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're ready to help. Otherwise, it has been discovered that this government is suffering Turkey every day, that it is bankrupt. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0151	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second amendment to Article 152 of Article 537 of the Law, which is held in the framework of Article 65 of the Turkish Penal Code 592, and the amendment to some Laws. Free Private (Manisa) and friends The crime is directed against the person or persons who are being targeted by the hatred of their property. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0041par0159	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0160	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0042par0161	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0162	I'm reading the reason: A person who is targeted by a hater's mover or mover's property may be partially or entirely destroyed, destroyed, broken, unusable, or contaminated, committed the quality of the crime. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion in Article 66, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 66 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. 188 of Turkish Penal Code 5237, envisioned to be replaced with Article 5237. Article 3. We propose that no less than ten years, or less than 20 years, or more, be changed. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0043par0175	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0176	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0044par0177	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0178	I'm reading the reason: Offered to ensure balance in crime and punishment. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in the 67th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of law enforcement and law enforcement to be added after the declaration of the third person mentioned in Article 67 of the current law bill 592. Justice Zozani Halil Aksoy Demir Çelik Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the draft of the Law on Change in Some Laws 67. The Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237 is 190, which is envisioned to be replaced with Article 5237. We offer and propose that ten years and fifteen years will be changed into ten. Jesus Gök Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Gürkut Acar The 67th draft of the 592th row bill. We offer and propose that the article be changed from ▪ five to ten years to fifteen years. Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim İlm Reşat Right Muharrem Varlı Sinan Oğan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0045par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0206	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0046par0207	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0040par0208	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0047par0211	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the 67th amendment to Law Bill 592, which is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, a conclusion that has emerged in these draft draft talks, unfortunately, shows once again that the ruling party is not open to any opinion other than what it knows, no matter how accurate the suggestions from the opposition are. Even though our motions are capable of responding to society's needs, unfortunately, the understanding of not being outside of fiction shows itself again. We have repeatedly proposed a lot of positive approaches to the solution to the country's problems here, and the ruling party's valued deputies and executives have blocked their ears, and today's latest situation is upsetting all of us. Before the flag crisis was resolved, Turkey faced a new crisis, and the Turkish Consulate in Mosul was occupied by one of the terrorist organisations that the ruling party has been feeding and raising for years, and the end of Turkish citizens is unfortunately uncertain at this time. Again, another example of many positive proposals in this country is that we have never seen any positive approaches to this country, and that is the coming social point, following the privatisation of Seyitömer Polydets in my constituency region today and the privatisation of the Termic Plant. Over and over again, we have warned that this privatisation method is wrong. It means the country's resources are being pursued by someone. This will bring many sacrifices tomorrow. We said, "No one will open their ears and listen to us. What are they saying?" But today a group of 20 people were fired from work at Seyitömer Polydets, after which, despite their promises, they will not be taken out, nor will they be harmed. Even though it was said, 18 more workers were terminated two days ago. Now, for the past two days, thousands of workers working at Seyitömer are demanding the return of their fellow workers to work, and they are in the sit-in. One day, you can print for two days, but when this problem isn't solved, when there's a new social event tomorrow, it'll be too late. Once again, I warn the government authorities: Stop the massacre of workers at the Seyitömer Termic Plant of Kütahya. Since the new owners of the pre-election business are only intended for the election, the bill is paid by the workers today because the government has failed to deliver the promises. The business has a demand: we want to provide workers with jobs in order to extract coal from the open stove, even though it is not included in the contract provisions, but give us this area. When it comes to selling the coals out of here, it's probably just the voting account before the election, so don't worry. It's the main reason why they came to this point today. In the tender process, no one can later demand a right that is not included in the tender agreement, nor is it possible for any minister or member of parliament to make a promise. As a matter of fact, the victims show that it's not possible. I hereby ask the esteemed ruling party MPs to vote on what the proposals from opposition parties are intended and which is right and which is wrong. This motion, again, is aimed at increasing the penalties for drug use, in accordance with the expectations of society. I hope you won't do this wrong this time, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0048par0218	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0049par0222	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit02spe0048par0223	We've got a roll call. Let's do it. Mr. Tütük, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Ayaydun, Mr. Captain, Mr. Güler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Batum, Mr. Batum, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Earth, Mr. Gök, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Elekter, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Tarhan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0048par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of Kütahya MP Alim Izim and his friends' motion was voted on Article 67 of the Law Bill 592. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Charter for Changes in Some Laws 67. The Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237 is 190, which is envisioned to be replaced with Article 5237. We offer and propose that ten years and fifteen years will be changed into ten. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0050par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0048par0021	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0051par0022	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0048par0023	You don't agree... Antalya MP Gürkut Acar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0052par0027	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have been promised a motion for Turkish Penal Code 592 and amendments to certain Laws in Article 67 of the Law Bill. I salute your high council. According to this, the first and second jokes of Law Number 5237 have been changed from five to ten years in the form of five. This sentence is a provision for those who provide material, hardware, and private space to facilitate use of drugs and stimulants. As the Republican People's Party, we demand that it be increased from five to fifteen years with our motion. The use of drugs is becoming increasingly common with horrific damage to society. Therefore, the increase brought in is correct, and we demand that it be increased even further. My dear friends, for a long time Turkey has been suffering from the corrosion of the basic qualities of the Republic of Turkey, the shaking of the principles of its constitutional order, the abandonment of the fundamental foreign policy foundations of Turkey. Justice and Development is leading Turkey into a abyss, not only in domestic policy, but also in foreign policy. We always say: Working in constitutional principles in the basic order of the Republic of Turkey, instead of looking for solutions to problems, it is impossible that if you enter different relationships with different ties and understandings, this will not make heavy bills to Turkey. We always say: "Stay within the law; do not corrode secularism, democracy." But you didn't listen. You've tolerated conspiracies, illegal wiretaps for your own internal political accounts. You've caused the victims of thousands of people. My dear friends, you're screaming for a parallel, called a conspiracy. If you go outside the law, this boomerang will come and shoot you one day. As a matter of fact, that's the case with foreign policy. It is the first time in our 90-year-old Republic history that ISIS militants, Turkish personnel and consuls at our consulate in Mosul, who have set out to establish a religious state, have violated our sovereignty rights and raided the building, which is considered Turkish territory. In the Middle East, these incidents with the support of US-backed anti- secular terrorist organizations have become a threat to the territorial integrity of Turkey. The Justice and Development Party has been brought to power in Turkey under the support of the United States to purge the secular, democratic republic. In accordance with the policies of the United States of America in the Middle East, you have reduced the Republic of Turkey to a state that provides weapons, ammunition, and all sorts of logistical support to the Free Syrian Army, in other words, aiding anti- secularism, which threatens Syrian territorial integrity. As such, ISIS, where the Free Syrian Army is at war, has set Turkey as its enemy. The Justice and Development Party's adventurous, empirical, submissive policies have reduced Turkey to a state that eliminates the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries. There is a certain fact that all strategists have stated, my dear friends, that if the territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria breaks down, so will Turkey's territorial integrity. The protection of Turks in Turkey's Turkmen region, which ISIS occupied in Iraq, is also very effective in protecting and maintaining interests in the Middle East, as well as in favour of balances in the Middle East. Turkey's agreement on oil in cooperation with the regional Kurdish administration despite objections from the Iraqi Central Government is a clear violation of international law. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan rules Turkey illegally, as well as internationally illegal. The end of this journey is disastrous. Turkey must intervene immediately to protect its own interests, but it must not eat the carrot that the United States has extended to us. In particular, taking the Musul and Kerkuk region should not bring Turkey into the swamp in the Middle East with a carrot supposedly solving the oil problem. After eight years of fighting Iraq and Iran and selling billions of dollars in weapons to both sides, the imperialist countries ended the war without calling it a winner. My dear friends, the plan of the United States of America is to pierce Lausanne, impregnate him, then deliver him, as an excuse to raise Turkey first. This plan has already been prepared and is known. We ask the Justice and Development Authority not to embark on this quest to disrupt Turkey's territorial integrity. The actions of the Lausanne Agreement, which would mean cashing it with our own hands, are capable of endangering Turkey's existence as a state. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0053par0038	Thank you, Mr. Acar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of law enforcement and law enforcement to be added after the declaration of the third person mentioned in Article 67 of the current law bill 592. Iron Steel and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0054par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0053par0046	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0055par0047	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0053par0048	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0056par0051	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 67th Amendment to the Turkish Penal Code 592 rows and to some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. The 67th article of the bill is one of the things that may be mistakenly arranged in the form of an increase in punishment for preventing crime. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to continue my speech regarding arrangements for child abuse in the bill. We have to consider all kinds of acts that have been actively committed against children and have damaged their physical, emotional, mental, and social development. Child exploitation is shaped from open and rude exploitation to thin, indirect, and veiled exploitation. There are forms of abuse that can be extended in the form of the child being kicked out of the nest, being left out of school, being forced to work, being pushed into begging and prostitution, being sexually assaulted, growing up with beatings and torture, being crippled. The forms of abuse against children can also be added, such as direct or indirect criminalization of children, addiction to drugs, being forced to hold grudges, and getting girls married at an early age. Dear lawmakers, as a whole, the conditions of child abuse and neglect are defined by society, institutions and individuals as conditions of child abuse and neglect, such as depriving children of equal rights and freedoms and interfering with their top level of development. In that sense, the neglect of the child is equally important as the behavior of abuse. Neglecting a child can mean pushing it into abuse conditions. Mr. President, it is imperative that, given the harmful effects of child abuse and the UN Conventions on Children's Rights, the start of educational campaigns that will create a wide range of sensitivity in society in order to protect and improve children. In order to ensure changes in understanding and attitudes of teachers, parents and children, various practices must be carried out, leading to the creation of a peaceful world view that encourages positive disciplines, the approach needed for the healthy future. Precious lawmakers are focused on intervention and support of the child who is often subjected to abuse in Turkey, given the nature of the work carried out after the abuses in Turkey. However, the rehabilitation of the abuser is essential and necessary for preventing violence. Effective techniques that can improve the mental health of both parties must be used. It is necessary for employees of any institution or institution, such as health, to increase the sensitivity of local governments, NGOs and media in this regard, to take concrete steps to resolve the problem through scientific data and implementing the established steps, to prevent the growth of the size of the problem. Dear lawmakers, according to the 2012 criminal record statistics, 34,000 appeals have been made to the state prosecutors for sexual abuse against children, and 17500 cases have been filed in criminal courts in the same year. In addition, statistics say that 35 per cent of children who are victims of sexual abuse are under 11 years of age, 21 per cent are male and 14 per cent female. In addition to identifying the legal extent of child abuse, the prevention of this issue is of great importance. It is clear that the problem cannot be avoided without handling this dimension by increasing purely criminal action. In addition to the opportunities of law to resolve this problem, disciplines such as psychology, sociology, pedagogy, philosophy should also be supported, and the data, warning and suggestions of this multidisciplinary study should be located in the state's political tool. It should not be forgotten that this problem is not only a question of children but also a problem of the community itself. I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0057par0061	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 68, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the 592-line bill shall be removed from the text of the substance, and replaced in the form of its declaration, in case it is found in Article 3 of Article 68. Halil Aksoy Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Iron Steel Selma River Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 68 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237, envisioned to be replaced with Article 191. In the new text of the article, the article is written in the title of the article, either in the article, or in the title of the article, or in the article, 191. Article 1. In his joke, he was also quoted as saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm We offer and offer to replace the terms of the phrases of the joke with the descriptions of the phrases. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 68th Amendment bill of 592 rows. Article 8. To encourage the use of drugs in the joke, we propose and supply the addition of the bell. Mesut Dedeoğlu Muharrem Varlı Cemalettin Simsek Sinan Oğan Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0058par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0057par0085	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0059par0086	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0057par0087	Mr. Reşat will speak correctly on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0060par0089	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 668 of Section 3 of Bill 592. I salute the High Council. Unfortunately, the fundamental law, which has not been changed in the ruling of the Justice and Development Party for the last ten years, has not been changed. Many of the laws have been changed, and again, the bag has been brought back into the law. It's also a bag of criminal laws that we're interviewing today for the fact that it contains about a lot of substances. Honourable lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party ruling the country alone from 2002. The great Turkish nation has given power to this political party in its own power, to resolve many of its problems and bring it into the light of the country. However, it appears that many of these have not been fulfilled. Look, we're going to fight poverty. We're going to fight corruption. But besides, the most important issue is the errors in Turkish foreign policy. We now see the most obvious examples of the wrongs in foreign policy in our country, here it is, as of yesterday in Iraq, in Musul, in Kerkuk, in Kerkuk, in the operations and activities of ISIS in Tuzhurmatu. ISIS terrorist organization has attacked Mosul. With him, he attacks Kerkuk, and attacks Tuzhurmatu. So it's an attack on cities where Turks have lived intensively. Of course, when we see this, I'd like to say that we have to consider together the reasons for the fall of the government in 2002 and the destruction of that coalition government. See, in 2002, at that time, the United States and its coalition partners were working very hard to intervene, especially in Iraq. Our then Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Ecevit and our president, Dr. State Gardenian, expressed that interference here would cause great instability and that there could be many problems with it. Honourable MPs, it has become clear how justified this view is. So, early elections, work on the collapse of the government, and then the Justice and Development Party came to power on its own. But when we look at the painting at the time, here's a Turkey that's a leader in its territory, like Egypt, which is the leader in the Middle East, or Syria, or Jordan, Iraq, where order and domination are in place. But what happened afterwards? False policies in the outside affairs of the Justice and Development Party support complete instability in those areas, and we are now facing an attack by the ISIS terrorist organization. We want everyone here to put their hands on their conscience and take a very good look at things. Here the Turks are under intense pressure. Tuzhurmatou is a Turkish town and Mosul is a Turkish city. Kerkok is a place where Turks lived, even before Anatolia. I think the attacks here should be on everyone's heart, everyone's heart, and with it, any support should be given at the point of fighting to save our people as soon as possible. However, as far as we can see, we don't know much about what's being done in this direction, but hopefully -- I'm guessing there'll be significant developments tomorrow, and we'll be able to save all the employees at our consulate in Mosul, and save the Turkish truck drivers. In fact, we see that many Turkish citizens are in this danger, which is not in the media right now, and they're in a great deal of trouble, so hopefully, people will be comfortable there, along with the decisions that Turkish foreign affairs policy or the government has made. I think the Turkish state would have put its weight on the line with it. Respected lawmakers are trying to bring some heavy lifting on this clause, of course, related to drug crimes. In the coming period, addiction is both a major problem of the Turkish state, and it is leading to the most important problems of all the world states outside our country. The substance abuse is increasing day by day. A very important research commission has been established in the 23rd term, and although the research commission has done some very important work, none of the proposals in the results department have been raised, unfortunately, but as of now. Even though the law is included in our proposals, even though our name is inscribed, when you look at the proposal of the law, we see that the meaning of the law offer, which is what we've shown, is very few of the issues that need to be dealt with. And I think that's not enough, but at least I think it's a big success that he was brought in with this law. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0061par0100	Thank you, Mr. Right. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 68 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The Turkish Penal Code of Number 5237, envisioned to be replaced with Article 191. In the new text of the article, the article is written in the title of the article, either in the article, or in the title of the article, or in the article, 191. Article 1. In his joke, he was also quoted as saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm We offer and offer to replace the terms of the phrases of the joke with the descriptions of the phrases. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0062par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0061par0108	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0063par0109	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0061par0110	Mr. Jesus Gök will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0113	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Friends, politics isn't permanent, many of you will return to work tomorrow. I especially want to address fellow lawyers. The next four items are extremely important. Tomorrow, when you return to civilian life, I'd like to carry out the warning mission so as not to be embarrassed. Frame 69, TCK 277, charge of attempting to influence the judge, the judge, the witness. You're here to make it clear that it's not a crime to influence the prosecutor, the witness, the expert witness in an investigation phase. Look, it's not our crime in our criminal system, it's all over the world, and the punishment is two to four years in prison. The idea increases in half the amount of drinking, so it goes from three to six years. You're making a terrible, terrible mistake by taking this crime out of your hands right now. Because, of course, there's gonna be a comeback, but in the meantime, everyone, the prosecutor, the judge, the judge, will be after you. It's a once-in-a-lifetime violation of justice, bribery, oppression, threats. Please come back from this, there's one more substance, come back. Friends, two: Frame 70, the personal responsibility of judges and prosecutors. Guys, I'm warning you. Look, from 1964 to this side of Turkey, judges and prosecutors have the right to file a lawsuit against their heavy defects and deliberate actions. That's exactly what was taken into the Criminal Code in 2004, but you, Mr. Mehmet Haberal, when you won the case in 2011, were suddenly removed for deficiencies and intent, and no one can sue the judge and the prosecutor. You said that with 93/A, you made the change in 2802. There have been December 17th and 25th events, and this time he'll sue in full. You said. Now, with the stuff you've brought to CMK, you're disrupting the entire system, no case can be filed. You say, "Don't do it." The truth is, the judge and the prosecutor have been able to sue in their gross flaws and intents. Not in every case, because he can't decide against the judge and the prosecutor if you're suing him in every case. You have to separate the heavy defects and the intent. It's true to make the government responsible. Fix this. Look, guys, you dropped the original trading courts to one judge, you understood the mistake, you made it a board again two days ago. Fix these. Guys, frame 71. Look, you're dismissing the court of justice, don't. This country has a tri-judgment system in the penal system. You remove the court of peace, you move to a binary system, the same one in 74, and the same one in 74, against the prosecution's non-obligatory verdicts, you remove the criminal court of appeals, you bring in the criminal courts, you bring in the judicial justices. Guys, come on. The objection is a law. Don't destroy this law. You think that when you remove the judicial courts of peace, you will rule judgment when you make them object to confiscation, seizure, search, arrest, arrest; it's wrong; it's wrong. In Turkey, you may think you can direct the objection to seizure, search, arrest, arrest with 50 magistrates, but you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. Keep the appeal to the High Criminal Court again, and let him go to the nearest criminal court committee, at least this is what we call a prosecution; don't make that mistake. Because it's hard to come back, but you'll have to. Guys, look, you've always brought mistakes... elections to the Constitution 159, HSYK. Friends, I see myself as both a political officer and a judicial officer. Mr. Secretary, right now, the courts are lobbying for the HSYK elections. The judge prosecutors have reserved tables at dinner. Seven judicial courts, three administrative courts for members of the HSYK, friends, they don't talk, judge prosecutors. Everyone, look, left as the rightist-leftist, left as the AKP/li, left as the parishioner, left as the archipelago, left among the archipelagoists, left in the left-wingers, ethnically separated, religiously separated judges. So the election that was brought in in 159 was not true. Maybe he could've collected a vote, it was a mistake, the Constitutional Court canceled it. But look, the courts are divided. You have to go back to that mistake, the Constitution must be collected. Courthouses are now a political place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do you take this to the House or something else... you have to figure it out.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0065par0121	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0122	I'm finishing. Because the trial goes away in the courts. Mr. Secretary, go to a courthouse, go to a courthouse between meals.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0066par0125	I'll go with you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0126	Look, the one you went to during lunch...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0127	Mr. Sky, thank you. You'll see the Minister later on.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0129	I'm finishing, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0130	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0131	I'm not finished, sir. Mr. President, I beg you. During lunch break, friends, judges are divided into groups of tables. That's the end of the trial.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0133	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0064par0134	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0136	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the 592-line bill shall be removed from the text of the substance, and replaced in the form of its declaration, in case it is found in Article 3 of Article 68. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0068par0142	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0143	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0069par0144	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0067par0145	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0070par0148	All right, guys, we're looking for justice. The Ankara High Criminal Court has launched an investigation into Musul (Musul) for the consulate, just so you know. Well, didn't we say that over and over again with research proposals? Haven't we spoken here many times? We've brought this here so many times, why do you always refuse? We've requested a general meeting. What sensitivity are you talking about for a general meeting, for God's sake? If you're very sensitive, if the Minister is going to provide sensitive information, it can also be closed session, but no, there's no information. Let's tell you what happened in Mosul, that the map of the seizure of our driver's shop began in Syria, which began in Syria. Look, take a good look at this sentence. If it's not true, let the Minister say it's a lie. This is the sign of Our revelation, if what you say is true. Look, what's he saying? It's confidential. Home Office, Hatay Governorate. It was dated March 15, 2013. I'm reading it exactly. Look at the important points, the concepts: It is important that the Mujahidins of Chechen and Tunisian Mujahidins, who were brought from various countries under the control of our National Intelligence Agency, and fought against the PKK extension, are protected by the security and secrecy of intelligence officers within the borders of the province. In this context, Hatay is a strategic province in transitioning Mujahideen from the borders of our country to Syria. The transfer of logistical support to Islamic groups, their education and treatment of the wounded, and the passage of the mujahideen will mainly be done from here. Our National Intelligence Agency and the relevant authorities have been tasked with this, and Hatay will coordinate with our governorate. In the great secrecy of the mujahideen sent to your province by various civil institutions by land and airways, it has been deemed appropriate for them to reside in the guesthouses of Religious Affairs -- and in the public guesthouses established by the NGOs and the NGOs. To be meticulously followed by the general... That's the order for El Nusra from your Ministry to the governor's office. So, guys, why don't you tell me about El Nusra, who you just listed as a terrorist group? One of you has to come out here and tell it, it's the government. Can you tell me if your logistic support for sending Kurds to fight against the Kurds, in Afrin, in Cizir, in Kamişlı, in constant attacks, massacres, slaughtering children, as a government, as a government, and also as a government, against the PYD, against the Kurdish people? Can you tell me now, for God's sake? Do you want to be with the Kurdish people for a thousand years in the future in our country's future, in Syria, in Iraq, in Kurdistan, in Rojava, and in the future in the future, or with terrorist organizations, or with you? But know this: Kurdish people have well known those who attacked and supported them in the face of these massacres. Kerkuk is now in the hands of all Kurdish forces, and all government forces have been withdrawn from there, and Kurds are protecting the Turkmen region. This shame is waiting for someone to answer politically, diplomaticly, as a trial, as a justice. I'll see when you bring in the general meeting, and we'll talk. We will speak in this House, what the public will know, the flags drawn to your consulate. You'll read it, you'll see where it's been brought, you'll see it all.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0071par0156	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0072par0158	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit03spe0071par0159	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0071par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends on the 68th Article of Law Bill 592 was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions in Article 69: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of Article 592 in Article 69, which will be issued from six months to two years if the sentence does not exceed its degree of immunity. Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Iron Steel Selma Irmak Kemal Aktaş Erol Dora Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 69 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5237 of the Turkish Penal Code 277. The framework is 69 because the amendment to the amendment is contrary to the Constitution. We propose and propose that the substance be fully removed from the draft text and that other substances be identified accordingly. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0073par0023	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0071par0024	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0074par0025	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0071par0026	Mr. Turgut Dibek will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0075par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, in this bill, I mentioned when I was talking about chapter one, there are three or four clauses. I said, "These three four articles are special materials that have nothing to do with this bill." I think it's one of the most important. So this motion that we've made... I've just delivered it to the Minister, and I said, please join this motion. And I said, let's take this arrangement out. In this Article 277, it would be such a problem for us, dear friends, to rule out the investigation of the Turkish Penal Code on Article 277. For once, it's against the Constitution, so I'll mention it, but now, to better understand my words, I'd like to read one item first. After that, I think you'll understand me, or the citizens who follow us will. Look, what's Article 277? Our penal code? In an investigation that is being carried out or in order to prevent the truth from being revealed or to create an injustice, one of the parties, suspect or defendant, or the victim, will be sentenced to up to four years in prison to make a decision or establish a procedure or to make a statement against the judge, the expert, or the witness, or the witness. Now, the duty of justice... the duty of judgment, dear friends, is not just the process of prosecution. Now, we've been trying to talk to our friends, and the investigation is already in the jurisdiction. Who's in the investigation? There's the prosecutor, there's the witness, there's the judge at the same stage, there's the judge in preparation, there's the judge in the investigation phase. We're doing something, or you're doing something that you're attempting to do, which in the course of the investigation into this arrangement, you're taking these people's actions against them out of criminal activity. Look, I've come from practice, I've come from the organization, the mayor and the mayor of the county, I've been in charge of these duties for a long time, I've done it. You know what? Those prosecutors, judges, their rooms are filled with politicians. Phones are so easy to pick up from now on, from now on. Now, there's no way to go about it that simple. We all know what it's really about. I mean, after these recent events, I think there's a report, especially from the Izmir Public Prosecutor's Office; we've shared it with the public, and so has our president. The Istanbul Police Commissioner has made similar statements to the staff or others in his court, prosecutors. These, I believe, are intended to stay out of the investigation, but if you, dear friends, rise up, continue to hold the actions in the court phase, in the process of prosecution as a crime, but in the course of the investigation, the prosecutor, the judge, the expert, if you deprive them of this security, we will make a special arrangement. Look, at the beginning of my words, there's a lot of stuff in this bill that we object to, but that's one of the most important things. It's one of the things that'll get us into trouble. Someone may have asked for an investigation of someone, you know, sir, the prosecutors' decision to shut it down, or, you know, let's leave it at that, since it's no longer a crime of action. But there are 11 judges and prosecutors in the practice. Most of them are part of the investigation. Now, I asked Mr. Secretary, and he says: "Ya, here, influence may not be too important." If there is a threat here, if there is blackmail, here it is, sir, if there are different actions, it is a crime according to other provisions. Of course it is a crime. But at some point it could be... either you made a phone call or you left, sir, and you said to the prosecutor, "Ya, we know this friend, he's a good friend." There's an investigation into this friend. Here, sir, you're following this, you've got this file. So, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be? So it's not the size of a threat now, it's not the size of blackmail. I'll make you like this, not like this. Here, Hüseyin Chief, the Chief Public Prosecutor of İzmir says: "Go at this hour, change the state's attorney, call off all decisions, stop this investigation, or you will suffer the consequences." Where will this action go? Threat or blackmail? It's a crime, not a crime. We need to get this stuff out of the draft text. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0076par0040	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0077par0042	Mr. President, I'd like a brief word from the 60th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0076par0043	Is this about the substance?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0077par0044	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0076par0045	One minute from your position.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0077par0048	Mr. President, thank you. Now, sir, the purpose of bringing this clause is to call the İzmir Public Prosecutor and Adana Public Prosecutor, who conducted the investigation on December 17th and December 25th, and Bekir Bozdağ, who resides in the Justice Department's office to these prosecutors. Go ahead, remove the prosecutor and close this investigation. It's an intervention in the form of an intervention. The prosecutors had identified the reports, they had issued a statement about it, it had been sent to the Minister of Justice. Now, the only purpose of this clause is to stop Bekir Bozdağ from being a criminal because of his interference. Now, I speak to everyone's consciences: if you bring in a clause for everyone to cover such abuses, such as this, for personal and important forgiveness, there will be no law in the Republic of Turkey, sir. I mean, I don't think that's going to happen either. That's why I think this stuff needs to come out. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0078par0052	Thank you, Mr. Young. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of the provision of Article 592 in Article 69, which will be issued from six months to two years if the sentence does not exceed its degree of immunity. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0079par0061	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0078par0062	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0080par0063	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0078par0064	Mr Kemal Aktaş will speak on the motion, Van MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0081par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a personal pledge to the General Assembly on Article 69. I salute you all. Friends, today we consider and evaluate the issues of Turkey that are fundamental, fundamental, and current, and very close to everyone. But one of the problems that I think is very basic is the problems in prisons that we've all forgotten and abandoned. While the Minister is here, I, who reached out to me yesterday, Bandirma 2 No. I'd like to read you a brief paragraph from a letter sent to me by a prisoner named Serdar Batur in Lu Type T Closed Prison. Because I mentioned it at the Human Rights Commission meeting this morning. I see it as a necessity to carry it here on the agenda of the House. I'll try to read a small paragraph: We've been in complete isolation here for seven months. We are not allowed to take advantage of any social activities, such as sports, workshops, courses, conversations, and other areas of common work, which are our legal rights. ▪ Security and procedure are facing responses, impositions, and practices. As we walk down the aisle, we try to be subject to ugly behaviors and practices, such as the violence of September 12th, the kind that I look around, the kind that I walk in one row, the way I walk in line, the way I talk, the way I talk, the way I do. When we refuse to accept them and call upon the management of the administrative system to be sensitive, we are given disciplinary punishments when we show some passive democratic responses. Our families are far away, 1,500-2 all the way. They only see us for 30 minutes when we travel a thousand kilometers to visit. Although most of the friends here are related to one another, they are neither seen nor allowed to meet. In short, as a person who has experienced such practices in Bandirma Prison, Type T prisons, such as the conditions of September 12th, in the past, Mamak, Diyarbakır, in a way that even those living in different prisons may find strange, in a way that no human honor or human dignity can accept, is currently being practiced. In response, a rotating hunger strike has been under way since 6/6/2014, and people are now in that prison, starving. Again, lastly, as someone who spent many years in prison, I received another very remarkable news yesterday. Every prisoner and prisoner who appear before you in Opium Prison on an open and closed visit is subject to taking photos and taking photographs. If you keep thinking of them as practices that are constantly, up to date, if you imagine them, psychologically, there's an additional punishment. Mr. Undersecretary was present at the Commission this morning when I said so. The Undersecretary himself said: "These are not general practices in prisons, these are impulsive and individual approaches." But I also said to the Undersecretary: As someone who has been in prisons for many years -- so I repeat, and I want to draw the bottom of this with a little bit of thick letters -- there is really no individual or impulsive behavior. Of course, people may have different feelings, different approaches, but regardless of an author, I don't think these practices have developed independently, and I want everyone and especially the Minister, especially the Minister, to bow down here immediately, in front of the Minister. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0082par0074	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0083par0076	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0082par0077	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... There's a disagreement between the clerks, so let's vote electronically. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 70, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the 'However' clause in the third joke of the 17th Article of the current law bill 592 and the addition of the declaration of 'against the State' after the declaration. Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Iron Steel Selma River Erol Dora İdris Baluken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 70 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 141. The framework, which includes jokes predicted to be added to the article, provides and proposes the removal of 70. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 70. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Mehmet Şandir Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0084par0104	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0082par0105	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0085par0106	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0082par0107	Mr. Reşat will speak correctly on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0086par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on the 70th article of the Law Bill 592 rows. I salute the High Council. In our country, there are huge increases in violence against women, crimes against children, and especially in drug-related crimes. In AKP rule, the prisons are almost full. There are approximately 150,000 prisoners in prison. Although new prisons have been built, although new methods have been delayed, unfortunately the hail cannot be reduced, and there is no place to sleep in the prisons. But we have to see that most of these inmates -- almost a quarter of them -- are lying here on drug charges, respected lawmakers. Studies have shown that people are unfortunately entering prisons for drug crime every day, losing their health, society's order has been corrupted, families, children are in great straits. Here are important tasks for all, especially the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the government and all of the sensitive people. Of course, it should be considered to be the duty of everyone, not just of a certain group or of people. At this point, as a government, all ministries, including the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, all ministries, including the Ministry of Interior, must do research on what can be done about it and bring new law proposals to address many problems with it. See, in our past period, in the 23rd term, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has established a very important research commission and has done very important work with this commission. In the coming years, we say, in the coming years, in an environment of alcohol, smoking, drugs, electronic addiction, in which there are serious problems with them, some laws have been proposed to be passed as a result of that research commission on substance abuse. This has already become a tradition in our Parliament: Research commissions, for years on everything, research commissions are set up in their proposals. After that, three months, four months of work and very important decisions are made in commissions, very important information is created, many people are rested on it, but interestingly, we sometimes put research commission reports on shelves without meeting in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Here, one of them is the research commission reports on substance abuse. The proposals were presented on nearly all of the last 150 pages of those reports. Many of our friends from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have proposed laws. So, in some parts of Law Bill 592 and other law proposals today, we've had our name mentioned, and we're dealing with a situation where our proposals are sort of discussed here, but it's interesting, that the laws we've made, the proposals or the materials we've offered -- so, for example, I've offered seven substances -- a very little part of that, which is almost in the form of law, which is not to be taken. Children are our children, people are our people, there are serious problems in our country. See, there are proposals that have to be set up for the establishment of the AMAMEM centers, as well as the removal of the staff deficit at the AMATEM centers, along with the creation of a system that treats psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, people who come there at every point, and it's interesting, but even now, psychiatrists are very few, sociologists, psychologists are few. So when a person gets it at the AMATEM center, they either have to be taken care of for a very little time or leave without treatment, whereas that shouldn't be the case, respected lawmakers. So if the staff is missing here, we have to complete those personnel. Whose duty is this? It's the government's job, but unfortunately, the government is not doing its job, and if our people are moving quickly towards substance abuse, especially the capital centers of Anatolia, in the cities, in front of schools, if it's free to sell or use drugs, then it's probably the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Ministry of Social Policy, I salute the High Assembly, saying with respect.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0087par0119	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 70 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 141. The framework, which includes jokes predicted to be added to the article, provides and proposes the removal of 70. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0088par0126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0087par0127	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0089par0128	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0087par0129	Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0090par0132	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 70 of Bill 592. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, as you know, during the Justice and Development Party government, many judicial packages have been brought to the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly for reasons such as meeting the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights decisions, preventing the violations of fair trial rights in courts, reducing the workload of justice, activating the obstruction of the judiciary, ending the enjoyment of the judiciary, the unlawfulness of the judiciary. However, none of these packages have met the great public expectations. Despite these four packages, the incidents and events are still based on the European Court of Human Rights' violations against our country. In our courts, in our judicial bodies, we still face violations of the right to a fair trial. Mr. Engin Alan, who should be sitting in the parliamentary ranks with us now, is still under arrest, unable to be released from prison. Despite the clear confessions of the army, there has been no way of retributing the victims of the elite officers of the army. I mean, it's possible to make a lot of these samples, but unfortunately, after four packages, all of these are the main problems. Well, then, what was the fifth judicial package supposed to do, precious MPs? The fifth judicial package, in fact, was supposed to bring the arrangements to address these problems before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. However, this package, unfortunately, is far from solving these problems. This problem did not come to us as a package to eliminate the injustices, the unlawfulness of our courts. On the contrary, there are such regulations in this package that are now coming to us as provisions that will further increase the joy and unlawfulness of the courts. The most obvious example of this is the 70th article that I'm talking about. Dear friends, look, the 70th article is shown to be that the lawsuits of compensation can only be filed against the state because of the personal flaws, unjust verbs or other responsibilities made by judges and Republican prosecutors, including the 141st article of the Penal Code, or criminal investigation or other charges of prosecution, and as a basis of this, only due to the violations of our Constitution and the violations of the laws of civil servants and civil servants. However, dear friends, look, the Supreme Court's General Assembly of the Supreme Court has made it very clear that this is not the case, that the Constitution's Article 129 shall not be prosecuted for its personal defamation or unjust verbs against judges. We've got Mr. Haberal here today sitting in the line of congressmen with us. This decision is the Supreme Court 4. It's actually telling us in its entirety a truth that was very clearly introduced in the Law Office, but by the decision of the General Assembly of Law. Dear friends, the General Assembly of Law says that the relationship between law and administration is not really a relationship between management and other officers because the judge, on behalf of the Turkish nation, performs these tasks independently, without orders and instructions. Thus, it is not possible to describe the relationship between a judge and the state as an officer's service relationship with a public official. Therefore, based on the Article 573" of the Law of Law, the Court of Law shall be brought to trial, despite the provisions of Article 129" of the Constitution against judges due to the damages made by the judges due to their personal shortcomings due to their intents, it shall be brought to account for the principle of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, which will not leave us in a clear way to interpret it, friends. So, in spite of the legal board's clear decision, why do we wish to maintain the joy and unlawfulness of these courts? The Justice Minister and the AKP government complaining about the parallel state wants to establish its own parallel judiciary? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By ordering judges and prosecutors to decide, by protecting them, he wants to form his own parallel judicial state?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0091par0143	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0090par0144	My dear friends, this is unacceptable in the state of law; it will pave the way for arbitrary decisions. Therefore, we propose and propose that this arrangement be removed from the draft text. With all due respect, I salute the House.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0091par0147	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the 'However' clause in the third joke of the 17th Article of the current law bill 592 and the addition of the declaration of 'against the State' after the declaration. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0092par0154	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0091par0155	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0093par0156	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0091par0157	Mr. Idris Baluken will be speaking on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0094par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. This is the key topic of the draft law on the justice system. Our friend, Mr. Kemal Aktaş, who was just speaking here, spoke with a letter that reflected the problems in the prisons. We expect Justice Department officials to take very careful notes on all these problems and take the necessary measures immediately. Dear lawmakers, the nakedest indicator of how a state approaches its own people, its own citizens, can be read from its approach to prisoners, prisoners in prisons. If you want to see the mirror of the government's approach to citizens, you need to pay attention to government practices against vulnerable people in prisons. Because all of the people there are in a vulnerable position to state mentality, state understanding, and apart from their own bodies, they never have a single argument they can use. Currently, burning problems in prisons that have long occupied Turkey's agenda continue the same way. 47 of our friends in Bandirma Prison are currently on hunger strike, on the 9th day of the hunger strike. There is also a hunger strike in Isparta Prison on its 19th day. Look, in Isparta Prison, the practice that our friend just called "Afyon Prison" is all happening there. Prisoner friends who meet lawyers or relatives are exposed by numbers given to their hands, to the tag apps you see in these American films; they are subjected to search, from top to bottom, from every point of view, to offend the dignity of humanity. More or less these problems continue to occur in all prisons. In Bandirma Prison, the second warden is approaching prisoners there with enemy law against citizens entrusted to the state. The second warden of this prison, who served in Bingol Prison, was sent here after the escape attempt of 17 prisoners and 17 prisoners, is now taking out the pain, anger, hatred of the escape, and hatred of the prisoners who were entrusted to the state there. Is that kind of understanding acceptable? We told the Ministry of Justice, "Do what you have to do with it, take this second principal from there, send him somewhere else, or warn him in the right way, and he will give up that enemy law." Likewise, these applications continue. Is that an understanding? If we can't create a mechanism to solve these problems with the Department of Justice's authority, then all the arguments we're having here remain in the air. The matter of the sick prisoners... I spoke here again the other night, a day later in Bingol Prison, the prisoner Orhan Tokuk died of a stomach bleed. The shame is enough for all of us. What we can't understand is that the ruling lawmakers who operate for this country's President, Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Deputy Prime Minister, this is the same thing as the ruling MPs who operate for the Commission for Solutions. They say it's not appropriate for humanity to find a solution, but the Department of Justice is getting funerals out of prisons because they can't find a solution. Now, we're wondering whether there's an insincere situation, whether you're not sincere, from the President to the Prime Minister to the MPs, you're not behind what you're saying, or the classic bureaucratic state structure that you can't get past is still continuing the same tradition. Is that even possible? In this regard, all the legal arrangements you say you're going to put into practice will remain in the air and will be ineffective unless you solve the current problems with the sick prisoners in prison. Come together with the legal provisions that touch the public, touch the public, affect the lives of the individual, the citizens... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say we try to figure it out, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0095par0171	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0096par0175	I want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0095par0176	Okay. We've got a roll call. Let's do it. Mr. Tütük, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Gök, Mr. Köse, Mr. Juvenile, Mr. Güler, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Batum, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Baykal, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sapan, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 71: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We sentence the offender to expenses under Article 71 of the current 592 row bill and propose that the declaration be removed from the text of matter. Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Iron Steel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Charter of the Law for Changes in Some Laws 71. We propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter and that other substances be identified accordingly. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 71. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0097par0210	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0095par0211	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0098par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0095par0213	Mr. Münir Kutluata will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0099par0216	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on behalf of the 71st Amendment to the Turkish Penal Code and some Laws. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing some changes in the Turkish Penal Code, but we all know that neither the Penal Code nor the Constitution is in order to preserve the interests of the Turkish nation and sustain the existence of our state, the Constitution and the laws are blocked. It seems that this blockade will continue until the ruling-PKK alliance meets its PKK targets, from a Turkish perspective, until it is too late. Every day, Turkey lives in agony, the shocking examples confirming our discovery. We had an example of this last week, June 8th, when the Turkish flag in the garden of the 2nd Air Force Command in Diyarbakir was downloaded from the post. The incident is too serious to be seen as the work of a terrorist organization militant to avoid statements that would serve as a cover for the main responsible. In other words, who is behind downloading and chewing the Turkish flag from Turkey? Who are the traitors who did this to please the Turkish nation? Could it be a common gesture to the Deputy Prime Minister, the co-ordinator of the division process, who was busy in Diyarbakir, solving Turkey's lockdown at the same time? The incident is curious about its relationship with the separatist meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister Alparslan, in which Alparslan solved the Byzantine lock in Malazzirt. It is necessary to ask the Prime Minister and his deputy Prime Minister, who has co-ordinating the division process with the PKK's leader: Is the Turkish flag flying in areas outside military units in Southeast Anatolia, or has it been removed from many places? Has the government taken down the Turkish flag from the region after removing the signage of the Republic of Turkey, the Andizım, and the Turkish flag from our schools? Is the Turkish flag fluctuating in the southeast schools and municipalities of the Republic of Turkey? Whether the government knows about this or follows it, whether they care about it or not, it's a matter of fact. Now, I'll ask you again: who are the downloaders, downloaders, and watchers who sent down the Turkish flag in Turkey? It is clear that the Chief of Staff and the commanders at the base are among the watchers of the responsible. The government's location needs to be clear. Woe to those who follow; but if they are among those who bring it down, I refer it to the Turkish Nation and to the Almighty God. The hand reaching for our flag is known to want to please the terrorist organization on one side of the negotiating table, and it is understood from the direction of the events, which are thought to please the government at the same table. With the support of the Prime Minister and the prime minister, the prime minister who kicked the painful workers that the police had knocked down in Soma, they can't say they don't know who they're going to please when they're taking down the Turkish flag with all the support of the prime minister. The responsibility of a government that splits its unconditional sovereignty with a terrorist organisation on the forehead of the Turkish nation's parliament, entrusted to its own honor is clear. In that sense, in the shadow of the new traumatic events that Turkey has experienced every day... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We expect the responsible, the instigators, and the audience to remain inconspicuous and do what needs to be done. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0100par0225	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Charter of the Law for Changes in Some Laws 71. We propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter and that other substances be identified accordingly. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0101par0232	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0100par0233	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0102par0234	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0100par0235	Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0103par0238	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 71 of Law Bill 592. First of all, I salute you again. Dear MPs, as we all know, the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. The quality of the state of law of the Republic of Turkey and its principles have been explained and explained to the extent that there will be no comment in the 2nd article of our Constitution and in the beginning part of our Constitution. Thus, in order for the state of law to survive, principles based on the rule of law must also be maintained. As our lawmakers, our basic duty as representatives of the people -- our oath of allegiance to the Constitution -- is to protect the principles of the state of law and responsibility. But unfortunately, with this bill, the fundamental principles of the state of law are completely eliminated, and the leg of the state of law is cut off. Because we've talked about the basic principles based on the legal state, and we've just spoken about the 70th article -- just like the 70th article, this article is a provision that will increase the joy, increase the law, eliminate the rule of legal security. Dear lawmakers, the principle of legal security requires citizens to have confidence in their actions against their state, judgment. Avoiding such acts of trust is also the basic duty of both the judiciary and the administration and us, of living. However, with this arrangement, we completely eliminate the citizen's sense of trust against the state, against the judiciary, against the law. What do we do in Article 71? Today, we're changing the objection to the decision that there is no room for prosecution against non-objective verdicts, even though the law is the closest criminal court to which the republic's prosecutor, who made the ruling on non-obstructions, is the nearest criminal court to which the republican prosecutor is committed. We're taking this authority from the criminal court, the nearest criminal court, where we're giving it to the justice of the justice of the peace, where the republic's prosecutor has decided not to follow.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0104par0241	Peace is not law.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0103par0242	We're giving it to the magistrate. So, therefore, we leave the objection, examined by three people in the criminal court, to the will and initiative of a single judge, in whose place the prosecutor is in a personal relationship, in the same place, under the same roof. Dear friends, in this way, we are reluctant to make a decision that is arbitraryly untraceable. By leaving the authority of non-observation to a single judge in a personal relationship with him, we're actually bringing down a mechanism that will prevent corruption, which will be decisive on corruption. We're doing this on December 17th and December 25th because of corruption investigations on Turkey's agenda. So on December 17th and December 25th, Turkey entered a new era. In Turkey, we have seen very clearly that many people, including businessmen, bureaucrats, politicians, have been involved in corruption, sir, that millions of dollars have been imposed on the government in a way that causes public damage to the tenders. Now, with this arrangement, the Justice Department is now making Turkey a paradise of corruption. The three-man criminal courts will no longer review the non-obstructive verdicts. You're going through the House to arrange for the three Supreme Courts of Criminal Courts, three judges, to listen to the telephones, to be carried out by the common decision of three judges, but you're taking the objections to non-obsession decisions in very important cases from a three-man criminal court and leaving it to the will and initiative of a single judge, a court of justice, a court of justice, and an initiative. I, on behalf of the nation, ask and ask MPs who have sworn allegiance to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who have sworn allegiance to the Constitution, who I believe are sincere to corruption, to say no to this clause and to support our proposal to be removed from the text of matter. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0105par0247	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We sentence the offender to expenses under Article 71 of the current 592 row bill and propose that the declaration be removed from the text of matter. Iron Steel and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0106par0254	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0105par0255	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0107par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0105par0257	Mr. Adil Zozani will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0108par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Since yesterday, Turkey is in a way public testimony that the masks have been dropped. Now, we've talked a lot about this bill, and we've talked a lot about materials, but I think that right now Turkey is not very interested in the content of these substances because Turkey's public agenda is not this bill. Turkey is the development of the public's agenda in nearby geography, following them. We downloaded the motion here yesterday, we discussed the motion, and we submitted our motion to Parliament following the motion for a general meeting. In the normal case, what you normally have to do is, as soon as possible, you have to bring it up and evaluate this hot development in Parliament and inform the public in this framework, which is what the government should do. That was the frame that was agreed on last night. But we think that after last night, a three-way scheme came into play, the CHP, MHP, AKP agreed that this motion was to be kept from the public in particular and not to be discussed in public; there was a threesome here. Why is this conspiracy here? CHP, MHP, AKP, why is Turkey preventing public talk about developments in ISIS? Based on what? We find it difficult to understand what kind of sensitivity would cause such an alibi to be hidden behind such sensitivity. Therefore, we make it clear: Yes, Turkey is the closest group to the HDP Group to follow the development of Turkey from the beginning, in Turkey's populations and in Turkey's India. We shared the realities there, the developments there, as our language turned from this bench, Turkey's public opinion, and Turkey shared the dangers with the public. At present, the Middle East has become a mystery of who is behind the plots, and unfortunately, while these countertops are being set up, Turkey has also witnessed a public reality as the plots are being set up. We can look at the Clave archives, the speeches made from this bench, and we can see who, what he said, all the reality here. Turkey is stuck in a swamp that it has built. Unfortunately, strategic depth has turned into strategic wells and Turkey has been thrown into these wells by hand. In Turkey's nearby geography, not only do the rulings change; in those geographys there are no coups; people are not slaughtered; at the same time, there are developments that will directly affect Turkey's social life, directly affect the way people live. Article 1 of the Manifesto manifesto, which ISIS published today in Musul, says women will not go out on the street. It states that they accept the possessions they confiscated as spoils of war. He also gave the authority to save money on the spoils of war to Abu Bakir Bağdadi, the head of ISIS. Imagine the danger in our nearby geography, a danger that can directly interfere with our social life, even our way of life. Why did we prevent Turkey from discussing this in public, why did three parties agree on this, why did it refuse to negotiate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the dark of the night, which must be explained. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0109par0268	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0110par0269	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0111par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0109par0271	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0110par0272	Mr. Speaker, I believe that the three political parties are conspiring against the developments in Mosul...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0109par0273	He said, "You set up a bridge."
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0110par0274	Yeah, that's the kind of work they'd get into.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0109par0275	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0110par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you all. Yes, yesterday at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we had planned a private meeting about the developments in Mosul, four political parties together. Later, in the wake of developments in the night and morning hours, we received a request from our government to postpone these talks for a very short period of time, especially since there have been intense talks about the release of our citizens who are now being held captive there, and there has been a very sensitive, critical process, and there is a possibility of affecting this process from Turkey, in order to eliminate the possibility of harming our citizens, and we have discussed this request separately -- once again, thank them -- in the same context, and we have put it off for a very short period of time. I mean, maybe the speaker knew about it, I don't know, but it was conducted by my own person, and I've spoken to the members of three of our group, and all three of them were agreed upon, so there's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no such thing, there's no such thing. Also, all of our political parties have expressed their sensibilities over and over again, all of us, all of us, political parties. It's not supposed to be unfair in this respect, but it's really a state-of-the-art...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0112par0282	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0110par0283	...and that's what was decided in his heart. This will be discussed, we'll discuss it, we'll discuss it in detail, so there's no such thing as elimination, so it's not fair to our political parties. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0112par0286	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0113par0287	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0112par0288	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0113par0289	Sir, the speaker just spoke of the plot, and the party was also spoken of in crimes. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0112par0290	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0113par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, now, I think he's just made a very serious accusation, the HDP MP. Now, this issue of Mosul is more than just a matter of parties, it's a national issue, and so the idea of parties plotting against each other or conspiring against another party is very, very wrong, and it's a dirty expression for the House. As a matter of fact, there is no conspiracy here. We never say we're happy with what the ruling party has done, but it's now a matter of policy, and many of our citizens, especially in the face of the invasion of a land piece of Turkey -- no one will mind -- we support it as the National Movement Party, regardless of that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] So, here, because the Minister of Foreign Affairs is involved in a whole new set of initiatives and a kind set of talks, we've agreed to this a little bit later because they have a demand for a postponement of these talks after the completion of these talks, and after the talks with the leaders, this will be brought back to the Grand National Assembly. Therefore, there is no conspiracy of any party. Besides, I'm condemning anyone who's framed for our party. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0299	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0115par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0301	Mr. Zozani, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0115par0302	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli has informed the House that the 3 parties have been met with the group's representatives and agreed that this decision has been taken over. That information is not true, I want to correct it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0303	It's an explanation, not a taunt. I'll give you a minute from your position.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0115par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Canikli has just stated that the decision was made after the three parties were agreed separately with the group's representatives. That is not true. After the AKP, CHP, the MPS of the group first agreed on this agreement between themselves, we reached such a decision, we reached a settlement. What did the HDP say about this? This is how this information was presented to the Parliament and to the public by Mr. Idris Baluken, our Group Vice President, who was quoted earlier on the AKP group proposal. Thus, the information expressed just now is not accurate information. After the Covenant was established, the result of the agreement is constantly shared with us, and Mr. Baluken expressed in his speech that this method, this style, is wrong and that we do not agree with this style.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0309	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0116par0310	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0311	Are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0116par0312	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0313	Here, one minute from your seat.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0116par0315	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I spoke to Mr. Oktay Vural, deputy leader of the National Movement Party Group, and I started calling at the same time. It's all about the order of access, so it's about the order of access. Then I spoke to Mr. Muharrem Encel, and then I spoke to Mr. Idris Bauken. I've seen them all in the same context. What do you say? he said: "O What is your decision? I mean, what kind of idea are we to meet with two parties and dictate the outcome... so, first of all, it's disrespectful. So, to a political party, we think so, do it. We will apply it. There is no way that we can have an attitude that might have meant it. The way we met with three other political parties, we talked to them in the same context, even using the same words, and so after Mr. Bauken said, "It's OK." We did it and we waited.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0318	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0116par0319	Let me finish, it's important.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0320	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0116par0321	Besides, Mr. Foreign Minister acted after we interviewed all other political parties, so he didn't act until then, so after meeting with HDP Group Deputy President, after finishing, this is the method. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0114par0323	Fair enough, Mr. Canicli, it's on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0117par0325	Mr. President, for the record, I'd like to share something with you. The proposed group is the People's Democratic Party Group, and the signatories are 20 MPs from Peoples' Democratic Party Group. If such a matter is to be discussed, it will be discussed first with the parties who have the motion, and then with other groups. That's not the way the method works, it's not admissible, and the information that our Group Vice President just gave us and the information that I've just expressed is accurate information. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0118par0328	Mr. Zozani, thank you. There are these kinds of meetings between parties, and I think it's necessary not to call them that. I wanted to make a note like this because I've been acting as group president in the past. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 72: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 72 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 231. In addition to the clause, we propose that the sentence "for the crime" be replaced by the sentence "for the crime." Jesus Gök Ömer Suha Aldan Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Flood Köse Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 72 of the current law bill 592 be removed from the draft text. Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Selma River Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0119par0351	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0118par0352	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0120par0353	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0118par0354	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0121par0357	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party following our motion. I salute the General Assembly. And I have made a promise on behalf of my party to bring up problems with prisons. The physical structure of prisons, the negativity of execution conditions, especially the physical and psychological effects of isolation. Prisons are forced to live without basic rights, human standards, such as nutrition, hygiene, right to health care. In addition, the negative impact of long-term prison sentences and isolation on the health of the prisoners is also evident in the constraints of rights and freedoms. Dear lawmakers, all who have been deprived of their freedom of ten part of the International Pact of Freedoms and Political Rights, signed by Turkey on 15 August 2000 by the United Nations, are treated with respect for the dignity of drinking the human and human personality. The European penal code, which was adopted in 1987, should also ensure that the conditions of the arrest should be respected in the honor of the people, and that detention should be carried out objectively, without discrimination. The problem of sick prisoners is constantly being kept on the agenda by various NGOs, especially the relatives of prisoners. Despite numerous talks with the Justice Department on such a delicate and human matter, this problem is still not resolved. Several calls have been made to point to the condition of the sick prisoners, to the ongoing torture and abuse of prisons, to the authorities to take precautions on the matter. Not just us, but sensitive human rights advocates, democrat organizations, they're developing a constant struggle over the problems of prison neglect and heavy-patient prisoners, but unfortunately today, the picture we're looking at is much more dire than it used to be. The number of sick prisoners has increased, while the complaints of abuse in prison continue to increase. Dear lawmakers, regardless of the fact that prisoners have regular and adequate diagnosis, treatment, control opportunities, there is little access to the doctor. There are no regular doctors in prisons where the number of prisoners is hundreds, or even 2,000. Aside from the fact that working doctors are not experts, since family medicine has been introduced to prisons, doctors have been in prisons two or three times a week, one day at a time, and in that limited time the diagnosis and treatment of diseases are already not possible. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, who are in dire condition and are unable to treat in prison infirmarys, are unable to transfer themselves to relevant health institutions for a long time; even if the transfer decisions are issued, they are unable to reach the hospital because of the lack of vehicles or personnel. If the hospitals are reached, the gendarme's intervention, the constraint of the handcuffed examination, sometimes the diagnosis and treatments can't be done in any way or are sent back with an inadequate and superficial examination. In cases that require immediate attention, such as a heart attack, sick prisoners in this position often lose their lives until permissions are issued to be taken to the hospital, due to the absence of a day-to-night physician in prisons -- because he cannot be intervened in his time. Dear lawmakers, the Forensic Medicine Agency remains an official expert, unable to act objectively, and does not make scientific and objective evaluations in its decisions. It's not objective or fair to leave the report to the individual monopoly of the Forensic Medical Association. He believes in university hospitals, education and research hospitals, full-fledged state hospitals, the need to be recognized at the point of giving objective reports on the health of sick prisoners, and in that sense again, I urge the Minister and all concerned to be sensitive, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0122par0364	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 72 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 231. In addition to the clause, we propose that the sentence "for the crime" be replaced by the sentence "for the crime." Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0123par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0122par0372	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0124par0373	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0122par0374	The motion will be addressed by Ezekiel MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0125par0377	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Penal Code No. 592 and to our motion to change certain Laws. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, you've had a habit of changing certain laws from a long time ago, and unfortunately, you don't give up. Recently, the report on what happened in TÜBITAK is an event that reveals the state of the judicial system in Turkey. You're creating a way for people to call it "dublaj" even though they're now known to have committed crimes on camera. That understanding causes the public's confidence in justice to disappear. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were told that the talks between the Prime Minister and his children were a montage between ministers and businessmen, and you know that they invaded the public. In particular, you've all witnessed Mr. Fikri Izli, Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, making a series of statements about this that will confuse society. First of all, I would like to point out that Mr. Impulsion of Impulsion and Kopeeli MP are the ministers, especially Mr. Nihat Ergün, who has taken over from the former Minister. Nice to meet you, too, I must admit. Nice to meet you, too. What did I expect from Mr. Light? At the very least, I expected that the IT valley, which was thought to be built in Gebze, would be quick to implement, that they would immediately allocate a substance about the establishment of Gebze University -- rather than withdraw it -- but that Mr. I was hoping that Mr. Light would give the areas of the military that had been evacuated from Gebze to the benefit of society, and beyond that, in TÜBİTİTAK, there would be some significant developments in the TİBİTİTİAK, which he was bound to make. As soon as he came into office, he took on the protection of the Prime Minister, and in doing so, he almost discredited the TUBITAK, which is important to all of us. As soon as the Minister comes into office, he says to the audio recordings: I feel that these are montages. These are montages. He becomes the authority of what he calls the institution. I'd like to leave it to your conscience if it's ethical. Dear MPs, TÜBITAK is an important scientific and research centre for Turkey. EVERY TÜBITAK President, every time the minister changes, there are earthquakes in TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK); some are playing around, some are being relieved of their duties, some are being fired from their jobs. Look, Mr. Fikri, as of now since Light's arrival, 250 people have been terminated, 90 of whom are senior executives. I'm asking the Minister, why are you playing with these people's bread? Why do you feel the need to play with it? Is your conscience clear about this? In a statement to the press, Mr. Secretary says that the TÜBITAK has been occupied almost in the last few years. He was occupied by parallel forces, especially during the time of Mr. Hasan Palaz. I ask the Minister: When did Mr. Hasan Palaz arrive? 2012. In what ministry period? Mr. Nihat Ergun. I'm asking you now: I don't work with the minister who's being interviewed, not by his superior, but by his brother. Are these bureaucrats who you raised and planted during Nihat Ergun, the rest of the parallel structure? Is that why you dismissed Mr. Minister Ergün? I'd like to ask your conscience again. Let's say you replace a senior manager, play with 250 people's bread in the last three months and leave them in the middle of the street, are they a continuation of the parallel structure? I'd like to point out that you don't play with anyone's bread, and please don't deal with it by putting a parallel face on the back of the mistakes you've made. Mr. Secretary, when you arrived in office, did you suddenly bring your sense of editing to a scientific position by bringing a director to the zoo in charge of a scientific institution to a scientific point? Do you think that's a relief to the public conscience of society? I'd like to point out, dear lawmakers, that no matter what you do, whether you play with the judiciary or go behind the law, you will not be able to stop the Prime Minister and the ministers from going to the Supreme Court. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0126par0386	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 73rd draft of the current 592 rows of legislation. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. Ali Riza Özturk Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ali İhsan İkturk Bedii Süheyl Batum Emine Gıler Tarhan Turgut Dibek (3) The Penal Code of those held above is 311. In the matter of the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, it has the authority to ask for a resuscitation. Penal Code 311. Article 1 of the article. In the case of 5 years and more prison sentences related to his joke (a) and (e)bents, those listed above will have to explain their reasons for not objecting within 15 days, starting with the application. An appeal to the Supreme Court's General Assembly will be filed against this reason within a week, and it will be decided within a month at the latest by a committee of nine of the most senior members who have not participated in the verdict. Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 592 Term Numbered Legislature shall be removed from the Charter text because of its violation of the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Mehmet Şandir Münir Kutluata Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Korkmaz Yusef Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0127par0410	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0126par0411	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0128par0412	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0126par0413	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0129par0416	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is the blessed Berat Kandili. For this blessed night, I'd like to begin by praying to God to bless you, our beloved nation, and the Turkish-Islam world. Dear MPs, for two days Mosul, Tuzhurmatou is crying blood. ISIS forces occupied the Turkish home of Mosul and Tuzhurmatu, hundreds of dead, wounded, hundreds of thousands of families had to emigrate. Our citizens specifically want us to ask the government, and they say: "Hasn't the Prime Minister mixed his interests with his personal ambitions and raised ISIS?" The ones who growl at the Turkish nation today are the ISIS forces that the AKP has fed and raised? They want us to ask you specifically. Dear friends, a person would lie, and then everyone, especially himself, would believe it. That's exactly what Erdogan said to the world leader, a wise AKP member, and then the AKP people believed it, especially his own. ▪ Earth leader Erdogan, let the little horse and chicks eat! Look, I'll tell you what trouble we've been exposed to in our country run by the AKP, what trouble we've faced: in your country, the guarantee of national security, they've framed your army, they've put a bag over your military, the symbol of your independence, the moon star flag has been lowered, the Turkish consulate has been invaded, the diplomats with international immunity have been held hostage, your ship sunk, your international airspace, your plane has been shot down every morning, your helicopter has been shot down, and traitors are in order to insult our beloved nation. The country's name has been erased from the signs in the Republic of Turkey's state, and its state has been called "Islamgarian." They wanted the founding philosophy of this country to be erased from the Constitution, and the founder of this republic, the architect of our War of Istliklal, was compared to Nazi comrades, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We face history, our past. The way you opened up after your promise, there have been insults and foul slanders. The greatest slander in history is the claim that the Turks of Asia Minor slaughtered 1.5 million Armenians. Didn't the AKP and the Prime Minister come out and say, "I feel sorry for the Armenians who died in almost every village in the eastern part of the country, when there were mass graves buried in every town where the Armenians slaughtered Turks, and so far all governments, their rightist leftist faced this lie?" I'm sorry, Mr. Prime Minister, but you're not even there for the murdered Turks, but you're the Prime Minister of my country after all you've done to the Turkish nation. The mayor of Diyarbakır reminded you of the branches of oak, and he insulted you; believe me, more than anyone, our hearts ache. Yes, Mr. Lies, and the comets, the story of the world leader, where are you?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0130par0423	Don't be disrespectful! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0129par0424	When all this is happening, yes, where are you, world leader, where are you, spirit?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0130par0425	Shame on you! That's the people's stand.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0131par0426	Congressman, please speak in a clean language and don't bother with the person. Please...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0129par0427	Three times Turkey is proud of you. If I say so, come out, or stay behind the stone, the rock, the hole!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0132par0428	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0129par0429	Maybe it's better for you to be hidden there, hiding there, than to show up and hurt this nation, this government. I salute the great nation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0133par0432	Don't salute, don't salute!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0134par0433	We don't expect respect from you, disrespect!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0135par0434	Congressmans, please... I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 73rd draft of the current 592 rows of legislation. We submit and propose that the following joke be added to the article. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends (3) Those who are listed above are under Penal Code 311. In the matter of the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, it has the authority to ask for a resuscitation. Penal Code 311. Article 1 of the article. In the case of 5 years and more prison sentences related to his joke (a) and (e)bents, those listed above will have to explain their reasons for not objecting within 15 days, starting with the application. An appeal to the Supreme Court's General Assembly will be filed against this reason within a week, and it will be decided within a month at the latest by a committee of nine of the most senior members who have not participated in the verdict. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0136par0443	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0135par0444	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0137par0445	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0135par0446	On the motion, Mr. Cork MP will speak to Mr. Flood Köse. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0138par0449	Mr. President, we have a request for a change in Article 311. What's the motive? You know, for many years, some of the trials in our country have been based solely on digital records, based on digital records, digital records that don't carry any hand product, based on secret witness testimony that shouldn't be in a modern legal system, and based on illegal listening that shouldn't be in a modern legal system, many citizens, intellectuals, military, scientist, journalist have remained in prisons for many years, and still remain in prisons. The sledgehammer case is an example, the Ergenekon case is an example, the military espionage case is an example. In this amendment motion, we ask that the law be changed which only recognises the right to request extradition of the trial in these cases to the Supreme Court Attorney. When the Attorney General rejects this request -- the request for extradition -- he does not have to give any grounds, and there is no objection to that decision. What are we bringing with this change? With this amendment, in the event of the fraud of a document used in the trial and affecting the verdict -- that was me (a) of the 311st (a) -- and when new events and new evidence have been uncovered and given evidence, we would like prosecutors of the Supreme Court to do so, not only if the defendant is acquitted or convicted of a lighter sentence. If they don't do it, in 15 days, if they don't object, if they don't go through with the extradition of the trial, let them make a decision. We would like the extradition of the court to be carried out against this verdict in accordance with the decision made by nine of the most senior Supreme Court judges who had not attended the first hearing. It's a very human thing, something that happens in all modern countries. We're just disintegrating the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court's Attorney General without justification and we're trying to justify it. That's what we want, and we'd like you to vote positively for this motion. My dear friends, now, the agenda is growing very quickly. We had a flag thing, you know. The flag was lowered, the heads of various opposition parties, even the Prime Minister, spoke very heavily. It's not acceptable to drop the flag, of course. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, you know, had the Greek flag raised in front of him after the invasion of Izmir. Why? The flag is a symbol of the honor of a country, of a nation. No one can disrespect that flag, but when the flag is desecrated, his forehead doesn't have to be shot on the roof or anything, and whatever the punishment is, it's ruled as stated in the Turkish Penal Code. Now, my dear friends, of course, there is something worse than lowering the flag, there is such a thing as daring to lower the flag. Now, you've turned this nation's army into birds. Now, there's Navy Commander Nusret Güner, who said, "We've even left the war games in case they think we're planning a coup." Think of a Navy Commander like that. I went to visit Ilker Basbug, İlker Başbug, and I said, "If I hadn't opened the cosmic room, they would have thought of me in all this, so I opened up so they would have blamed me for the coup artist." He said, "When we went with our friends." Now, Mr. Bulent Arinc, I believe is here -- this cosmic room was entered after a claim against Mr. Bulent Arinc. What would this army do, brother? You've tied up this army. Now, the ISIS thing. Now in the ISIS case -- you know, I told you last time -- 20,000 trucks went to Syria, controlled by the MIT, and when it was captured, they said, "Well, is the National Intelligence Agency a relief agency, so let them send out the aid supplies, don't we have any other aid organizations, our NGOs, our NGOs? I do. It's been revealed what they were sent with. This was also part of many foreign press organizations. It turns out that it was military material sent today and that it was in Syria, in Iraq, a group of perverts who played the ball and uploaded it to YouTube, and that it was in the hands of Al-Qaeda (Al-Qaeda) (Al-Qaeda). Unfortunately, our ministers branded the prosecutors there as traitors. Well, these prosecutors can't serve either. So, unfortunately, you removed the country's system, the 90-year-old system of the Republic of Turkey, the system of the Turks in the 3,000-year history. It's not easy, we're in a bad place with all our neighbors. However, in foreign policy, it's important to have good relations with your close neighbors first. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0139par0460	Thank you, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0140par0461	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit04spe0139par0462	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0139par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. The decision to vote on Article 73 was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit Article 73 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in article 74: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the sentence of "the decision to arrest" or be added to the item text of "or the decision to dismiss" after the declaration of "the arrest" which follows the statement "the decision to arrest" of Article 74 of the draft law." Halil Aksoy Adil Zozani Iron Steel Erol Dora Selma River Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 74 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. We propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter and that other substances be identified accordingly. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Levent Gök Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 74. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Reşat Right Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0141par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0139par0030	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0142par0031	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0139par0032	Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0143par0035	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, first of all, I'd like to say that, really, now, they just brought up the shooting of your forehead from the roof.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0139par0038	Quiet, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0143par0039	What would they do if someone tried to enter the Pentagon in the United States? Or if someone tried to enter the Presidential Palace, what would they do when they tried to jump off the wall? Again, you remember England, a person on the subway shot a policeman in the forehead, and then they said, "This man was innocent. Why did you shoot him? Yes, he was indeed an innocent man, but the police said: "Whoever does not obey the law, let him stay. Whoever does not obey us, we will shoot. " And no one objected. Now, one person under the law...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0144par0040	Oh, what kind of a thing is that, Mayor? Then what's the law for? Then what's the law for?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0143par0041	It's the law, it's the law, but the law also says...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0144par0042	Then take the one who puts the flag down and shoot him?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0143par0043	One man will jump from fences into the field of military unity without permission, and he will go up to the post, where he will bring down a flag representing the military union, representing the country, and you will say: "Laws. Put the law on your head, and you will be shot in the forehead.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0144par0044	There's no such law. If he did, he'd be a government guy, so he wouldn't shoot.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0143par0045	Why do you get shot? Because bringing down the flag of the country means bringing down the government. So...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0145par0046	They probably didn't hit him because he was familiar.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0144par0047	Familiar, familiar.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0145par0048	They don't do it because it's familiar, they do it normally.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0146par0049	He won't be familiar or unknown. So that's how it's done. Then you should have said the same thing about the man who was shot down from the roof of his forehead in Cyprus. If there's someone who's bringing down a flag, it means someone who's already an enemy of the state, someone who doesn't respect that country. It's your reputation. Sir, you don't have the luxury of saying, "I'll punish you in front of the law." So you have to think of it differently, the flag isn't like anything else. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to talk to you about something. It's a matter of child-to-child marriages. Now, as of 2008 in our country, UNICEF has announced that under 18-year-old marriages are 30 per cent in girls and around 7 per cent in boys. According to Interior Ministry data, the number of marriages under the age of 18 has exceeded 130,000 in the last three years. The number of girls married underage is 20 times greater than the number of boys. Dear lawmakers, we now state the importance of children on our part, and we are not making any serious breakthroughs in this matter. Look, the Turkish Penal Code punishes parents for participation and compulsion in unlawfully marrying their children. In our country, the rate of marrying girls under the age of 18 is 31.7%, and according to recent research, there are 181,000 children's brides in our country. Dear lawmakers, we say that children cannot act of their own free will, and we arrange the penal code accordingly, but by risking a child, we attempt to marry him when he is still a child, when he is a minor. For this reason, there is no such thing as an imam wedding or an imam wedding, especially for the parents, which is in our religion, and let me make it clear to you that those who perform this ritual must also be punished in the same way. It's just not supposed to go away for six months. And if that's the way it's going to be increased, I think it's going to be an important step forward. In elementary schools, it is important for children to also be trained against abuse and marriage in this way. I offer you all respect and consideration for your knowledge.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0055	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0148par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0057	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0148par0058	For the past few days, we've been talking about our group...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0059	Congressmans, would you please shut up, please? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0148par0061	We're dealing with a phenomenon that's subjugated and almost transformed into a social code. Mr. Orator gave similar implied speeches. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words on behalf of our group for a moment or two.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0063	Mr. Baluken didn't make a mockery of your group by mentioning its name.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0149par0064	On the contrary, I picked on CHP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0065	Now, you've got a motion to make, and you'll take it there and you'll tell me in five minutes.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0149par0066	I've teased the People's Party of Cumhuriyet, I've never spoken to the BDP about HDP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0150par0067	Well, in that case, I'll be the one to put it in the transcripts, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0068	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0150par0069	We, the People's Democratic Party and the Party of Peace and Democracy, are already institutions that make legal politics according to the laws of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0147par0070	Yeah, you always say that.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0150par0071	We can never be expected to have a problem with the flag or the borders of this state.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0151par0072	I didn't say anything against you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0150par0073	We run politics in the common country, democratic republic and the perspective of democratic autonomy. It is also known from a different point of view that both the illegal formations that have been implied here and the statement that condemns this flag provocation, but it is known from the very first day that Mr. Ocalan put forward this flag provocation as a provocation for them. Turkey, a democratic state of law, brings the person who makes this provocation to justice; behind it, it exposes the forces in the background to the public, to the public; it conducts the necessary judicial processes.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0152par0074	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0150par0075	There is no law in the matter of striking anyone on the forehead for any crime. I'm stating that this should go on the record.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0152par0076	Mr. Baluken, thank you. I'm already saying that by the time you got here, your deputies had made that statement on various occasions from the microphone, and you've recorded it once again. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 74 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. We propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter and that other substances be identified accordingly. Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0153par0083	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0152par0084	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0154par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0152par0086	Ankara MP Levent Gök will talk on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0155par0088	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on Article 74 of Law Bill 592 that we're discussing. I salute you all with love. The 71st article, which we discussed earlier, and the prosecutors' decision that there is no room for prosecution, has been removed from heavy criminal courts, which objecting to the decision that there is no room for prosecution, and a new court of justice has been dismissed and a new court of justice has been violated in the process of investigating. Now, with this amendment brought in, the authority to examine objections against the judge's verdicts is again granted to the nearest justice judge within his jurisdiction, according to the number order. However, according to our current law, the objections against the verdicts of the judicial judges were protected by a system that examined the objections through a series of courts' expertise and past experiences, including an appeal against the original criminal court, the original criminal court's decisions. Now, it's a radical change in our legal system that all of a sudden the decisions made by the justice of the peace are being investigated by the same judicial justices. Mr. President, most of our dear lawmakers know that the grounds for such radical changes in the legal system have not even been well expressed in the grounds of the law, and it is said that they will benefit from their expertise by being given to the judicial justices. The criminal courts are more experienced, more experienced, more experienced judges in criminal courts. Now, you're going to talk about expertise on the basis of substance, but you're going to make a man who's just started a job, who's going to be a judge of objection, even though he hasn't been able to get some of the experience he can in primary criminal courts and severe criminal courts. It's impossible to understand. On the basis of the article, in the grounds of the law, this reason is absolutely contrary to the conditions of the day and the system we apply. Now, why is this being done? In decisions such as arrest, search, and seizure, the court judge's decision will go to the nearest judge. My dear friends, in many places the magistrates sit on the same floor, eat in the same cafeteria, share the same places and befriend each other. Now, in the law that we're trying to change, we've been asked to block a relationship between friends, block emotion, remove it, and you've been asked to look at more experienced judges through a sequence, but you're removing it. This is a very wrong arrangement, and you will see this wrong arrangement in action. Emotional friendships, closeness will come into play, and the world of law will be turned upside down by a single judge and a new criminal judge will make very important decisions, as there is no room for prosecution, and the decisions that the severe criminal courts have studied so far will be given to these new judges. You have no right. Look, in the course of this, you're talking about the general reason for the law to activate the judiciary, you're talking about speeding it up. Well, well, there was a decision in Hatay today. In Hatay's case, Abdullah's generous case was decided to be transferred to the Ministry of Justice in order to prevent security from being provided in Hatay. Do you think this is an act of effective justice? Two years and seven months ago, 34 citizens were killed, and not a single trial was opened. In the case of Ethem Sarısuluk, the victims are being devastated. In the case of Ali İhsan Korkmaz, the victims are being devastated by their families. You haven't been able to do that yet, and you're talking about the effect of the trial on the basis of the substance. It's absolutely impossible to explain it that way. Of course, we don't have a lot of time to talk about it, but you won't understand it for a long time. I hereby salute you all, and say that I also congratulate you on today's Berat Kandili. I salute all our citizens and you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0156par0099	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that Article 74 of Article 592 of the draft law be added to the item's clause "the decision to arrest or arrest" to be issued after "the declaration of detention." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0157par0106	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0156par0107	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0158par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0156par0109	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0112	Dear lawmakers, will there be real justice in Turkey, independent justice, an impartial judgment? Not with these packages, not with these laws. Put that in your head once, absolutely not. We're talking about a judicial system that still hasn't dealt with the lengthy arrest, despite the Constitutional Court's ruling. Undercover testimony, covert investigation, covert testimony, wiretaps. No secret, secret, secret justice, my friends. That's a second point. Look, you've closed private jurisdictional courts. My mayors from Şırnak have been arrested for nearly four years, their files are missing. He is not in Şırnak Heavy Penal Court, he is not in Cizre Heavy Penal Court. How do you get justice in a country that doesn't have their files, in a law state, in a country that's under arrest for missing files?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0160par0115	We don't need a political decision. We don't need a file.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0116	My mayor is under arrest from Şırnak, and he is staying in Edirne Type F Prison. My other city council members are staying in Tekirdağ Prison, where they are being tried in Diyarbakır. There's no reason for us to fool ourselves here now. That way there's no justice. If there really was a legal state in this country, the Prime Minister wouldn't go out and shoot a child provocateur on the roof of his forehead, which he used. It's a scandal to hear a prime minister say that in a state of law, my friends.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0161par0117	That's not what he said! He said, "Put it down!"
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0118	It's a crime to say, "Put it down." It's a crime to encourage the attack on university students in Tokat. It's a crime to provoke, to provoke, to provoke people to crime. They're friends in the penal code. If he were a courageous prosecutor, he would have sent a statement against any political party leader or member who said so. If we told him, he'd be in Congress in less than 24 hours, but the prosecutors don't write the reviews for other people. Now, isn't any of that a crime? To provoke people to commit crimes, to commit a crime, to target a population of millions of people in Kızılay Square in Ankara, to hold a tomb for the Kurds in Ankara. I don't know where they're going to... they're going to react, of course they're going to be sensitive, but they're not going to become violent if they don't become violent, as long as they don't. You'll realize what happened. Look, when we were talking about this, you saw what happened at your consulate in Mosul. You've seen it, haven't you? Your consulate has been breached...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0162par0121	It's your consulate, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0122	...pulled from your consulate, both the consul and the staff, the children, the families, the black flags, but no response. Look, notice, if your national emotions are so sensitive, you'll find that child provocateur, you'll find the one behind it, you'll find the one who pulled it out of that pole; that's justice, that's law.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0163par0123	They're their own people.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0124	The provocateurs in Mersin came out, the provocateurs in Mersin, who wanted to stir Mersin, the provocateurs in Congress came out. Every day, it's said... there's a political party's leader, there's a MYK, there's a party council, there's an organ in charge. Of course, everyone in the state of law always has to show the same respect for all the people, all the nation's values. There's no point in going out and using it, even though we've put our reaction, our sensitivity. Everyone in this country will know that everyone is an equal citizen, that the law works for everyone, that justice works for everyone, that justice has a sharp sword in everyone's face, that he knows what he's saying. We've seen the guys who defend the shotguns, and they've come and gone, and we haven't forgotten. Now, as far as any leader is concerned, he's going to pay attention to his words and invite him to drink. This country needs this for peace, friends.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0127	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0128	Mr. President, right now, this is a lot to talk about, so I'd like to make a statement. One of the people who said that his forehead should be shot in the roof is the president of our party, Mr. State Garden. I mean, if you'll excuse me, there's been some bullying on our president, and I'd like a two-minute promise.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0159par0129	No, not to the President General, I spoke directly to the Prime Minister's remarks. And don't take it all for granted.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0130	No, there's no bullying your president. The speaker earlier was Mr. Halaçoglu, who had spoken on Halaçoğlu's speech.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0131	President of the National Movement Party, the group meeting on Tuesday...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0132	Mr. Longhorn, would you please allow me to speak?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0133	Mr. President, I know what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0134	Now, I don't think he insulted your president. Mr. Halaçoglu has spoken on his speech, Mr. Halaçoglu has expressed his opinion, and Mr. Kaplan has expressed his opinion. I don't think it's a tease.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0135	Mr. President, to the newspapers...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0136	People can look at things differently, you have to put up with them.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0137	His thoughts may be different. Of course, there's nothing to worry about, but it's what Mr. State Gardener said at the group meeting on Tuesday, with a headline and standing ovation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0164par0138	Another member of parliament may disagree, Mr. Longitude.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0165par0139	Mr. President, it's different not to participate, but in comments...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0166par0140	It's one thing to find antidemocratic.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0167par0141	I mean, what's the big deal? If we can't talk this much on this stand, then let's tie our mouths.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0142	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0169par0143	Well, then, my dear, let me speak on this stand.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0167par0144	For God's sake, you guys are gonna say everything, but we're gonna shut up, okay? I mean, come on.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0145	Mr. Kaplan, wait a minute, I'm trying to solve the problem.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0169par0146	Let me talk to him, so I can answer him, I'm not saying anything contrary.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0167par0147	I can't say a thousandth of what I told the Prime Minister as a promise to the opposition.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0148	Mr. Kaplan, if you'll excuse me. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0170par0150	I'm not saying anything otherwise, so we can answer from the podium, our thoughts, what the truth is.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0151	Now, look, in order for you to answer from the podium, you know, Mr. Taller, you have to be teased. I listened to the speaker specifically, and there was no bullying, no bullying at your party.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0170par0152	Mr. President, I mean, a president...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0153	He interpreted your president's statement according to his own opinion, and put it into his own mind. It's not like I didn't use a clean language or anything. I don't see any bullying on the stand that I have to promise you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0170par0154	Well, Mr. President, it's your discretion, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0155	Thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0170par0156	Thank you so much for leading me so fairly, the Minister of Justice, in an interview about justice.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0157	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0170par0158	Thank you so much for your sensitivity, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0159	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 75, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 75 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The 5271 Penal Code, envisioned to be replaced with Article 273. Article 3. In its joke, we propose and propose that the word in the sentence "L" in the sentence against the provisions of the Supreme Courts within the judiciary be replaced with the word "L" in it. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 rows are 75 of the Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0171par0177	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0178	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0172par0179	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0168par0180	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0173par0183	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to shoot your head off the roof. There's a place where a knife is based on bone. The place where the knife in the public tongue is based on bone is also found in law. It's a crime to kill a man, it's a crime to kill a man in battle. Killing a man is a crime, killing a man in self-defense is a crime, not a crime, no punishment. We can replicate it like this. The military force is intermittent; the military force is intermittent. There's a legal conviction that the fugitive will be subject to; he asks for the password; if he sees it, if he can answer the password, he'll give it to him, if he doesn't give it to him, enter it, disables it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0174par0186	There are signs that it's a restricted area.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0173par0187	If he tries to take down the Turkish flag, an injustice, an asshole, and is warned twice by firing a gun, it's right to take him down, it's not a crime, and it's not a crime, of course you have to get him off the roof of his forehead. My dear friends, I'm switching to matter. Now, in this article, I'd like to present a legal situation with the thought of Mr. Minister answering the 75th article. The evidence will be re-enabled in the court of law. He said here as we speak. It also raises a very deep, very complicated problem in law. Suppose, in the court of law, one of the plaintiffs or defendants in accordance with the single rule of evidence has left its evidence unsubstantiated; the one who is awake, the other who is ill-intentioned, did not isolate it. When you go to the court of law after the verdict has been made, I will present new evidence with malicious intent. How, with what legal culture, with which memory, will you solve the legal mix-up when you say that? Thus, you are enforcing a system, a system that can protect the wicked, and a system that is organized against those who are wicked, and the law that is set up on this minival will produce total injustice. On the other hand, if the court of law breaks the verdict, it will serve as a first-degree judicial authority. When you're serving as a first-degree judicial authority -- Mr. Minister, Turkey is in a large geography, where you've established law courts will serve in a broader area than other courts -- so the county will do so by combining even a few of the provinces -- how will he make the discovery as a first-degree court, how will he listen to the witness, how many vehicles, how many cars, how many vans, how many vans, how many vans will he be able to go back there, how many vans will he follow his case? If there is no return, of course, his stay will be costly. So, the court of law, one, is persecution for the citizens; two, it will only extend the judiciary. Therefore, there will be a second reason for the violation of the right to a fair trial with these courts, and you will see that, if it does, two or three years after its implementation, Turkey's case in the European Court of Human Rights will double, triple, five times as much as today. He also says that the plague and responsibility of this will be on the shoulders of the Justice and Development Party, and I offer our motion to the honor of the grand committee, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0175par0193	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 75 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The 5271 Penal Code, envisioned to be replaced with Article 273. Article 3. In its joke, we propose and propose that the word in the sentence "L" in the sentence against the provisions of the Supreme Courts within the judiciary be replaced with the word "L" in it. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0176par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0175par0201	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0177par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0175par0203	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak on the motion. Mr. Yilmaz, we couldn't get you to 1900 yesterday. You had a plane in your speech. We didn't make it today either. That's your chance. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0178par0206	That's all right, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I'm going to talk to you about the motion that we made in Article 75, regarding Bill 592. There's actually a procedure going on here. Due to the removal of the court of peace, there is actually a regulation in the court of law on how to appeal the verdicts of the original criminal courts. Since the decision has been made to them, the prosecutors of the High Criminal Court will be able to appeal the rulings in the original criminal court. This comes as a natural result of the adoption of the constitution. There's really nothing to say to this clause, it's a technical clause, but there's actually something I want to discuss in terms of the singularity, the 59th article in this bill. Article 59 regulates Article 103 of the Turkish Penal Code. Article 103 is related to sexual assaults on children between the ages of 15 and 18. Now, our friends from practice know very clearly that there are serious criminal sanctions in the relationships between 15- to 18-year-olds or a 14-and-a-half-year-old girl and a 16-17-year-old boy. What's going on? Now, he's been sentenced to eight or fifteen years before, and now he's being sentenced to 16 years. One's 14.5, one's 16. We've been through a case like this. She says: "I kidnapped him, why are you punishing him?" Look, we're dealing with this very seriously. So, as all over the world, in fact, as many experts here say, this kind of relationship between peers -- it could be this design or it could be rape -- if they're among the peers, then they should be reduced to a reduced sentence. In a lot of European countries, if there's no violence, if there's no serious physical power difference between them, there's no criminal action on these issues, instead, different rehabilitation issues are being brought up, but when we do this here -- look, we said age 14,5-17 -- the sentence for a 17-year-old child is 16 years. This young person will then be given a reduced age, followed by an obligation to sleep with children for three-quarters of the time in matters related to sexual assault, so that this young person will be able to serve for up to eight years. Mr. Secretary, that's not gonna happen. I mean, there's got to be an adjustment to these kind of relationships between peers.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0179par0211	That's sexual assault, that's different.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0178par0212	I think it's necessary to negotiate a technique. I mean, what's happening in public is that you can't punish or punish a 30-40-year-old perv with sexual harassment from a stalker, and you can't punish children in such a severe way, you guys. I think this needs to be reconsidered. Now, from here, when our friends from the HDP Group met, they said: "There must be respect for national values. The national values of all peoples must be respected. The national values of all countries should be respected. However -- is there a Fair Zozani, I suppose, but there is no fair Zozani -- in his speech on June 5th, he said, "This is Kemalism, which you see as the founding value, a little Mussolini, a little Hitler. There was an insult to our founding values, Kemalism, Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0180par0214	There is no insult to Ataturk. There is no insult to Kemalism.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0178par0215	We want him to apologize for that, we've petitioned our Speakership. We're passing it by, and we're just passing it by yesterday, in the same way, talking about the Amasian General Assembly, and this is the secret protocols of the Amasian General Assembly, and although these secret protocols were published in 1961, they were said to be as if they were still more secret, that there was a protocol that was published in 1961, that was now published in 1961 about all kinds of Kurds' beliefs, differences, different cultures, and recognition of these things, but unfortunately, they were all forgotten, hidden, hidden, hidden, secret protocols. These lies need to stop. Please stop attacking the founding values of this country, the treaties of this country, the founding agreements and the founding leader. I found this stuff called secret, and I looked it up from several sources. Here, what, never, I mean, let the Kurds be destroyed, let it be this, let it be this. Let there be a separate state about Kurds, and there is no such thing as autonomy. He's talking about living together, brotherly, Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0181par0219	Did you read the secret subpoenas from there?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0178par0220	I mean, we're gonna say it right now, and we're gonna keep saying it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0182par0221	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0181par0222	Well, read the secret subpoenas.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0178par0223	If national values are to be respected, we expect your respect before you do.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0182par0224	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0183par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0184par0226	Dilek Haným, you don't represent CHP, so we're not taking you in.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0182par0227	Please, let's not have a bilateral discussion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0185par0229	So, he said the HDP Group attacked and insulted Turkey's national values.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0182par0230	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0185par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in fact, we don't have a problem with the Republican People's Party, but for a few days, that's how, because of the ongoing debates, there are polemics. A judicial package, a judicial system, is being discussed, and there are opposition parties that have brought this judicial package here, which have been victimised by the practices of the AKP (AKP) implementing the justice system. However, in the frame you stated, in the debates, no member of parliament has ever done the insults you mentioned to Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0186par0236	The transcripts are here, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0185par0237	Despite Mustafa Kemal, he made personal assessments of Kemalism, which was built as a monotheist, a denier, a rejecter, an assimilationist. It is not right for you to create a sense of insult to Mustafa Kemal, with criticism of Kemalism.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0186par0238	His thoughts, his doctrines.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0185par0239	We care about the vulnerabilities of 76 million. On the value of all 76 million, we would never be looking for anything that would offend the dignity of this community; and if we were, we wouldn't be seeking to become the Party of Turkey as the People's Democratic Party today. But in the matters you're talking about, we're going to bring this Parliament's founding will, the founding will in 1920, and what lies in the spirit of the 21 Constitution, how the Kurdistan mebuses came here with their own identities, and we're going to discuss it with a motion next week. We're going to bring in the paperwork on the censorship we mentioned, and we're going to bring it here. I hope and hope that you will be present in that session, through a level of discussion, we will conduct this discussion in front of the people of Turkey. In this way, it's not right to consider us in a different positioning. I'm saying it's not right to hold this discussion any longer. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit05spe0187par0241	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0187par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are two motions on the 76th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 76th draft of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Levent Gök Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Haydar Akar Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Rows 76 of the Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Mehmet Şandir Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0188par0020	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0187par0021	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0189par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0187par0023	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0190par0025	Mr. President, it's a blessed night, and congratulations to the Turkish nation of Islam, the Berat Kandili. We're negotiating a bill of justice on such a blessed night. Justice is of great importance in the lives of governments. Governments ruling with justice have grown, expanded, and have been able to incorporate their own values into universal human values, and they have been able to live up to those values in the human world. When he's out of justice, when he's out of justice, when he's starting to violate the principles of rights and law, then that state has gone to the point of shrinking, not being able to sustain the state. This is what we're seeing in the world these days. There are serious problems in geographeries, where governments have grown up in their time. The Ottoman Empire was such a state. Over a period of about six hundred years on three continents, at a time when the fastest means of communication were horses, many ethnicities were able to govern the masses, described as two-and-a-half nations, which differed on the basis of faith. The era of his rise was a time when Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, who conquered Istanbul, could stand trial before the Lady of Fatih. So it was a time when justice was raised, raised, judged in the presence of Sultan Mehmet, the Ottoman conqueror of the Ottoman Empire over the complaint of a Greek architect, regardless of religion, language, race, gender. There have been distortions in the Ottoman justice system; after a process that leads to the consulate courts and performs different practices for non-Muslims, the empire has also been disbanded dependent on injustice. Now, in his place, a fire boils over that land, a witch's pot is boiled, one of which is Iraq and Syria. The reason I've gone this far is that the Justice and Development Party, which has strayed from this style of governance, has to do with a number of gases such as the Sultan of the Middle East, the founder of the game, the leader of the world, and the result of these gases, today's issue in the most problematic area of the Ottoman geography in Syria, Iraq. My dear friends, Syria is a country in which different ethnicities, different belief groups, live fairly together during the Ottoman period, where they are in the process of intelligence management, they've been recommitted, they've been restrained, they've been restrained, they've been restrained, but it's because they can't be able to tap into them in two weeks, so that they've been helped by a political Myopic understanding, as a product of political blindness, and that they've even been helped by the terrorist organizations there, as a result of terrorism dynamics, and that they've been helped by a terrorist organization like Turkey. Now, he has been ruled by terror in the Syrian and Iraqi Turkmen region, which is defined by ISIS, where the Turkish government of the Republic of Turkey, the consulate, the Turkish land, has been raided by this terrorist organization, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is delivered without firing a single bullet. We'll continue this in our other motions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0191par0036	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 76th draft of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Ihsan Kokturk (Zonguldak) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0192par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0191par0044	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0193par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0191par0046	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0194par0049	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, I'm going to start with you, and I'm going to start with you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0191par0050	You're talking to me. You're talking to me.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0194par0051	Yeah, I'm talking to you. Tomorrow is the first month of the 301 workers we lost in Soma. Tomorrow is the first month of the 301 workers we lost after Soma's murder. I'm not wrong, the accident took place on the 13th month tomorrow, and, by chance, I'll say it's a coincidence that three of our fellow workers lost their lives in the mine in Şırnak, and our fellow workers lost their lives in the mine. When we look at a month like this, when we evaluate it, we see that the government has no activity except for the establishment of a research commission on mines in parliament. Again, AKP lawmakers, vice-presidents who are not district MPs and district MPs have gone and made some commitments in Soma. None of those commitments have been fulfilled in a month. The workers are being forced into the furnaces, and even the ones who haven't are starting to lose their wages. That's what we're dealing with. We've always shouted from this bench. We said it has political responsibility. You're still sitting in the ministry seat, and the Minister of Labour and Social Security is sitting in the chair again. You may not have made a mistake in this matter directly, but what are the ethical rules all over the world? When there's such a big accident, when there's killings, someone always assumes political responsibility and gives up their resignations. This is the right thing to do, and this is the right thing to do. A month later, the mine deaths continue in the mines, including one and two. Today, three miners were killed in Şırnak -- yesterday's accident. Friends, the mines in Turkey are really falling apart. There's no need to set up a research commission for that, there's no need for anything. It's built, it's true, but it's not necessary. We all know the reality and the truth, the conditions in the mines, the reality, the truth. Because of your relentless desire to earn money and the wrong energy policies you have implemented, by the time you come to power, the coal production of 43 percent of the coal has fallen to 28 percent. You thought you'd make more production by privatizing, redevans, renting, renting more imported coal; on the contrary, you started bringing more imported coals, and domestic production went so far back, and labor health and work safety measures went so far, because TKI was a direct buyer, and because it said that it would produce no matter how much coal it produces, it would also be forced to produce people and coal. They don't even get out of the coal mines before their shift is over. Now, the company that rents a coal mine has to do things to make money. Because you're giving away the coal mine at 70 lira average, or you're giving coal to the thermal plant at less than 14%. If he produces more, he'll win. And you encourage this production. Why? Because the energy deals you've made, because of your wrong choices in natural gas, the energy costs have risen rapidly, and you're selling electricity to citizens for 34-38 cents, selling the most expensive electricity in the world. The coal mines need immediate measures. For one thing, all mines must have what we call the PDKS system. A second feature -- no one's talking about it -- says: there were 50 sensors, 100 sensors, measuring carbon monoxide gas, reporting it to whom? There's an operator upstairs, he's setting off an alarm. If the operator doesn't report it down, if he's keeping the miner on the stove, then the plague is on you because it's not controlled, because it's not controlled. Because there's also a good chance that in another dimension, it's that it's that it's controlled. It's also possible that the computer programs they call computer programs will be able to play with the criteria to keep the miner in the oven with the changes that the employer will make with the password. Otherwise, it won't be able to make any more money. Actually, that's not the format for my speech, but while I've seen the Minister of Energy here, I'd like to remind you of that. We need to stop the mines, or even the production, as of now, so that we don't have to make any new losses, especially in order not to give new lives. After stopping production, workers' health and occupational safety experts, experts from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Department of Energy's experts have to go and take responsibility, the mines have to go into production. Look, the Minister of Labour and Social Security said we've closed hundreds of mines here. None of the ones they closed were registered mines, all mines on the run, all mines on the run. He closed the illegal mines in Zonguldakta and Soma, but they gave him licenses, redevanced leases... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...they didn't touch the mines they gave or rented in the redevans way.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0195par0062	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0194par0063	I need you to take immediate precautions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0195par0066	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. In Article 77 there are two motions, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 77 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 280. Added to item 2. At the end of the joke, we make a new judgment and propose that the whole be replaced by a new sentence. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 77. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0196par0086	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0195par0087	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0197par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0195par0089	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0198par0092	Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, our current Minister of Energy is here, and we'll have a few words for the Minister as we proceed from my previous speech to Mosul. Now, dear friends, there are two properties of the Musul-Kerkuk region where ISIS is loaded. One of them is the Turkmeneli region, a part of Turkey's families that came to Anatolia before the arrival of Turks. The other is the oil area. The terrorist organization's attack on the two regions directly related to Turkey's national interests as well as to the destruction of Turkish population's life and property security, as well as to the capture of our Turkish consulate building in Musul. Therefore, the government must present its presence on these three issues in a much more serious, much more determined way, and diplomacy, diplomacy, and negotiation, and arms, but surely the historical, national rights here must protect and preserve. Twenty-four hours and seven days of crisis, that's not gonna work. There are forces that send ISIS there. Contact the forces that sent ISIS there and hold them responsible for this outcome. Within that scope, oil is the primary target of those who sent ISIS there. The original owner of these oils is the Great Hakan Sultan Abdulhamid Khan, his private property. After Abdulhamid Khan's discovery of oil under the name of the British, Abdülhamid Khan took it into his own possession after he understood the value of it during the industrialization process. After the invasion of reign, the members of the Ottoman Dynasty were left hungry, Minister. Eventually, they struggled to obtain their property, their property, and their property. On the other hand, he was often defrauded by lawyers, and at times he faced very unfair situations in international courts. However, the value accepted by all international documents and all international rules, the right to property is sacred and under no circumstances involuntary. With action, then the relations between the British and the Republic of Turkey are official and state business, but I demand that you consider the property law of property, which will proceed to the descendants of Sultan Abdulhamid Khan, the very essence of the property, as Minister of Energy and Of Course Resources. Just as international law legitimised by the 1974 Cyprus Movement of Louisiana and the European Court of Human Rights of Turkey, which sentenced Turkey to millions of dollars in compensation, is based on ownership of property rights on the private property of Abdulhamid Khan in Mosul and Kerkuk. In this scope, I would like to say that we would like to support your efforts, all of you, in which Turkey and the Ottoman dynasty will be given back their rights to the oil of Mosul and Kerkuk internationally.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0199par0100	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 77 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5271 of the Penal Code 280. Added to item 2. At the end of the joke, we make a new judgment and propose that the whole be replaced by a new sentence. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0200par0107	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0199par0108	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0201par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0199par0110	Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0202par0111	Thank you. Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the motion we've made. I salute the High Council. The draft law aims to protect children who are basically our future, as a result of changes in sexual abuse against children. I'd like to remind you why this came up when the news of sexual abuse against children began to create an influx in society, when the victim's mental health had long been unanswered and the victim was a child. The final conclusion came to the agenda, Mr. Minister. This bill aims to prevent sexually violent crimes and protect children through increased punishments against sexual immunity. However, the general logic of the law is not focused on protecting children, but on the punishment of the perpetrator, not on preventive measures; the proposed changes are mistaken that the problem will be solved, not aimed at protecting the victim and preventing the crime, but by increasing or reducing the punishment. Unfortunately, the victim of sexual violence has not been treated with respect for his basic rights, without being reintroduced. To illustrate, in the increasing violence against women, in the deaths, despite protective measures, no measures have been taken is evidence of that. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if there is any legal arrangement for increasing violence against these women in particular, I have a proposal for Mr. Secretary and the relevant Commission. What right does this ex-wife, boyfriend, fiancé, take to herself that she still doesn't give up these practices despite such protective measures? Look, there's another thing that caught my attention on the bill. It is not clear what the expression means when it is processed by sudden action. This arrangement is highly suited to abuse, far from deterrent and encouraging. Such incidents often indicate that there are no witnesses, that there are no physical evidence, and that the crime was committed by sudden action means the victim's reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's another point in the bill that I've noticed, and I'd like to share it again. If forced marriage is being organised as a crime, the bill should be organised as a crime under the child's sexual abuse of a child, including the marriage of a child who is under the age of marriage, intercession of marriage, religious marriage, and the ceremony of marriage with this child. Dear lawmakers, I have another point in the bill, and I'd like to share it with you. Sexual violence is considered a disease. However, I would like to remind you that those who commit sexual acts of violence are fully responsible for their punishment. And I've just said, I'm not a lawyer, as a physician, it's my duty to remind you of these events as physicians in society. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to remind you again of the criminal investigation, prosecution, some of the incidents, and some of the negatives of the victims of sexual abuse. Look, the Head of Forensic Medicine and their units don't have the proper examination and equipment to evaluate children who are victims of sexual crime. Due to the excess of the institution's workload, the consequences and appointments are as serious as the challenges of bringing children from many parts of Turkey who are victims of abuse here and there. Proposal: I believe that the forensic examinations of children who are victims of this kind of sexual crime should be considered more regional areas. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have another major problem. I'd like to share the negatives that often occur in the light of the incident after the detection of child abuse crimes. The authorities are writing to the victim's home or school for the call. Taking the kid out of school, that's being done by cops in formal clothes, and it's making it look like the kid's being re-proclaimed. I thought you were supposed to protect the children here, protect the children from this public negativity. What you're doing is sending the police to school, sending the police home, writing official letters to the school, having the official police pick it up, leaving the child face to face with a new analyzing the victim's abuse. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] While you're implementing these, while you're restructuring, I'd like you to reconsider. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0125	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 78, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 78 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The 5271 Penal Code, envisioned to be replaced with Article 286. We propose that the words "e" and "g" in the clauses be removed from the text of matter. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Rows 78 of the Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0204par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0146	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0205par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0148	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0206par0149	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why did I try to answer the question Musul-Kerkuk? I'd like to talk now about the relations between ISIS (Islamic) and the terrorist organizations in Syria (Turkish) in the terrorist attack on Mosul and Kerkuk. Dear friends, Mr. Davutoglu, who led the State of Turkey's Foreign Ministry in Syria in the turmoil of the Great Middle Eastern Project in Libya, Tunisia, Egypt, as the global imperialism requested in Egypt, tried to prevent it, as France's alertness in Libya, and therefore he directly sided with the conflict in Syria, in which terrorist groups launched against the Esed regime. Although we had previously known efforts to persuade the Esed regime to democratise, the fact that these efforts were not accepted by Esed, that terrorist organisations were supported by Turkey, that they were given logistic support, that they were called to meetings in Turkey, that they would be equipped with tactical and strategic information and sent to meetings in Geneva. And that's where Al Nusra was in those encouraged terrorist organizations. Al Nusra is an extension of Al Qaeda, in Syria. The Ministry of Interior has been involved in enough work to give Hatay Governorate instructions to make it easier for Al Nusra militants, and in similar relations, terrorist organizations such as ISIS and their top executives have participated in efforts to bring them to Turkey and to be placed in some activities here, and 2,000 truckloads of supplies have been sent to Syria. Now, with this 2,000 truckloads of material, were they filled with peppers in Syria, filled with eggplants, or made of salads, or made of mortar, Kalashnikov shells and other weapons? Here's what happened yesterday and today on social media: we saw the sight of human beings with their heads separated from their bodies, showing the violence of ISIS. And ISIS is involved in a series of regulations in its invasion of Mosul, establishing a government that resets the rights and freedoms that human history has developed -- just like Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. Wasn't it obvious, my dear friends? I want to bring the question here. All this was bound to happen. I mean, you could tell by the name of this terrorist organization. He calls it lraq Damascus, the State of Islam, who knows no bounds. It exists both in Iraq and Syria. Their cells in Mosul have increased so much that an officer who works at our consulate is throwing a tweet. This ISIS doesn't leave sleep in this man. That's how much influence he's got on our consulate employee. If a consulate employee has become so afraid of ISIS, what has become of the people living in Mosul, and is there a moral responsibility, legal responsibility, and political responsibility for the State Department, which the Justice and Development Party has taken over in their situation? If so, it must be done in the account of conscience.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0151	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 78 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. The 5271 Penal Code, envisioned to be replaced with Article 286. We propose that the words "e" and "g" in the clauses be removed from the text of matter. Free Private (Manisa) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0207par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0159	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0208par0160	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0203par0161	The Manisa MP will speak on the motion, Mr. Free Private.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0209par0163	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I consider Mr. Taner Yildiz to be a great opportunity to be in the hall today, because I have mentioned it before, after seven days of the accident, seven months in the past, seven years and 10 years of AKP's loss to mining workers, the performance of Mr. Taner Star has been kept out of sight, and the principle of making it so invisible, the Prime Minister has suggested -- I have mentioned it before, that if no one thinks about it, Mr. Minister should have a few words on the agenda, as the cashier in Murathan Mungan's famous novel, as the girl in front of everyone's eyes -- if no one has ever thought about it. The minister made promises, shared the pain in Eynez. When the workers of the same businessman's Ancestors and Lights Bacaa didn't want to go underground, the Prime Minister promised that if necessary, we would pay the wages for three months or four months, but no one would have to go down there. The minister's word against the Prime Minister's, the subcontractor's word against his uncle's. There's no Prime Minister under the ground, and I'm under the ground. Later, wet signed notifications began to arrive. Mr. Minister came out and said, "Stop against them." Instead of saying it, yesterday, he made a statement: "No, Mr. Minister, to keep the man alive....... to all the workers in the Light and Horse Baasa, and the uncles forced them to go down to the mine." What you're saying isn't true, you're misleading the public. The finger of the Fedai Plane, which was forced into the House of Lights last week, was severed. What did you do about the bouncer? Yesterday, a fire broke out in the first standing, in the 52nd place, in the Ancestor's chimney; and there was a life market, and everyone was forced out. What did you do about it? But yesterday, you went with Mr. Prime Minister's wife, not showing what needed to be seen in Soma, but considering what was not to be seen. That's not true. You don't stand by the promise of the state to the miners. The commission is running a subcommittee study, and your group is only making a motion on Eynez. We suggest that the lights should include the Ancestor's Ba'aab. They refuse. You don't take initiative, you don't keep promises. Besides, hundreds of workers have two months left in the now closed Mining, and tens of workers are left with severance pay. The President of our Commission is in the hall, go to him, talk to the Commissioner. I'm warning you, Ali Kandemir in Mining, instead of the dynamite that needs to be controlled, the antigrizu is from both eyes because it's used regular dynamite instead of dynamite. His wife brought him in, sat him down. He cried with his eyes that didn't exist. He says: "Warning Mining didn't give me my compensation. One of my eye implants fell, the other one got infected. No one is looking at me. You will say to the subcommittee: What does the law say is that an employer pays in mines closed by the state; if he doesn't, the government pays. You can't say that he will go to his collection through the collection of state fees. Who are you protecting? You're protecting the warning. Who are you protecting? Today you're protecting the baron of the mine, which is the tomb of those 301 people, and then you're out there trying to take credit for your seven-day performance, which is not the right thing to do. Whatever we said, it's out. There's an uncle. We said, you denied it. The defibrillated megaphones would save lives. We said, "You denied it." We said there's a mazotian dozer underground, and you denied it. Come on, they're forcing the children to die. We said, you denied it. They're being dragged to the AKP rallies, boys. We said, "You denied it." Our commission has listened to all of these children, the stenographers are on the record. He explained the schedule for the AKP rally, kids, how much he's getting paid to go to the rally. It's on TBMM records now. Now, get out of here like a responsible person, at least do what you have to do here. True responsibility requires resignation, but instead of showing such a modernity, you cling to the chair. But we tell you, there are promises made by Salih Kapuz, promises made by you, saying hello from our Prime Minister, and saying, "Leave this sitting act to everyone; you asked for one, we give three." He said, "Give us five Assembly days." It's obvious where we're going. There's a human shame going on up there. Intervene, let everyone see that the word of this state is a reward. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0171	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, I have a statement to make. Of course, it's not my place to protect the Minister. He has the ability to protect himself. However, we are now discussing Bill 592 in rows.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0211par0175	We're conscious, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0176	The talks need to be relevant under Article 66. Of course, Soma is a great pain, but in regard to this, the motion for the geneorization has been made regarding the Minister. A research commission was also set up.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0211par0177	You didn't warn me on 80 counts, Mr. President! 80 counts, you didn't warn me. That's not possible!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0178	Of course, there will be a reckoning, of course, if anyone is guilty, if anyone is negligent, it will be done accordingly. I'm just asking you to stay on point.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0212par0179	Mr. President, if I may have your word, I'd like your word.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0180	Here you go. Sorry!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0213par0181	Mr. President, yes, you're right, the MPs must not leave the matter. We'd like you to give the same warning to the ministers. When they don't answer the questions we've given them correctly, when they answer irrelevantly, and once you warn the ministers, then...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0182	I'll do it when I can.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0213par0183	We'll see about that.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0184	I'll do it when I can.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0213par0185	You've warned the MPs countless times, and I've never seen you warn the ministers.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0186	I'll do it when the time comes, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0213par0187	Once you warn the ministers, we'll take you seriously.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0188	And if I've been negligent, I'll take care of it from now on.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0213par0189	Okay.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0214par0190	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0191	Here, are you going to make a statement?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0214par0192	Yes, I'll explain.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0193	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0214par0194	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0215par0195	Who picked on you, sir?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0210par0196	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0214par0199	Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to begin by welcoming your delegation. First, yesterday, we were back in Soma, where we visited our families. Now, I'm going to say one thing in the General Assembly -- in order to get him into custody -- especially when he's on the stand with our Manisa MPs, and when he's on the stand with us, I'm going to write down other things he said.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0216par0201	Are you saying that about me? Tell me right now, tell me what I'm saying differently, right now.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0214par0202	Now, we're discussing whether or not our brothers and sisters were there. I said something to the press yesterday, and if they don't come under the right conditions there, they won't open. It's not being manufactured in those furnaces right now. Now, I'll tell you more, if we're convinced that those stoves don't come to certain conditions, that if we're convinced of them, along with the inspection boards, with the job inspectors, we can shut down those furnaces, about where the accident took place, if that's the solution, we can do it right away, we can do it there, we can do it there, too. One has 6 million tons of coal, one has 200,000 tons of coal, none of which we care. It has to do with the responsibilities of this, we're dealing with labor health and occupational safety -- I'm telling you, in order to get it into custody -- we might be able to clear things up there. After that, we'll all discuss it together again. Telling those stoves to open is like telling them to open is a grave mistake that was just made about Şırnak. Fugitive furnaces, banned stoves, don't work here. Signs have been put up, notices have been made... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After that, it's called the storekeeper. Guys, you're a runaway...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0217par0206	Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0218par0207	Mr. Secretary, am I going to supervise the illegal furnaces?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0217par0208	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to extend it one more minute. If you'll accept...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0219par0209	If you'll excuse me... this is important.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0217par0210	Here you go. I'll extend it one more minute.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0219par0212	Hey, guys, if a congressman's defending the illegal furnaces here, I'm sorry, it's not gonna happen in any way. Three miners died in the syringe. It's been tried. January, no registration. No business here. It's been said that the governor's office has been issued notifications from the special administration of the province, which have been told in its place personally, that it is dangerous, that it cannot be worked here, that it is not even licensed. There is not another stove in the Şırnak area, except for thermal power plants, which are currently licensed. You are now saying that three miners died there. You say that it was closed, sealed, and then it was an accident. Friends, please pay attention to what you're defending. Now I'm going to say again, we can close those two stoves. Good evening.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0220par0216	Mr. Secretary, you have no idea what I'm talking about!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0217	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0219	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0220	While the Minister was responding to me, he stood on the stand and said: "There is another word spoken to our faces on the stand. Let him go to the accounts. He accuses me completely.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0223par0221	I didn't name names. If you think you're right for those definitions, so be it!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0222	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0223	He's completely accusing me. I want to exercise my right to answer.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0223par0224	If you think those definitions are right for you, that's fine. I didn't name names.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0225	Now, look, I listened very well because I knew there'd be talk from back to back, and I listened very well, Mr. Secretary didn't point.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0226	Other than here, it says to our faces.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0227	Excuse me... excuse me... that was a general statement.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0224par0228	Do you fit that description?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0229	That I didn't...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0221par0230	But you...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0231	I didn't mean the free special.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0225par0232	Do you fit those descriptions?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0233	I didn't mean the free special.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0225par0234	Then why are you offended by yourself?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0235	I didn't mean the free special.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0225par0236	No, why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0222par0237	You're a mufter, then.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0226par0238	Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0227par0239	I mean, the research commission is now in place, Ozgur, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0226par0240	He said he didn't point it at you, he gave you a general definition.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0228par0241	No, let him say that I will give up, that I didn't mean free private. Let him say that.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0226par0242	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0228par0243	I've never done anything like this in my life, other than that, from there. I didn't mean "free special." Let him say "Free special."
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0226par0244	All right, come on. I promise you two minutes. But, please, don't cause any more bullying, Mr. Special, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0228par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. I am ashamed that a minister of the Republic of Turkey is in such a situation. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0229par0249	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0230par0250	Free, stop politics!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0231par0251	Dear Private, please...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0232par0252	He uses a phrase like this, and he comes, and it's clear to him that there's another word on our face, other than the bench. He says, "I didn't mean you."
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0233par0253	No, do you fit that description?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0232par0254	If I said anything to your face other than the bench, and if I said anything else to your face, explain this. Otherwise, you'd be helpless. You don't enter that description. If I didn't want a word, I'd have that accusation on me. We also asked you, "Where the accident took place, you have your word about the horse's chimney and the lights." The subcommittee doesn't keep your promise, doesn't keep the Prime Minister's promise. You don't stand on that stand and say two lines, you make accusations that make the mind go haywire. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0233par0256	All right, give me time, I'll give you time. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0234par0257	Please don't talk to me in person, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0232par0258	So -- I asked you a question, you answered for an hour -- answer this: Nine people in the Bedouins of Kahramanmarash say, "Give the bones of my son under the ground." Now you're saying that I'm the guarantee that all those responsible for this mining accident will be punished, that the investigation will go where the investigation will go. My brother, the 301 lives who died here. So, nine lives in the desert, right? You're applying to the Attorney General of the Republic to answer in front of justice, so that the people responsible for them may come out, and you're writing, and you're writing, and they're not being investigated.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0235par0259	They're being investigated.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0232par0260	Answer it, and answer it. He's got two blind eyes, two lines of editing, and he's been running away from everyone for eight months, but he's still running mines with your licenses, and you're not moving a muscle. It's shameful, it's shameful, it's sinful.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0236par0262	You be honest, be honest, first of all.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0232par0263	You be honest! You be honest! Stand up for yourself!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0237par0264	Oh, come on! You're doing politics!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0238par0265	I mean, it's not politics over death.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0239par0266	Why don't you give me the warrant for the investigation at Soma?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0237par0267	Why don't you tell me?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0240par0268	Of course, you'll give Soma the permission to investigate.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit06spe0241par0269	I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of Turkey's Major Assembly's 102nd Union. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0242par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0006	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0242par0007	Mr. President, a moment ago -- before the minister sat down -- of course -- I stated that three miners were killed in Şırnak, that there were no proper inspections, but the Minister said, "You're defending the escape mines on my word." He said, "It's such an accusation."
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0008	What did he say?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0242par0009	You are defending the fugitive mines. He said, he made such an accusation about us. I didn't defend any illegal mines. I want to respond. He doesn't know what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0011	Now, Mr. Akar, for bullying, we've changed the session, that's the verdict, but I'll promise you when I close it, but I don't want any tension to happen again. If you'd like, I'd like to explain your position for a minute.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0242par0012	No, Mayor, I haven't been tense up until now.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0013	No, you will. I'm not saying it, I'm not saying it, I'm not saying it. I'll give you 60, give you a minute, give me an explanation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0243par0016	He's a very kind friend of ours.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0017	Yeah, he's nice, really. Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0244par0021	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says we're defending illegal mines. In fact, what I meant was that the Minister of Labor and Social Security, who came from this bench, said that he had closed more than 100 euros of mines, more than that. I looked at which mines were closed by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and the mines were closed. True, but there was no study of the licensed mines, or study of the mines -- as we have seen in Soma, as we have seen in the same examples -- and a study was conducted on the earth, and there was no study of the mines. This isn't the Minister's first job. He accused our free friend or accused our friends here. He's accused our group of genes that we've given about the Minister before. The minister does the same thing, he does the demagogue whenever he gets on the stand, and he tries to make it sound like we're going to tell him something. I find it all wrong, and I don't think it's the chair. This chair isn't that sweet, so it shouldn't be so sweet that the Minister won't leave it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0023	Thank you, Mr. Akar. There are three motions on Article 79: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 79 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5275 and Article 16 of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Protection. In addition to the clause, we propose and provide the addition of the "slow, concrete and obvious" declaration. Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 16 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner regarding the execution of Penal Code number 5275, which has been replaced by Article 79 in the framework of its 592 rows. Adil Zozani Halil Aksoy Selma River Erol Dora Kemal Aktas İdris Baluken "MEDDE 16-1) The execution of the sentence of the prisoner who is suffering from mental illness will be put behind him and the prisoner will be taken into protective care and treatment at the health institution stated in Article 57 of the Turkish Penal Code until he recovers. It's pretty much time spent at the health centre in prison. (2) In other diseases, the execution of the sentence is carried out in the sections reserved for prisoners of official health institutions. However, even in this case, if the execution of the prison sentence is a clear threat to the prisoner's life, the sentence of the prisoner will be put back until his execution is better. (3) The decision to leave behind is made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, where full-fledged state hospitals, education and research hospitals are executed on the report conducted by the health boards of university hospitals. A full-fledged state hospital, education and research hospital, where the sentence can be treated at the execution institution, is ordered by an independent medical committee outside the hospital, in the case of a convicted or close to the third degree of the report given by the university hospital. The decision to drop it will be delivered to him and his legal representative by specifying obligations that the prisoner will be subject to. The location of the prisoner's release period is reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office concerning him or his legal representative. The prisoner's health situation is being examined according to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office or at his request or at the request of its request, according to the time specified by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, if there is no time in the health report, according to the one-year period of the joke. According to the results of the examination, it is decided by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to withdraw it, whether it will continue to return it. At the request of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, the measures to monitor the prisoner will be carried out by law enforcement and officers at the scene of the declaration. In this joke, the decision to drop it in violation of written obligations is lifted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, who made the decision. This decision can be applied to the execution judge. (4) The execution of a prison sentence is set aside for women who have not passed a year since they were pregnant or were born. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 79th edition of the current 592 Rows Numbered Bill. We offer and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0245par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0055	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0246par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0241par0057	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0247par0058	Mr. President, before we recess, due to the discussion of our mine martyrs in Soma, on this blessed night, I once again ask for the grace of God to our mine martyrs who have been buried in the ground. I'd like to express that we expect the government to fulfill its commitments from the moment of disaster. Dear lawmakers, I've been in touch with incidents around Mosul and Kerkuk, including the motions I had previously been promised, and I'm back in your presence to collect it. Dear friends, I told you there are two main reasons why ISIS has turned to Mosul and Kerkuk. One of them is the oil area, and the other is the Turkmen presence there. I also spoke of the responsibilities of protecting the rights and interests of the Republic of Turkey, protecting the rights and interests of the Turks, and taking preventative measures to defend the rape of our consulate. Dear friends, the arrival of Thursday is known from Wednesday. There is a saying in our language. It was clear from days before ISIS was to go there. I want to share with you the resources of ISIS to go there. First of all, there's the National Intelligence Agency. The elements of the National Intelligence Agency needed to identify terrorist activities in that region and their targets on the Turkmen and their efforts towards our rights and interests. Minister of Interior Mr. Efkan Ala, as he said in his speeches, we've become so powerful that now we've taken out the third countries, instead we've become able to receive direct information and establish a global intelligence organization. Why was this organization not aware of ISIS's activities, and why was it not previously able to detect this great attack, this terrible attack? Let's just say MIT couldn't do it. The MET couldn't do it, but the consulate's ambassadors warned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about this, but the appropriate responses were not given, the necessary measures were not taken. Moreover, Turkish Armed Forces have intelligence contacts in Iraq. These intelligence contacts, despite Mr. Efkan Ala, received information from intelligence points from different countries in that region, collect it, deliver it to relevant authorities, pass it on. However, no anti-terror attack has been conducted in connection with ISIS. And thirdly, there are companies in between, companies telling us what's so bad. The State Department is still asleep or the authorities are still asleep. This company has employees, they warn you, go back to sleep. There are auction sources for Turkey, at least there are Turkmen in that area; they're sleeping. For example, I received phone information from three Turkmen today, and I called someone who was a friend of mine from the school year to confirm this information, and I said, "Is this true?" Turns out it's all true one by one. I mean, ISIS came according to that. The religious approach of the Maliki government also affected ISIS's expansion of terrorist resources. Now, am I the only one who knows all this? No, a lot of people do. Mr. Sinan Oğan explained to you from this stage before this happened that our consulate is surrounded, and he said to take precautions. Do some of your friends, Sinan Okan....do you have any madness?..... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, Sinan Oğan, have come to us with this grave event, which Sinan Oğan was right. And the way out of here is a policy that protects our national and spiritual values, our historical values, our rights. It doesn't work with political myopism.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0248par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0249par0071	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0248par0072	You want roll call... I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, first of all, for roll call. Mr. Vural, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Özkkçı, Mr. Adan, Mr. Ugly, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Batum, Mr. Preger, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Longsırmak, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Basesgioğlu. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 16 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner regarding the execution of Penal Code number 5275, which has been replaced by Article 79 in the framework of its 592 rows. "MEDDE 16-1) The execution of the sentence of the prisoner who is suffering from mental illness will be put behind him and the prisoner will be taken into protective care and treatment at the health institution stated in Article 57 of the Turkish Penal Code until he recovers. It's pretty much time spent at the health centre in prison. (2) In other diseases, the execution of the sentence is carried out in the sections reserved for prisoners of official health institutions. However, even in this case, if the execution of the prison sentence is a clear threat to the prisoner's life, the sentence of the prisoner will be put back until his execution is better. (3) The decision to leave behind is made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, where full-fledged state hospitals, education and research hospitals are executed on the report conducted by the health boards of university hospitals. A full-fledged state hospital, education and research hospital, where the sentence can be treated at the execution institution, is ordered by an independent medical team outside the hospital, in the case of a prisoner or close to the third degree of the report given by the university hospital. The decision to drop it will be delivered to him and his legal representative by specifying obligations that the prisoner will be subject to. The location of the prisoner's release period is reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office concerning him or his legal representative. The prisoner's health situation is being examined according to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office or at his request or at the request of its request, according to the time specified by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, if there is no time in the health report, according to the one-year period of the joke. According to the results of the examination, it is decided by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office to withdraw it, whether it will continue to return it. At the request of the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, the measures to monitor the prisoner will be carried out by law enforcement and officers at the scene of the declaration. In this joke, the decision to drop it in violation of written obligations is lifted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, who made the decision. This decision can be applied to the execution judge. (4) The execution of a prison sentence is set aside for women who have not passed a year since they were pregnant or were born. Fair Zozani (True) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0250par0092	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0248par0093	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0251par0094	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0248par0095	Mr. Idris Baluken will speak, Mr. Bingol MP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0252par0097	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate you all on Berat Kandili, and all of our people on Berat Kandili, and wish you all a blessing. I'd like to present a review of the ruling party here on the stand. We're always talking about respect for social values, dispossession, but I don't think we need to tell you what Berat Kandili means for our religion, for our faith, for our social life. On such an important day, I feel that spending time here at night with such an offer of a law so far from spirituality is a result of the stateization and impotence that you've been caught in. I'd like to express that you should have a different attitude about this. If you haven't done that, let's do a good deed on this Berat Kandili night. Dear friends, while you were just reading the friend motion, I'm sure most of you didn't listen to the Presidential Court, but look, there's nothing you'd object to in this motion. We're talking about the right to life and health of sick prisoners, patients, and patients. There are four clauses, one of the four, about the death penalty of those who are suffering from mental illness. What kind of MP has a conscience to argue with that? It's an arrangement about the right to treat people who have schizophrenia, severe psychiatric illness, who can't take care of themselves. Article 2 is a provision that stipulates that the execution of a prison sentence should be associated with the degree of illness. Again, there is a provision in Article 3 of the provision that reports received from state hospitals and full-fledged university hospitals are considered sufficient. Article 4 is about delaying the prison sentence for people who were pregnant or who had just given birth during prison time, friends. I, for one, don't think there's any substitute here who would have a conscience against these four clauses. We've said in our previous talks, there are statements from Mr. President, there are statements from the Prime Minister, there are statements from friends we've discussed with cabinet members, they're asking for an arrangement. Now, we don't understand why the Commission opposes this, why the Minister opposes it. If they're against it, come, do a good deed for the first time, use your fingers on this motion, where only 230 heavy patients, 600 chronic patients who could die at any time, sign up for a good deed. May this blessed night, at least, have such a consequence in this House. We need to get out of this position, dear friends, by looking into the mouth of the group's vice presidents. Look, a few examples, we're always giving examples: Two months ago, Aram Whiteface died because he didn't have a cure for severe F-type disease. At the time of his heart attack, there was no ambulance at Sırıkkale Type F Prison, and by the time the ambulance reached the prison, the patient's life right to the life of this friend, who had been entrusted to the state was sadly destroyed. At the same time, look, there's Sincan Prison right under our noses, there's a patient named Murat Ekin, who has just been diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, small-celled lung cancer from Numune Hospital two weeks ago, and is expected to live for six months, until he does these procedures with Forensics and bureaucratic procedures. Chemotherapy has started, immune system is paralyzed, body is open to the focus of all infections, but incompatible prison remains in ward conditions. In the same prison, Huseyin Yildiz, cirrhosis patient, gets a liter of water every ten days, friends every ten days. I mean, even when we're talking about all this, we're really having a hard time. There's nothing you can disagree with in this motion. Social peace, the process of resolution, I'm going through all of this, and this is a very important issue that we're talking about that is too sacred to be a subject of any political negotiation, too important to show that we have the right to live. So I repeat, we expect all of you to support this motion. Once again, I congratulate you all on your lamps.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0253par0110	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 79 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5275 and Article 16 of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Protection. In addition to the clause, we propose and provide the addition of the "slow, concrete and obvious" declaration. Bedii Suheyl Batum (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0254par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0253par0118	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0255par0119	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0253par0120	Mr. Süheyl Batum will speak on the motion, Eskişehir MP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0256par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, dear friends, we met here at 3:30 a.m., you will remember the ombudsman, the public inspector's bill. We discussed the third package of judgments, the fourth one at midnight again, at four in the morning. We talked about human rights, Turkey's basic issues, the bag of laws on many issues, after midnight, in the morning, we talked about it. We don't have friends, we've asked for roll call, we've gone in, we've gone out again, we've seen each other at midnight, at 3:30 in the morning, at 4:00 in the morning. No one heard, no one listened, no one knew. When no one heard about the problems, and when no one could, we solved the problems. Now we've brought in this law. Again, dear friends, today -- everyone -- the Berat Kandili. We sat on this blessed night, we really did our job, do we say we made a good law? No. You've brought in the immediate process of judgment. We said, it's not an immediate trial for the human rights of the government, it's a merchant state... why? Well, we only brought it in tenders, we brought it in publicization transactions, we brought it in for sales under the Tourism Advocacy Act. What about other transactions? We didn't. Two, did the Minister say here yesterday? Sixty days, he used to say in the court. Look, he... he even thought we'd brought it to the young man's question in thirty days. Now, Mr. Secretary, I believe, 60 days have been expected to apply for counsel in the past, and now 30 days are expected, look, we've moved it up. He doesn't think so. So we're hiding what we're doing here, what we're doing. We said we've reconstructed the Supreme Court in this law and we're still arguing in the same way. Again, we have brought Bekir Bozdağ, the law of saving Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, to show the 277th article here -- we said it yesterday. We said, "Do whatever you want with the investigation, you can do anything you want." You can call, you can threaten, nothing happens. Don't do it after the trial starts. And we sat here in Berat Kandili, and sometimes we ran here and joined the roll call, and we said, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we did a great job. Yes, we did a great job, we saved Bekir Bozdağ. But the other 75 million, where is the rest? Dear friends, we've always said this, it's always been a tradition. We said it when we were doing four judgment packets. We said, "Will men be imprisoned for five years, six years, and seven years?" No one looked. Then Sadullah Ergin said, "We will do it, we will do it, the time will come. We have come to this day." Now that we've made this law, you're doing it. Look, this is how we use it, we accept it. Dear friends, poor sin, there's a victim in Turkey that everyone knows about. People were tried with false evidence, convicted with false evidence, fake. Will Turkish law accept false evidence? Where, where, we have two motions, where is it? I assure you, a coven like this -- I asked my friends -- my dear friend Turgut Dibek said something like this in the morning talks -- I said: was it always like this, 20, 19? You come run, raise your hand, lower your hand, the people who were the victims of all Turkey -- our dear brother, Ozgur too -- the people in Soma, those victims, those who were imprisoned for five years, those who were arrested with false evidence, let's make a law to save Bekir Bozdağ. Oh, that's nice! Good luck with the Berat Kandili.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0257par0132	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0256par0133	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0258par0134	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 80, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 80 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 105/A of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures, envisioned to be replaced with Article 5275. We propose and propose that the word, for example, be replaced by the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or the meaning of the word, or Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0259par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0258par0146	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0260par0147	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0258par0148	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk will be speaking on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0261par0149	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 80. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, social needs require that legal arrangements be made, made obligatory. The law actually exists to satisfy social needs. It is unacceptable for the law to remain static in the face of the rapid development of society. Now, as Parliament, we actually -- since 2007 as a congressman -- have always brought laws to solve the problems of the judiciary, but we haven't been able to solve the problems of the judiciary. In fact, as we couldn't solve the problems of the judiciary, Parliament couldn't even solve the problem of its own concern. As he entered the 24th term, eight MPs of this Parliament entered as prisoners. We argued for days, we argued for months, we couldn't solve the arrest problem. The European Court of Human Rights found that Turkey has problems stemming from the institution of imprisonment and caused the rights violations of these problems, condemning Turkey many times to compensation, but again we ignored it as a political institution. In fact, political power has made legal arrangements only to protect itself or its supporters, to secure them, to ensure it, to make constitutionally legal arrangements; it has not made legal arrangements to eliminate the issues of rights violations other than its own, and has set it as a problem of the judiciary. If, my dear friends, on the wall of this Parliament, government is a nation that is unconditional and unconditional. If the nation accepts one of the organs of its sovereignty as a legislature, then the legislature must solve its own problem. The MP couldn't solve his arrest, but the Constitutional Court solved his arrest. Again, now there's a convicted congressman in there. This Parliament should have solved the matter of the death of that convicted MP leaving the parliament at the end of the term, but it never solved it, it refused to solve it. Because the dominant political understanding that holds Parliament under control, as I said from the very beginning, is still in prison today because there is an adversarial understanding. I'm talking about Engin Alan. This could have been solved in a very simple way. I mean, a elected MP could have been arrested -- especially in the 2011 elections -- that a temporary clause would not be placed -- and if his sentence was finalized, he could have been sentenced to the end of the term, a legal arrangement would have been made here, but it wasn't done, and Engin Alan is still there. The main problem of the country today is that we haven't internalized the legal state. The legislature is actually under the jurisdiction of the executive body, while the laws adopted by the legislative body are not considered by the judicial body. The judges and prosecutors, who are charged with following the rules of law, challenge the legislature, are completely arbitrary. On the other hand, there are constant fights between execution and judgment. The administration, on the one hand, wants to take control of the judiciary. The most typical concrete indicator of this is the Prime Minister's statement that sees the separation of forces as an obstacle to the judiciary. On the other hand, the judiciary sometimes tries to manage and control living. Thus, within such an environment, the greatest task falls to the legislature. It is not possible for the legislative body to solve these events by leaning on its own execution. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0262par0157	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 81: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 81 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 106 of the Law on Penalty Number 5275 and the Execution of Security Protection. Article 3. After the first sentence of the joke, we propose and provide the addition of the word........ of the word..... Jesus Sky Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Law number 592 is 81. In the matter, we would like to request that the public be replaced as useful. S. Nevzat Korkmaz Oktay Vural Faruk Bal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0263par0176	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0262par0177	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0264par0178	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0262par0179	Mr. Celal Adan will speak on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0265par0181	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I congratulate you all on your lamps, and I pray to God that this beautiful night of light may be a little more just for the Minister of Justice. Dear lawmakers, we've discussed some issues here concerning the Ministry of Justice. As the children of a great nation who led the family of humanity in particular of justice, it is unfortunate that the Justice and Development Party's understanding of itself above Turkey, when we should be here today to vote on every change of justice. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the conditions Turkey is in today, we are facing a truly embarrassing period. When the Marmara ship was sunk, where our citizens were shot in the head, I spoke here. On that day, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, Erzurum, was reading the Istiklal Anthem, and no one would be able to take a step without us knowing it. A week later, ten days later, the Jews and the Greeks continued their search for oil in the Mediterranean, their statements from the Turkish Republic's Prime Minister's Istiklal March were lost in Erzurum. Now, look, we're dealing with a fact, valued lawmakers. If you cannot protect the flag at a military headquarters in Diyarbakır, how will you protect the ambassador in Mosul? What have you, Justice and Development Party, done to Turkey by conflicting with the will of the Turkish state that exists out of nowhere, and not to question it? How can you, Dear Minister of Justice, members of the Honourable Justice Commission, determine justice in Turkey, based on a period when we have faced the most dishonorable process in the history of the republic, such as December 17, 25th? How long will you continue to mock these people? Here's what injustices, lack of horizons, lack of vision are doing to us in Mosul. An organization mocks Turkey. But you told this nation to lie about Iraq, Syria, and a will that shaped all the Middle East. Well, aren't you ashamed today? They told me about Soma. We gave them 301 martyrs. Because of this 301 martyrs, not a single officer was removed from his post, but only on December 17th was assigned 8,000-9,000 police officers because of a theft, a shamelessness. Today's appointment at the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors is clear. Is that what you're going to do for justice? If you, very clearly in the past, had a population of 11 million, half blind, half lame, half unsanitary, the will of the Turkish state, when you opened the pages of history today and read the wishes of those who built that day's Turkish state, if it were a thousand years later, when we taught our children the will of that day, they would never challenge Mosul. You, the Justice and Development Party's ruling, conflicted with the basic values of the republic, with the will of the state. What is Turkish nationalism? There is only one thing that comes out of this nation's mouth: Flags come out. But you said, as a result of a negotiation with separatist elements, I've taken Turkish nationalism to the bottom of the eyes of both the separatists and the separatists. You said, "I've put Kurdish nationalism under my feet." I went out and talked to him here that day. One of you is the Chief Constable, the governor. When you look at the interrogations of members of the PKK's terrorist organization, you get one statement: no language, no culture, one thing comes out: we will form independent Kurdistan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And that independent Kurdistan thing, it's a way to bring down that flag, it's a way to bring down that flag.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0266par0191	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0265par0192	The power you created in Turkey, where the Turkish flag was taken down, has unfortunately left Musul to bow your head.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0266par0193	Mr. Adan, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0265par0194	Dear lawmakers, this is the time of the greatest injustice in the history of the Republic. One day, of course, you will pay the price for the conflict with the founding will of the Turkish state. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0266par0197	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 81 of the Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5275 of the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Protections 106. Article 3. After the first sentence of the joke, we propose and provide the addition of the word........ of the word..... Kamer Young (Tunceli) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0267par0203	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0266par0204	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0268par0205	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0266par0206	Mr. Kamer Young will speak on the motion, Congressman Tunceli.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0269par0208	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 81 of the proposed law. My respects to all of you. Yes, it is the night of the blessed lamp, but the night of the lamp is the night of beauty, of justice, of law, of decency, of decency. Now, these are all very beautiful people's ambitions to humanity, but you can't say these things without having them at work. Now, dear lawmakers, look, we're looking at a package of judgments. In fact, our proposal has been a revision for a period of time. I mean, it doesn't matter, it could be a certain amount of time, but it doesn't matter to you because you don't value anything more than it does to you. Now, we've been listening here for days. In Turkey, you destroyed something called judgment. Here, Bekir Bozdağ... when I was giving a speech here earlier, I said, "Look, you and Ahmet have both finished imam-hating, and then you've finished law school, so you should have more sense of justice than the other people who have finished other normal law school, you should have more sense of justice -- you should be telling the truth and the truth of justice" but you're doing the opposite. Sure, why does he open it? Because what if the judge rejects the trial of Bekir? The next day, he'll die somewhere else. Now, my friends, look, the other day here, they asked Bekir something. They said: "You are not acting on the decision of the judge." The simplest of all, Sejdişehir has decided to stop the trial at the Alyminium Facility. The Oymapınar Dam cost $1 billion, and they brought $7 billion, $370 million they gave to Mehmet Cengiz. And they gave away the Oymapınar Dam for free. There's a decision to stop the executive. Sir, the decision is impossible to implement. Why is it impossible, Mr. Bekir? Why would the Oymapınar Dam have anything to do with the government? Friends, the People's Bank: The General Manager of the People's Bank gave a company $575 million in loans and sank. His subsidiary also lent him $35.5 million, and on December 17th and December 25th, this incident came up, and, well, you're saving it. In December 17th and December 25th, the money from the warehouse under the home of the children of Recep Erdogan was found by the ministers caught red-handed. Bekir is calling the Attorney General, Adana Attorney General. He says, "Sir, change the prosecutor, sir, destroy the documents." Yeah, a guy like that.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0270par0214	Congressman, don't bother with the character, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0269par0215	Well, now, don't talk too much and now...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0271par0217	Hey, hey, be smart, hey! You're saying I lost the case.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0270par0218	This is my first invitation to you. - I'm telling the truth here. I'm expressing corruption over there.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0271par0220	Behave yourself, will you? Beautiful man...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0270par0221	Please...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0222	If such a person calls the district attorney, prosecutors in a country and says, "Wahu, cover up these thefts, corruption."
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0270par0223	I'm giving you my second invitation, so please get to the point.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0224	How does this person get justice in here? How can he establish such justice?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0273par0225	Behave yourself, will you?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0226	For him, you destroyed justice in Turkey. You're bringing in this law... Friends, look, there's legislation and judicial activity in Turkey. Now, you're running a law enforcement operation. With this, in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, in the Supreme Court, you remove the general secretaries -- which should be done by walking -- and you form a recommittee. It's not like that...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0273par0228	Did you lose the case, the case?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0229	You're suspending all bureaucrats except the undersecretary of national training. The President of the Constitutional Court is to blame. You can't bring such a law if the president of the Constitutional Court denies such laws and considers them invalid. Of course, you found it your way, a Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0273par0231	What about the case, the case?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0232	However, you can't maintain administrative savings and management savings. And as soon as this law is enforced, you will reorganise the Supreme Court, the State, where you will bring those who will decide according to your will. There's no such thing as justice, there's no law, there's no Parliament. Look, these laws that you've made here today will come to your face as a painting of shame.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0273par0234	Did you lose the case, the case?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0272par0235	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0274par0236	For God's sake, he's posting it to everyone!
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0275par0239	Congressmans, I'm going to do a procedure, I haven't voted yet. I've invited you to come to the point twice during your conversation.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0276par0241	What didn't I get to?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0275par0242	You didn't, and you insulted me.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0276par0243	I'm gonna...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0275par0244	In the Civil Code, it is clear what to do against the insult, but I will not apply it. In spite of my two invitations, I'd like to propose that you refrain from discussing the subject in this merger to the General Assembly's play: those who accept... those who don't accept...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0277par0245	You didn't get his defense.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0276par0246	I'll make a defense.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit07spe0275par0247	In this merger, you will not talk about it. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit08spe0275par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of Turkey's 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. On Article 81, I submit to you the motion of the Tunceli MP Kamer Young and his friends:
tbmm-2014-06-12sit08spe0278par0009	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit08spe0275par0010	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0275par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the 81st article was not enough. Now I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0279par0008	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0280par0009	Mr. President, I made a promise.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0275par0010	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0280par0011	I'm making a request for a statement regarding the procedure just now.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0275par0012	Your position or the podium?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0280par0013	On the stand...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0275par0014	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0280par0017	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, a congressman can criticize a minister's call to the undersecretary in a case in the course of an investigation, which is his natural right. Mr. Young also criticised them from this bench. But there's a place I don't agree with, and I'm telling him from there that it wasn't good for him to call you Bekir, and to call you Mr. President, you don't speak. It wasn't good for Congress. I don't accept it, and I don't accept it when I'm there, and I don't accept it when I'm here...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0281par0020	I'll take it.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0280par0021	I don't accept it in front of the media. That's not true. In return, you went to limit a promise, and you took a vote in the House. Mr. President, it's candle night. The tension here, without that, without a disciplinary procedure, without a word constraint, without hurting each other, without offending each other, without hurting Mr. Young, without restricting his rights, without restricting his right to you -- and as vice president of the group -- I think if we find a middle course, we won't hurt each other in the evening of the candle. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0282par0024	Thank you, Mr. Slim. I have no right to interrupt an MP here, I have no authority; although I have the right and authority to intervene in the freedom of speech, the freedom of expression of the MP, is highly contrary to my principles. Of course, there should be no hurtful words, Mr. Slim, not to be insulted, as you say, no one should hurt anyone while they're working here. Thank you. I take it this incident didn't happen on the night of the candle, and I say we get back to our work.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0283par0026	But, Mr. President, you can't just pretend it didn't happen. Mr. President, are you...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0284par0027	So we're assuming it didn't happen.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0283par0028	Just a minute, sir... You, now, voted. Now, look, according to Article 66...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0285par0030	Mr. Young, Mr. Group Vice President has spoken of this, and I have answered. Please don't take too long. There are two motions in Article 82: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 82 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5275 of the Law on Execution of Penalty and Security Protections 108. Article 7. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "fifteen days" be replaced by "one month." Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Omar Suha Aldan Jesus Gök Dilek Akagün Yilmaz The 82nd draft of the 592th row bill. Article 5275 under Article 108. Article 8. Because of the crime mentioned in his joke, we propose that his testimony be changed to ▪ because of the crime. Ali Öz Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Şandir S. Nevzat Don't Fear Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0286par0048	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0285par0049	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0287par0050	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0285par0051	Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0288par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, after 17 December and 25 December corruption issues, a sense of parallel began. Adeta AKP is suffering from symmetry. He's always tried to create a parallel from the bird that flies in the air to the ant that crawls on the ground. Of course, that's the term AKP patented. He's almost recently given the matter of lowering the flag in Diyarbakir to parallel understanding, as well as the occupation in Mosul. Dear friends, the parallel is that there are two planes, from the beginning to the end, these two planes don't approach a mile or a mile away, they don't get out and go the same way. So there's a state that is run by the AKP, and there's a state on a plane that works parallel to that that is controlled by the service movement -- its claims. So while the AKP blames what it calls the parallel structure, it says that they are parallel to it, it blames itself. So he doesn't know what the term he's using actually means. In what country of the world, dear friends, is a judicial reform made for the liquidation of the bureaucratic structure? That means we'll assign our own staff to the ones we've evacuated. Gentlemen, I point out that this statement is said for judges and prosecutors who need to be independent and neutral in the courts that need to be independent and neutral. If the judges and prosecutors you sent are bad, they will continue to serve wherever they go. Then the citizens who live there are not your citizens? Or, since you've assigned the new people there, it means: "This is our man, the man close to us. " Well, then, how can those of you who don't think like you, who don't vote for AKP, trust that man, trust him? It's not for that purpose, obviously, to improve the judiciary. And you've got something called a quick trial, which is not really an appropriate term for modern law. In the process of trial, if the time-consuming, citizens are waiting at court doors, and they're redundant, so if they need to be removed, why do you only do this debrief and acceleration in the field of efficiency, in every aspect of the law, not in every aspect of the trial, but in a limited area? In the field of law and punishment, which you call law and punishment, the citizen who claims his rights is clearly your stepson. Emergency trial in areas such as privatisation, publicisation, tourism incentives, sales, rentals. Why? Is there a flaw in your account? Are you guys chasing horses behind you in sales, rentals, privatisations, or are you smuggling stuff out of a fire just because something's gonna show up? We probably won't have a friend in the General Assembly who'll say no. But how are we going to explain that some of the areas where the numbers are horse-playing, the areas where the citizens are seeking justice, they're taking a tour of other areas of the judiciary? This is clearly a public declaration of right-seeking freedom in this country that some citizens have a clear advantage over other citizens. See, my dear friends, the AKP's position on the rule of law is that it is the law of the superior. Dear lawmakers, it is the work of the political government to uphold justice, to uphold justice, of course. Political power will be both strong and more sensitive to law enforcement than any other party. I don't feed my man. If you approach him with logic, you leave him alone with a country where justice's credibility rates are down to 28 percent. I must say, these atrocities, dear friends, return income, precious AKP lawmakers, will one day strike you as well. The hands that applaud this cruelty will be begging for justice tomorrow. I'd like to remind you of that and wish you all a good evening again.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0289par0063	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code and the Frame 82 of the Law Charter for Changes in Some Laws. Article 5275 of the Law on Execution of Penalty and Security Protections 108. Article 7. In the last sentence of his joke, we propose and propose that the phrase "fifteen days" be replaced by "one month." Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0290par0070	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0289par0071	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0291par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0289par0073	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0292par0074	Mr. President, lawmakers, I don't think anyone's interested in the legislature here anymore. After all these hours, all of this work doesn't make any sense. People don't even know what you vote for, what you don't vote for. So I'm telling Mr. AKP members of the group that such a non-serious act of law should not be carried out. Because it's really hurtful. Turkey's top body is Turkey's Grand National Assembly, we're representatives of the nation here, but right now people don't even understand what they're talking about, they don't even understand what's being said, Mr. President. For him, I mean, it's best to review this situation as soon as possible. Today's workmen had a great resistance. Because there was a privatisation tender for the Beding Termik Plant. About a month and a half ago, on 10 April, a privatisation of Kemerköy and Newköy Termic Plants was made. These privatisations have been privatised far below the value of our values there, thermal plants, coal mines, and all the land there. The workers are shouting at the government, where the state never hurts, where it always brings profit to the state. The privatisation of these places will hurt the state. They ask you, "What pool media are you transmitting this to?" Then they say: "In Soma, 301 people died, three workers just died in Şırnak. He was a fugitive, he wasn't a fugitive, he was like this. The one who was not a fugitive, that's the one in Soma, that the minister was gone too. He said the best businesses. 301 people died there, too. So, the privatisation of these furnaces is causing serious damage to these people, and the country is causing serious damage to our economy, to our workers, to their families, to their children's future. Now they're calling out to the workers, calling out from there, under the pepper spray, under the police baton: don't privatize these mines. These mines are the property of our nation, these mines are our property. Please don't privatize these mines, don't send us to our deaths. We ask you and the Prime Minister, who will sign the privatisation tender on this matter, that these bridges and highways were too low. Just as the Prime Minister said, if I had signed them, I would have been a traitor. Likewise, I preach to you as the voice of the workers there, that these mines, which are being played with the lives of both our people and our country's property, are not being privatized. Now, as to the matter of this clause, the 82nd article of Law Bill 592 is being replaced by Article 108 of the Penal Code. This is said in the execution clause: "Let three-quarters of the punishment for sexual abuse against children be taken after him. I just asked Mr. Secretary, but the Minister isn't around again. If this is the way the execution of the crimes of children's actions, children's relationships with each other, then we would really have to make a very disproportionate arrangement for children's rights, and that would have to be removed once and for all, especially in terms of child offenders. Three out of four executions, my dear friends. On the other hand, in matters related to drugs, if he's evacuated, there's probation and so forth, but there's no medical treatment. Sex crimes are also controlled freedom and all that, with a court order that could happen, but there's medical treatment. We asked at the Commission, but unfortunately we didn't get an answer. What do you mean by medical treatment? We're lawyers, we want to know what they mean. I mean, does it mean that people are being neutered, something that goes against human rights? I mean, it can't be, it can't be decided in this House, it's against human rights, you've destroyed his life or his other physical activities. That wouldn't happen, and that wouldn't happen on the scale of the world. That's what I want to tell you. On the other hand, there's just been an arrangement regarding the sick prisoners. I'd like to tell you the situation of Murat Özenalp, who later died of cerebral hemorrhage in the Mamak Military Prison. Murat Özenalp has a cerebral hemorrhage, there's an ambulance, there's no keys, he's coming in 15 minutes. At Mamak Military Prison, they don't have enough medical staff, they don't have a neck brace, they only have a gurney, and believe me, they choose the mind until they're taken there to GATA. Now, the medical facilities in prisons are exactly like this, and the ambulances are just like that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If we really want to do something serious -- if the minister were here -- we have to make sudden visits to prisons...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0293par0083	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0292par0084	...to save the lives of those people there, to improve their health, but unfortunately, I see that I am not in power. Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0293par0087	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0294par0088	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit09spe0293par0089	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0293par0001	I now open the tenth session of the 102nd Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the 82nd article, the decision of Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends had not been reached. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. I submit the 82nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 592 from where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in the third section are complete. Now, let's begin the talks of section four. The fourth chapter covers Articles 83 to 104. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk will speak on the fourth chapter.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0295par0013	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the fourth part of the current bill. I salute you all. In fact, Mr. President, the bill that we're discussing is largely in the penal code and the penal code. Now you know that we often have to change the penal code and the penal code. That's because these laws were not really followed objectively when they were being drafted. It is the understanding of political power to solve everything using the majority of Parliament to solve the daily problems it faces in the country. This law, both the penal code and the penal code, entered into force on 1/6/2005, but we are faced with an understanding of the habit of making such sloppy laws that the Penal Code 5237 had to change 18 times. We change it two or three times a year. Again, Penal Code 5271 has changed 14 times, Article 91 has changed over the course of that period. This, in fact, means that more than one third of these laws have been changed. Now we're looking at a change again. In fact, this change has also come to us conjuncturally, in accordance with the climate that Turkey has actually encountered in which political power has encountered. Now, two or three days ago -- I think on June 7th -- Mr. Prime Minister, at the opening of the third airport in Istanbul, when he mentioned the brainiacs, he said: "They are trying to move Turkey back to ten years ago; whereas we want to go back to the days when it was a brand, so we want to see the days when Turkey is a brand in the world." My dear friends, you can build big airports in a country, you can build big hydropower plants, you can build big dams, you can build skyscrapers, but none of them show that country is a brand in the world. There is only one way to understand that a country today and in modern times is a brand; is it really a state of law or not? I mean, is it the law or is it the power of the individual that prevails in that country? And are those who run the country in that country, especially the Prime Minister, the state of law, or not? If Turkey isn't a state of law, then your claim to be a brand in the world is fantasy. If there really is a rule of law in Turkey, then you may not have giant dams, but you may not be as ambitious as you are in economics, but Turkey is a state of law. Actually, there's no double standard in law enforcement. By plotting in the state of law, those who run that country will not be dragged into prison for years. Now, there are HDP MPs sitting among us in the ranks of these Parliaments, who have lived in prison in the past when they were a member of the nation. Sinan Aygün, who has spent a large portion of this year in prison, is among us, Herr Professor Dr. Mehmet Haberal. Dear Professor Dr. Mehmet Haberal, I'm afraid he hasn't been able to use the experience he's had over the years for a certain period of time, the best days of his life, unfairly, in prison. Now, as lawmakers, we, as law enforcement people, see whether the perpetrator, regardless of who the perpetrator is, regardless of what the verb is, is violating the right to a fair trial of that person, and the prosecution that follows, if the evidence of the alleged crime should come to light. We have to look at this, the state of law sees it that way. Who violates the right to a fair trial? The shepherd on the mountain doesn't violate the right to a fair trial, the man on the street. The state violates the right to a fair trial. The state violates the right to a fair trial by the hands of judges and prosecutors charged with the right to that fair trial. In fact, there's always talk of custody in this country, but in this country, there's no mention of the custody of his understanding of the rule of law as judge and prosecutor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would really like to have the political power to actually solve this country's painful problems, so that this could be an opportunity. Every time the package arrived, there were deep expectations that the fundamental problems of society would be solved, there were expectations that the problems of arrest would be solved in this country, and the ministers made statements about it, but those packages came out, the problems of the arrest continued, the problems of the arrest continued. Again, every time, there were expectations that the prisoner or convicted MP problem would be resolved, but these expectations were not met. In his speech, he says, the turnaround is being prepared for a review of the Prime Minister. Of course, the prime ministers may also be prepared, but if these proceedings are a conspiracy, then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister why he called them "pompas" and why people were branded and their children were orphaned while they were alive, and why certain lawsuits in public have not been solved. The Prime Minister says that's really why he's preparing a trial for himself, but I think it's my duty to make this country's 26th Chief of Staff feel that he's been sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment as the director of the terrorist organization. Mehmet Haberal, who has spent his years in science, is accused of coupism, is described as a member of the terrorist organization. In fact, it is insights to conceal the terrorist organization in this country. Dear lawmakers, look, we've made various laws before. In one of the laws we've passed, the last time we've decided to vote together in the removal of these terror courts, technical surveillance, surveillance, seizure, search warrants, heavy criminal court, but now, we're removing the prosecution's decision, the appeal to the criminal court, we're objecting to the court. In fact, I find it hard to understand: What is the reason for the removal of the judicial courts in this country? I don't understand that. I need the Minister to tell me that. You brought the matter of the responsibility of judges and prosecutors with compensation after the case known as the News case, you filed it, you lifted it in this law before this, and now you bring back the exception of that responsibility in the same way. I mean, there's no way to figure it out. They show only one thing: your understanding of making laws according to your own needs continues. The executive body can't reform as long as it maintains its sense of law and habit according to its own needs and conjunctural needs. It takes a lot of courage to reform, to revolutionize the law. But if political power had actually revolutionized law, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 packages wouldn't have come... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the backpacks wouldn't come. These are concrete indicators that there is no reform in law in this country.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0296par0028	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0295par0029	I do not believe that this legal arrangement will solve the needs of society and the problems of the judiciary. It is intended to turn the balance between political power and the congregation arithmetically; we are not too ignorant to understand it, everyone sees it. There's no such thing as a legal arrangement, and such fears can't be avoided, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0296par0030	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0295par0031	The final solution is to sit and objectively find solutions under the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act in Article 159 of the Constitution. It's not my judgment, it's everyone's judgment, it's the people's judgment, it's the Parliament's duty. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0296par0034	Thank you. Mr Faruk Bal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0297par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you to present the views of the National Movement Party on this chapter. Once again on this blessed night, I salute the grand jury. Of course, it's 11:30, half an hour until today's complete. I'd like to share my opinion that there's no point in condemning people who want to fulfill their spiritual responsibilities here tonight. My dear friends, this section generally considers the provisions for HSYK, according to the removal of the judicial courts and the violation of judicial justices and the Constitutional Court's decision. Now, what is the meaning of the dismissal of the judicial courts and the violation of the judicial justices instead? I never understood what it meant, and I didn't understand it, and I couldn't think of any reason why it was necessary, but I understand the problems that could happen. First of all, the problem with this is that the first level of court system we've been implementing since 1926 is being eliminated. The peace penalty, the original punishment and severe criminal court system are being eliminated, a binary system is being introduced, and in the binary system, the criminal court is the primary criminal court, the severe criminal court. The judiciary, which is kept as a criminal judge, will decide only measures, and will supply the work of the laws referred to as the court. My dear friends, this means that if we return from the legal system that we've been practicing for about 90 or so years and give up the trilateral judicial system, the work that has been committed by the court of justice will be transferred directly and naturally to the original criminal courts. Peace criminal courts are a cyparbar court. In every law, there's always a duty to a court of justice, a wide variety of cases. Therefore, the judicial justices, the courts, have specialized in these kinds of cases. In fact, criminal courts deal with heavier cases. Thus, when the law is enforced in a field of law that is unknown to those who serve as judge of the criminal court and who are present in other elements of the judiciary, it will cause a collection of files such as rain as rain. And therefore, the original criminal courts will be locked, inflated; when the citizen goes to follow his work in the court of justice, he will face another court, when the judge of that court has the work of a very different criminal court. The result of these two will certainly prevent the citizen from having the right to a fair trial. With the removal of the court of peace, there is also an arrangement against the judges' verdicts. The original criminal court, which used to be a supreme court against the ruling of the court of justice, was contested in the harsh court of punishment, which was a supreme court against the verdicts of the criminal court. The reason for this was simple, and it was clear that the citizen would be able to evaluate his objection in a high-profile court, which was more guaranteed. However, the system, which the AKP has implemented for 12 years, provides a horizontal object system, especially in the case of the Sledgehammer, as in the victim of the Engin Field in that case. In the horizontal objective system, the Supreme Criminal Court judge will rule as the number one judge of the court of justice. My dear friends, I'm a man who's actually done this job for twenty-two years. Therefore, once the judicial courts are lifted -- for example, there are thirty or so criminal courts in Ankara -- when they are converted to a justice of the peace, there will be no more than five fingers of a hand to a magistrate. Therefore, social and professional solidarity between these judges will have enough consequences to have a negative impact on the evaluation of objections. So professional solidarity, bilateral social relations, the failure to lift a judge's decision, the fact that his decision is justified in another court, will eliminate the sense of justice. My dear friends, that's the technical assessment of this so far, but in the political assessment of such a freaky system, there's only one point in bringing it in, and that's because of the politicisation of the judiciary or the December 17, 25th operations, the search, the detention, the precautionary decision, was created by the political authority by which court in Turkey did not know when to make such a decision? Thus, in the event of the establishment of these courts, in fact, as a violation of the judicial judges, there will be no zülfüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüyüm, who have taken over as a lawyer in the Justice and Development Party, who have taken over as a prosecutor, and who have long-lived men who have decided to release Reza Zarrab. As in Adana, more judges will be appointed on the Facebook page of the Prime Minister. Thus, the AKP will have carried out the control mechanism at the entrance of the judiciary. My dear friends, I've done it. You say. If you're saying I did it, I'm offering you something else: if you're going to preserve the judicial justices, remove the punishment, ignore the judicial justices. During the 12 years of your reign with the magistrates, you have ended judicial activity in 166 districts in Turkey, such as Cheltik, Tuzluk, Yalıhük, Barnlı, Altınekin, Ringpınar, Turkey, and removed the courts. Yes, you say it's a savings, but it doesn't save justice. In these small counties, if he was to be a judge of justice, you also have to ignore the jurisdiction of the peace in these small counties. You had a claim in this indictment court, you said that the Ottomans had experienced it before, and we had it in law. You said, "There are justices in the Ottoman days, and they were removed in 1924, as well as in the court of law." Then, in small counties, you will have fulfilled the most basic human right, the most fundamental universal right, the violation of the peacekeepers. However, I don't believe that you would do this because after you threw Turkey off the bench in the field of justice, you turned the order of the judiciary upside down. Now you're turning this law and the Supreme Court, the State, the HSYK, again, and you've left Turkey's education system, like 4+4+4, in the form of ankle cotton, in the same way that workers' unions are turned into yellow unions, ruling unions, such as civil society organisations and, in particular, under the threat of auditing them in terms of financial and social security, are facing such a problem in the economic and social field. We also see in foreign policy what such a problem can do to Turkey. The problem we face in foreign policy is that Crimea is out of hand; there is no voice from the AKP; there is no voice in Syria; there is no voice in The Hague Court of Justice; there is no voice in Turkey; there is no action in Iraq; there is no action in Syria; you have led a freak plan like the Annan Plan; now the new Annan plans are being prepared; Cyprus is going to go away; there is no voice in Turkey; there is no voice in Turkey; there is no voice in Turkey; there is no voice in Turkey; there is no voice in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0298par0048	Thank you, Mr. Honey. On behalf of him, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik will speak for him.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0299par0051	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself in the 4th chapter of the Law Bill 592, which is being discussed late this evening. I salute you all. I hereby wish to convey my blessings to all the worlds of Islam, to the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, permanent laws are only laws based on philosophy that seek solutions through the system's approach. Unfortunately, during the Justice and Development Party administrations, we've also seen this law-making technique in this bill, which is unintelligible. In this section alone, Articles 4 of the Law Against the Law on the Law Against the Law on the Law on the Law of Criminal Law of 5320, which was issued in 2005, Articles No. 5549 again, Articles 2 of the Law on the Absolving Crime Influence of Crime Influences, Articles 11 of the Law on the Law Against the Law on Anti-References in 2006, Articles No. 6415, Article 1 of the Law Against Smuggling Law on Smuggling in 2007, Articles 1 of the Law on Referendum in 2010, Articles and Prosecutors of the High Council of Prosecutors, Article 1 of the Law on Article 1 of Law on the Law on the Law in 1983. When you look at it, you see that the changes are in the laws adopted in the last 12 years of AKP power. Another understanding is that if there really was a change in the laws of another political party that today can't solve society's problems, I'd understand that in 2010 you did, and in 2013 you did. When these laws were discussed -- I remember very well -- we had objections about a lot of things, we had suggestions on how to fix them, you refused them all, but you refused them all for one reason, even if they were right, they were rejected because they came from the opposition. Now, I see you're bringing your own rejects today. Then that understanding is a truly rotten understanding. This understanding is an indication that the system approach does not look at issues, only through daily events and individuals does AKP politics work. The corruption and bribery operation, known as the corruption of the war on December 17, 25th, aims to expose the perpetrators of this, unfortunately, is a mile in the judiciary for the AKP. In 2010, you're going to do a referendum, and we're going to bring a new justice system to the public for the articles that have changed the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges, and we're going to solve your problems quickly, and we're going to build the infrastructure of forward democracy. You're going to say, "It's going to be two years from now, and we've done wrong in the third year, and we're going to change our own judgment, and we're going to correct it." Dear lawmakers, if more than 2,200 euros of judges and prosecutors are being replaced in one country overnight, if their appointment is being tampered with -- I'm sorry -- it can't be called law, it shouldn't be called law. With the decree issued two days ago, many judges have been replaced, many have been replaced in their duties, taken from one place to another -- if necessary. Well, isn't that the province, the district of the Republic of Turkey or some other settlement you're sending? If this judge is dangerous in the province of A, if he served as the ruler of the parallel structure in the province of A, isn't it the province of Turkey that he went to? Therefore, I remind you once again that these regulations will not solve judicial problems, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0300par0060	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0301par0063	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 4th chapter of the draft law on the amendment to some Laws under the Turkish Penal Code 592 rows under discussion. I hereby salute your high council. And I congratulate your Berat Kandili, which we have come to understand tonight, that the lamp may bring blessings to the Islamic world and to our nation. My dear friends, the penal code has an important function in maintaining social peace and preventing crimes from being committed. In this sense, the country's social and cultural structure, moral values and the needs of economic life are set up by criminal policy, as long as it does not violate the universal fundamental principles of criminal law and constitutional rules. Changing the law in accordance with the spirit of time in the situations in which social life is required is also a requirement of the state of law. The bill we are discussing today includes changes due to the need for judicial reform. In addition, the bill includes arrangements for the court of law, which we have been waiting for years to implement. In our country, there is a need for adjudication in order to speed up judicial services, effectively and efficiently present them. Mr. President, the fourth part of the bill is held between Article 83 (83) and Article 104. The most remarkable arrangement in this chapter is the provision for the removal of the judicial courts. The trial of crimes that have entered the jurisdiction of the judicial courts has been handed over to the criminal courts as well as to Articles 83 and 84. In addition, judicial justices are established to make decisions that should be made by the judge during the investigation. My dear friends, it was not proper to discriminate between the first-degree criminal courts in the field of trial because the problem of frequent conflict between the two courts following the same rules of conduct was on the agenda. In terms of the acceleration of the trial, the court of justice had no practical use. The establishment of a judicial judge, replaced by the removal of the judicial courts of peace, provides a specialisation of protection measures, while opening a way for more effective guarantees of basic rights and freedoms. Again, this chapter includes treatment measures and regulations for supervised liberalisation with Article 191 of the Turkish Penal Code on the crime of drug use, which is becoming an increasingly important social problem today. Again, in this part of the bill, a new institution, called notification, which is not primarily part of our law on the prevention of terrorism, is under way. According to the provision of the bill in Articles 87 (87) and 88 (88), it is under the rule that it should be served in an electronic environment and that it should be served when the notification reaches the other side, regardless of the procedures for the notification carried out in Article 7/a. The bill also includes a severe administrative fine imposed by the president of the institution or institutions, the person who has been found to have failed to meet the obligations of electronic notification. My dear friends, in the fourth part of the bill, the weighted arrangement is the amendment to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Law 6087. As it is known, the Constitutional Court has cancelled some of the articles of HSYK Law No. 6087 under its ruling dated 10/04/2014. Apart from this cancellation, amendments are included in the bill, in accordance with the Constitutional provisions and the Constitutional Court rulings. Our government continues its efforts to build a sound legal state in our country and make judicial services fast, efficient and efficient. I hope this bill will serve the thought and strategy of judicial reform, and I wish all the best, and I wish you all good night.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0302par0075	Thank you. Congressmans, there's a motion on the section according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm reading the motion. I'd like to request that the department talks continue according to Corporate 72. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0303par0085	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0302par0086	Is the decision enough?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0303par0087	Roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit10spe0302par0088	We've got a roll call. Mr. Vural, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Light, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Chinar, Mr. Bal, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Batum, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[The electronic device started the inspection.]] Congressmans, I'd like to request that the names I'm going to read back into the system. The line got mixed up because of roll call. Mr. Young, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Light, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Oz. After roll call, please. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0302par0001	I now open the 11th Session of the 102nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the fourth chapter, there was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of the motion to continue the talks submitted by İzmir MP Oktay Vural under Article 72 of the Interior Charter. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations on the bill where we left off. The commission is here. The government is here. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer process for 15 minutes. I'll give my word to the MPs who hacked into the system. Mr. Young, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Illum, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Oz, if you go back into the system... Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0304par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, 2,200 of the judges, 2,200 of the prosecutors have been moved to the press. What are the reasons for the change of scenery? How did you find out about these parallel structures? If these are members of the parallel structure when they serve elsewhere in Turkey, will they give up being members of the parallel structure? How did you make that distinction? Where they're going, won't they be part of a similar organization or a similar congregation again? I wonder what kind of treatment our citizens will be subjected to when they face these judges and prosecutors. Do you have any other values or criteria in the other sections, anyone with a change of post? How did you separate these? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer these.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0302par0020	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0305par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I spoke to a mother from Germany named Derya. Together with his son, he stated that the children of nearly 50 Turkish citizens of Hamburg had gone to Syria and had not been heard from for six months. Is there any application for this? Do you know anything about this? My second question is, were terrorists taken there by private plane from Kandil, while meeting with the Prime Minister's representative in Oslo? If he was taken, who went and when did he leave? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0306par0025	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0307par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, with the latest amendment to the Czech Law, the sentences have been lifted. However, reports from time to time that several checks have been bounced and that there have been serious losses in the market have been reported in the press. Do you plan to make a new arrangement? Secondly, do you have a study of the removal of the charges imposed on those who failed to fulfill their commitment in accordance with Article 340 of the Executive and Bankruption Act? How many people are victims and are in pursuit of this substance right now? I'd appreciate a heads-up. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0308par0030	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0309par0031	How many decisions have been privatized by the Privatisation Administration and cancelled by the administrative court? What institutions have been canceled on privatisation? What businesses are related to decisions that are not fulfilled? I want their names one by one. It's also been established that the Okmeydanı was a police officer who was responsible for the murder of a citizen named Uður Kurt. He was found killed there that day with a police bullet. Has the perpetrator been found, has the police been arrested? What stage is this investigation at? In addition, because of the December 17, 25th events, a prosecutor says, "I do not legally accept these wiretaps for the wiretaps made by the court." He considers the court's decision to listen null and untraceable. Can you fill me in on that?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0310par0034	Thank you. Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0311par0036	Mr. Secretary, what is the connection between the December 17th and December 25th investigations and corruption investigations of the state's prosecutor's decision that this bill is not a place to prosecute, and the handover of its powers from the nearest criminal court committee to the same place as the republic's prosecutor? What is the purpose of undermining the control of the Republican prosecutors' decision to make a non-obstructive decision, so what purposes are envisioned?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0310par0037	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0312par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you have any work on opening closed courthouses? Again, has there been any legal action regarding the illegal rally in Diyarbakır on March 21, 2013, regarding the organisers of this rally? Is there any kind of procedure against public officials that allows this illegality? How many judges have you appointed prosecutors since December 17th? Will these transfers be enough to exonerate your power? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0313par0042	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0314par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Turkish Bar Association has made several demands from the Justice Department regarding this green passport. The Justice Department rejected this motion, citing the number of attorneys in the Bar Association. Now, there are nearly 2,000 notaries in Turkey's Notary Union; there are no 2,000 figures in all Turkey; there are about 1,500 or 1,600 notaries. Turkey's Association of Notarys has been demanding green passports for many years. The state gives its servant a green passport, unfortunately, notary, whose most trusted officer, the notary who receives the seal of the state, doesn't give the Notary Corps a green passport. On what legal grounds can you explain this? This Notary Association has a serious demand -- my wife is a notary. Why is the Department of Justice resisting the State Department? Look, he's the government's most trusted officer, notary, that's how the government doesn't give its seal to any of its officials. Why can't he convince the State Department? That's what we've been trying to do. I'm in contact with the Notary Corps. Would you care to make a statement about that?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0313par0045	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have 25 questions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0048	The question of your honor is the final decree. Of course, as you know, appointment and replacement decrees regarding judges and prosecutors are the 1st of HSYK. It's built by his apartment. HSYK 1. The apartment does so under its own principles. The Minister of Justice, the chairman of the board, He has no right or authority to participate in the work of the agency, nor does he have the authority to give any vote or opinion, which is entirely within the board's own decision. In fact, the biggest decision in the court is always a summer decision. The numbers in this decree are always puffy. It's the first time it's been given a perception that there's been such a large number of decrees being issued.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0316par0049	But it's never been like this before, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0050	Look, I'll give you the numbers. 1,976 in the judiciary in 2011, 254 in the administrative court -- 2,335 in the judicial court in 2012, 184 in the administrative court; 1,923 in the judicial judiciary in 2013; 147 in the administrative court; 2014 in the current summer decision, 2,224 in the judicial court; 293 in the administrative court. Notice, the numbers are about the same number as each other. But of course, because of the recent debates in Turkey, everyone is making assessments of whether or not there is this, is this made of this or this? There are those who want to twist it, but it's a routine and normal decree. There could be two less, three more. I'd like to know that in particular. Mr. Light, as you know, with the amendment to the Czech Law, the prison sentence has been lifted. In effect, the Constitution has also made an appropriate arrangement because the Constitution rules that failure to meet obligations due to the contract cannot be applied to prison terms. There was a lot of discussion at the time, but then a decision was made: A centre called Risk Operatoration Center was established within the BDK. It's in operation right now. It's encrypted; people have to be members. From there, you can see all of that person's bills, all of his payments. In the past, only those who wanted to control it could see the negative situations, but now it's all about Alim Light, if it's a company, if it's a person, all the bonds, checks, bonds, Visa card, phone bill, whatever he had to pay, it's all on the record. So anyone who gets a check or a check gives it to someone who gets a check, sees the record of the person he gives a check to. Of course, he has to face the consequences. But it didn't used to happen, so there were references, or somehow he was doing research in his own way. There's a better system now. At the last party's meeting in Afyon, our deputies complained a lot about it, where Deputy Prime Minister Ali Bey, who was in charge of the economy, also explained the figures. As of right now, there's no negative improvement between the check and the one that was traded before the bill was passed, but there's a positive improvement. Here's the problem: our businessmen haven't learned enough about the opportunity this Risk Operatoration Center offers. If they found out, I'm sure they'd be very relieved at this point, not accepting checks from people they wouldn't accept, the market would have built a trust system within itself. There are many lawyers here who know that if they follow the case day-to-day...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0317par0053	It's not about prison, sir, it's about funding, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0054	...if there was never a delay, he could only get in in five years at the earliest, so that doesn't give you much time to collect. But now this system is a really important system. As this goes on, the check will really turn into money, otherwise the check will win the bond. Let's see some more practice, and then we can revisit it if we need to. There are numbers here for years. I don't want to waste your time, but my friends are giving it to me right now. We don't have any work on the removal of the charges, and we don't see it as the Ministry, to be honest.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0318par0057	He got up on a check, and he's standing here, so it's really unfair.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0058	We don't have the numbers right now, so let me put it this way. Mr. Kokturk asked about the issue of the court of the peace in Article 70 of the bill. This is an extremely important change. In fact, there's no point in a civil punishment-inflicted distinction because they're in the same way. There was only a line of duty according to the prison sentence. It also led to the unfair distribution of the workload, and now we've singled it out. In fact, the number of fines will increase, and then the workload will be distributed fairly. Regarding the objections, the peace was given to the judge of punishment, but not all judicial judges were given the objection, only to the justice of the peace within the prison center. For example, there are magistrates in the districts of Ankara. The state's attorney in one district has decided not to follow, let's say in Polatlı, that the magistrate in Polatlı will not object unless there is a severe punishment. Where to? Ankara will then object to the justice of the peace in the face of severe punishment. Only when one of the republic's prosecutors in the criminal center decides not to follow, the peace there will object to the punishment. This is no stranger to our system. What does he do now, if he could object to the verdict of a criminal court? The next number is severe punishment, and the next number is the original punishment, which is the original punishment. Right now, there's a prosecutor suing for capital punishments, isn't there? When he opens it, the only judge in the original sentence can serve up to ten years in prison. Do we say that the prosecutor and the judge agree, and they sentence you to ten years? That's not what we're saying. On the contrary, it's not right to think of such a thing. Let's just say that the prosecutors, the judges, don't know each other right now, that Yozgat is going to the Centre Corrum. If we say that he does not know each other, he does not know each other. If we say that he does not know each other, we deceive ourselves, so that everyone knows each other, and everyone knows each other. What matters here is that the law works right. It seems safer because he's on the board when he does the heavy penalty, but we all know that the criminal courts see it as a bit of a chore, and they see it as something other than his own original thing. Whatever the chief says, the other members look at it or give it to a member. He says, "Look, they sign, but now they won't judge the court of justice, they won't look at any case files. That's just what they're gonna do, that's what they're gonna do. He'll decide on precautions, administrative sanctions related to misdemeanors...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0319par0063	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to finish your sentence, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0320par0064	What about our questions? Are you going to answer in writing?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0065	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0319par0066	Finish your sentence, please.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0067	So, this is going to be a very important institution, residency. Maybe you'll see from now on, the decisions at this point will be better. And they'll be assigned to senior judges. I agree with what Mr. Flagtutan said. I mean, I don't think it's right that it's not given to me either. As my Minister, I want you to know that I'm going to work on our notars as well as on our lawyers to make this a positive outcome, because it's not due to our laws, it's a little bit of the Passport Law, but the separate ministry is following it. But as Minister, I'll follow it to a positive point. I don't have any information about what's happening to Syria from Germany right now, so we need to find out. I can brief him in writing for that.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0321par0070	I have his phone number, I can give it to him.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0071	The question about Oslo is a slander, so it has nothing to do with the truth. I don't have any data on where the privatisation was canceled, how many cases there are, at the moment. I can give it to you in writing when those data are available.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0322par0073	Did they walk to Oslo, or did they take a scheduled flight?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0075	Forensic and administrative investigation into Okmeydanı has been launched. We've been able to determine which gun the bullet from the gun came from. The investigation is ongoing.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0323par0076	The police are out there.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0077	We're not working on the opening of closed courts right now.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0324par0078	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0315par0079	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0324par0080	Interviews on chapter four are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section four to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions in Article 83: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would also like to propose and introduce the addition of the statement after the declaration of Article 83 of Article 592, which is included in the framework of Article 83 of the proposed law. Erol Dora Idris Baluken Nazmi Gür Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 83rd draft of the current 592 rows. We offer and propose that the substance be removed from the text of matter. Ali Riza Özturk Turgut Dibek Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, and I'm going to process it first. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 592 Orders Numbered Bill 83. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Faruk Bal Ali Öz Reşat Right Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0325par0103	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0324par0104	Government?
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0326par0105	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0327par0106	Mr. Faruk Bal sir...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0324par0107	Mr. Faruk Bal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0328par0109	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I stand before you again at this time of night and on a blessed night. I salute you all. As I said earlier, we are again faced with a bill by the Justice and Development Party that distributes Turkey in every area, such as the hallatch cotton. I'll try to continue by expanding the issue that I've just submitted about the court of justice. My dear friends, when Engin Alan Pasha was transferred with a request for an arrest, there was no room for his arrest. Later, the investigation was expanded at Lakecuk, in the Naval Command, regarding the CDs found under the floor of the intelligence officer's office, and another special court of justice was arrested by a severe criminal court order. As a result of the trial, Engin Alan Pasha is number 5 on the base of the intelligence officer's room. He was sentenced to 18 years in prison because of the lu fuckhard disc. My dear friends were the judge who refused to arrest him, the judge who decided to arrest him, and the rest were those who convicted Engin Alan Pasha. Number 5. Five of the seven separate experts' reports made because of the lu/hard disc have been played on this CD//hard drive. It was evident that new hospitals, new streets, new door numbers, names were written on this disk, and for other reasons, they were forged on it. Now, in such a dire situation, we're in a process where dozens of officers and generals -- like Engin Alan Pasha and others like him -- burned with their age -- have been violated the right to a fair trial, and the judges who have made these decisions are now fighting against them in such a way that they will be able to do so, and that law is related to him. My dear friends, in the seven witness reports, his petition for falsification has been rejected by the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office, which has been filed by TÜBITAK on the grounds that the verdict has been rescinded after the decision has been made. Please listen, all of you, do you know what the reason for rejection is? The reason for rejection is: Yes, there is such a forgery in the hard drive, but what's the point of having it before or after they were caught? Of course, the force that put the Engin Field there made such a hard drive, and it was placed there to be found. Therefore, for such an irrational, excessive, unregistered reason, Engin Alan Pasha is still in prison. Now, with this law, those with whom you burned the age with the dried-up like Engin Alan Pasha, we're freeing the law and releasing it from custody in 2010. It's the product of the arrangement you call it. Now with the change you've made, the political judges you're going to place in the judicial courts of the peace... the judges like the judge who, like the prosecutors you've appointed in Soma, even after you've been a candidate for mayor in the AKP, are long-lived men, such as the judge who says, "Long-lived man." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you'll assign him to the criminal justice courts and expect justice from there. There's no such injustice, my friends. Therefore, I submit the motion to the High Council's discretion.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0329par0119	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0330par0120	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-12sit11spe0329par0121	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
