tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsibility statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan (the first person who wants to talk about power outages in the region). Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, again, I stand before you in connection with a deep and unresolved, unresolved problem. Diyarbakir, Mardin, Şırnak, Batman, Urbana, power outages in an entire region from East-Whiteıt, Kars/, Ardahan (Iğdır) to Iğdır. Dear friends, we've brought this up over and over again, but our cry, our cry, our cry, has come to light, but I'm afraid we haven't been able to get your attention. On this winter day, there have been complaints from all over the region, and it has come to a point that, since many places have been privatized, companies who have taken over these new privatisations have been confronted and the business has become even more insurmountable. Dear friends, at the latest, in East-whiteıt, Hınis-ta, Diyarbakır, and Kızıltepe, the centers of these new companies were raided; the institution again met with the citizens, the roads were closed to traffic, the citizens didn't know what to do. Companies who have taken these new privatisations are struggling with their own rights, not knowing how to resolve the issue, where to take it. We've been talking and arguing and arguing and giving numbers, offering solutions, talking to the authorities. Each time we meet, we are told: One, there are necessary improvements, this spring, this summer, this fall, this winter, it always ends; and the second, there goes a famous electric terrace. I told you yesterday, why don't you finish these irrigation ducts? About 25 to 30 percent of the amount you call a fugitive comes without agricultural irrigation. You haven't brought water into a citizen's field in a hundred years, 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants, the GAP project at every turn, 85 percent of the dams are finished, the end rate of the canals is 17 percent to 18 percent more recent this year. Let him dig wells, let the waters of the underworld run out, and let him pay for electricity, and pay for the mazota, and let him bring you the goods, and let him save you, too. Dear friends, I've also said many times from this bench, one of the biggest problems is the Ankara-based tenders in the region. You're giving them jobs -- conjoined, turned, invited -- including the Bingöl-Diyarbakır road, including the Ilisu Dam; including the tenders in the region, in Van (or Diyarbakır), and then, before the contractor here gets there, he's giving them second, third, fourth subcontracts, and they're coming in, and they're often taking jobs -- four, five peoples -- to the point of killing each other. So, today, a large delegation from Diyarbakir... for construction of prisons, with about 15 trillion in old money -- with new money -- there's not much to buy; the business has stopped, and the business has reached a liquidation point. You're looking for the Attorney General, no response. You're looking for the Minister of Environment, no response. I don't know where he's going to get his citizens, where he's going to get them, and that's where he's going to get them, dear friends. Besides, we've done all the projects on Silvan, Midyat, Çınar, and we've been working on them for a year and a half, two years. We've finished all the bills, this time he's going to tender the highways, there's a collection of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Minister of Agriculture -- unfortunately -- Diyarbakır MP. Open up the assembly corridor of Silvan, and the freeway of Silvan will be finished. We say, "No sound!" Çınar, our Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Minister of Agriculture are also there. They'll pass through your village, open up the corridor and finish massing it. We say, "Well, because the highways don't come into the tender without assembly; neither does he. Well, we're looking at ministers, no ministers. We're looking at the government, and there's no government.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0003par0015	There's no AKP, there's no AKP!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0002par0016	There's no trial. O Lord, do not give up our rights. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0004par0019	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz, who asked for a comment on the problems of environmental factors in agriculture. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0005par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak out of the agenda on the problems that environmental factors create in agriculture in Bursa. I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen with love and respect. Precious MPs are the land of agriculture, the land of art, the land of healing, and the land of agriculture, which the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, said at His Majesty's Mansion in 1925. Bursa is an agricultural country, but from the destruction of agriculture in Turkey by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, Bursa has also received its share, and farmers are in a difficult situation and are looking for their way at the gates of execution. In addition, almost every mountain, plains, CED reports, sand gravel pits, cement factories, and agricultural fields are being used without purpose. Do you want an example, valuable lawmakers: We have Lotus Tea, but there is no owner of Lotus Tea, it flows dirty, it flows with heavy metal; yet there is no solution until now; it is at the time of this government that has been in power for eleven years. But one other thing: I'd like to share with you that the mayor of the city has extended the extension for, like, eight years to the industrial facilities in the Plains of Bursa. Dear MPs, there are marble stoves in Bursa, for example, in Orhaneli Başköy, Mustafa Kemal Pasha Sunkülük, and Ayat Baba. There's a court order here. Orhaneli Başköyde, Bursa 1. Admin Court ruled that the marble quarry's business license was revoked. So what happened? Dear lawmakers, I'm expanding this area. He applied for the CED report. We also found that even though the period of six months and seven months passed, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has no knowledge of the cancellation of this license. So, what did our peasants and our women do? Here, in Orhaneli Başköy, they performed a sit-in in the province of Bursa, protesting the work of companies again, and the Governor has stated that these licenses will be revoked. And I'd like to say that we're going to follow them from here on this council bench. I have always spoken of the Valley of the Koz tree of Keles. Mr. Secretary says when we meet, there's still work going on here on the construction of a thermal power plant. Dear lawmakers, the CED report was canceled in 2006, and despite this cancellation, I would like to say that we still don't understand what the insistence is on this issue today; that the Durak, the Harmandemirist, the Dolphins, the Davids, the Seas, the Teacups, the Sewers, the villagers of the desert are waiting for the good news. We have the Inegöl Şarççiçak, and there is a HES project here, which concerns the villages: Peace, Mezit, Osmaniye, Eskikarcakaya, Rustiya, Yeniköy, İhsecond, Kınuk, Özlüce. Guys, I'm not saying the irrigation water is out of hand. They're taking their drinking water from this village and these villages, and the State Water Affairs officials say that we didn't know that these resources were here. Finally, valuable lawmakers are setting up auto-test centers in our Yenişehir, Karacaali and Kela. What do I want to say here? Friends, a mecha where a thousand cattle, 3,000 small animals are grazed, and there are irrigation plants here, but come on, the auto testing centers are being built here, and they're impounded. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] From here, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment to make an effort to take better care of Bursa, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0006par0037	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who wants to talk about agriculture and livestock in Kars. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0007par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, respected lawmakers, the city of Serhat, the city that awaits the gate, and the first town of this land that many of our people don't know much about, is the agriculture-based main source of livelihood for our Kars. It's not agriculture, I particularly want to point out, it's an agricultural-based city of livestock. Of course, if you don't take agriculture and livestock in this city as a major industry and you don't make all your investments and plans according to that, all your other endeavors are obviously very fancy pursuits. So, with the right to increase the standard of life and prosperity of our people from agriculture and animalism in Kars, in the last ten to twelve years, along with the EC PARTI, the creation of peace, prosperity in our country, the growth of production, which is being used in a fair and planned way to improve human life and standards, in fact, almost all of our provinces in Turkey are contributing to serious investments from both central governments and local governments. Of course, between the east and the west, there's always been a difference between living standards that have been opened and opening up day by day. Therefore, respected lawmakers, this must be closed as soon as possible. So, like Kars, in cities that don't have a lot of exits, you have to set the priorities very well and make your plans accordingly. What are we doing with Kars? We said Kars is an agricultural animal city. When you look at animal assets from the point of view, Kars is a city that moves and comes from the 5 to 8th place in Turkey, whereas if you look at it in terms of plant production, Turkey is a city that goes from 73 to 75th in Turkey. So you're trying to meet your fifth animal presence with your 75th plant production. It's clearly an impossible endeavor at a sustainable point of livestock. We already know that this is the case in Kars, in the previous years, especially after the drought -- three or five years -- when our people began to put themselves together, with a drought, they returned to their former position, they became poor, they became poor, their living standards fell. Well, then, it's obvious what we need to do, fellas. In Kars, agriculture and livestock need serious support and contributions at the bait point, which constitutes the main entry of animalism, 70 per cent. There's a certain way to do that, members of law. We have a responsibility to water all of our irrigable land, to raise our number of dams in the water as quickly as possible, to finish the land collections there and to increase the production and support of the bait plant and to bring it back to its old numbers in the Northeast Anatolian Region, with a city of more grassy mera than anywhere else in Turkey. That's what we're doing. In particular, thanks to the fact that we've been able to determine the needs of the region in the last ten years, and that we've been able to get it to the central administration, especially Ahmet Arslan Bey, Orhan Atalay Bey, I'd like to say in that sense that we've been doing all our attempts to agriculture and animalry together. In that sense, we've gotten a lot of distance. What did we do? We're increasing our number of dams, guys. According to Kars, we began to build dams that would water the village's land, each one of them near 50. Kars finished the dam, Selim Dam, and AK PARTI. Karakurt Dam is almost finished planning. The paper watering is ready, and the watering of Koçköy is ready in Arpachay. The watering of Selim Plain is ready by means of the Development Administration. So, in this sense, our plans are moving rapidly to meet the bait, which is the real input of efficiency and animalism that is higher than our land. When you want to count it, be sure, just look, the things that were done to Kars, in agriculture and livestock during the AK PARTY, can take pages and hours, but I've simply passed these headlines. They're handing someone a microphone in Kars, and they say, "Do you have any complaints about Kars? No, thank God." They insist, do you have a complaint? No, but we have a grudge against the Russians. What is it with you and the Russians? They say, "Ya, they did something around here 70, 80 years ago, but they didn't even look at it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to see if they're old, if they need to be renovated. But with the AK PARTY, Kars has been remembered. He says we will continue to walk with the AK PARTY because we believe it will not be forgotten.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Some species of fish living in our seas are threatened by extinction, and the risk continues to grow. In this regard, we propose and propose that parliamentary research should be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, and TBM Council, in order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the problems facing the fishing sector. With all due respect. [[Army]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 11) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 13) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 25) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] Turkey is a country surrounded by seas, but has the potential for extremely rich lakes and streams. The fishing industry has a special significance because of its contribution to healthy food, providing raw materials to the industry, creating employment, and the potential for high exports. Fishing is an important source of income for the Eastern Black Sea region. The East Black Sea region is one of the leading players in the Turkish economy of the fishing sector in terms of its technical research capacity and knowledge in terms of both natural conditions and fishing. Fifty percent of the fish caught from the seas in Turkey come from the East Black Sea region. According to studies conducted in our universities' water products faculty, 59 species of fish have been extinct on the shores of Turkey in the Black Sea, where there are 161 species of fish. In addition, research by the UNDP (the United Nations Development Programme) and the GEF (the Global Environment Fund) stressed that the Black Sea Ecosystem Recovery Project has dropped to 850,000 tonnes in the Black Sea in 1985, with its fish stock dropping to 850,000 tonnes in 1985, and its 534,000 tonnes in 1986 have dropped to 88,000 tonnes. Some species of fish living in our seas are threatened and the risk continues to grow, but what's even worse is that they're completely extinct, like some species of sturgeon with a black Sea index. This negative process is still under way today. These creatures are also protected by international contracts. Unless the necessary importance is taken, there will be irreversible destruction, and most of the fish species living in our seas will be in danger of extinction. The destruction of our scarce natural beings will also endanger the future of our country and our people. In the future, Turkey must use its resources rationally and sustainablely to ensure the extinction of its fish generation. For this reason, in our country, the fishing sector must be addressed as a whole, with respect to the environment and modern technology, including our seas, our lakes, our streams. It is vital that a parliamentary study be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution and the Civil Charter 104, and 105, to ensure the future of our fishermen and fish species is guaranteed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Mining requires knowledge, experience, expertise, and constant control because of its inherent risks. In the last 30 (30) years, the government has been reduced, the public's operating area has been narrowed down, and the mining sector in our country has been reduced by half, as has been the collection of information by generations as well as by attempt to be implemented by the defense of economic activity and efficiency. On the one hand, the rejection of the current savings of our country's mining companies and the inadequate, unequivocal and inexperienced production of mining productions have also led to further accidents. For these reasons, the reasons for the accidents in the mines, the conditions of the miners' work and pension conditions to be restructured in their favour, and for the immediate taking of the necessary measures to determine their problems, we ask that Parliament be opened under Articles 104 and 105. [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 5) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 11) Ayşe Eser Danışoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 13) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] 14) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 15) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 22) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] According to a report by the Mining Engineers Room, the number of workers who died in mining accidents in Turkey appears to have increased year after year. In 2008, 48 mining workers were killed in a business accident, while in 2009 the number went up to 92, 105, and 93 people died in 2011. Although 98 per cent of the accidents in the mines have been explained by experts and institutions based on scientific data, it is not possible to accept understanding that the deaths that occurred were the fate of the mining profession. In the study of mining in the world, it turns out that death is not destiny. In the mining sector, business accidents occur in our country at 4.5 times the level of European countries. In the mines today, workers are still forced to produce with old technology. The use of advanced technology, the detection of risks with modern measurements, and the use of technology in every mine without exception. An important problem with mining workers is that they create occupational health and occupational security, work at low wages, and work long enough to retire, causing them to become victims. If employee health and occupational safety measures are taken care of, mining accidents will also drop significantly if the hours and wages are arranged in a manner that is humanly appropriate. Unregisteredness in our country has become a major problem in the mining industry. Here's the thing: 35 percent of mine workers appear to be unemployed. With the privatisation of the mines, the discrepancy has also increased. Because of privatisations in coal mining, jobs have been shifted to private sectors, workers are forced to work under low wages and heavy working conditions, without measures for health and job safety. The difficulty of the working conditions of the miners is that the conditions of retirement that are not suitable for the workers in this sector make them feel uncomfortable, and that is why many workers are thinking about quitting their jobs or leaving their jobs. As he left his home every day, it became almost impossible for mining workers, who went to work with their relatives, fearing that they might never come out of the furnace where he landed every day, to retire in these difficult working conditions. In order for them to retire, the age level, the amount of insurance and the number of premium paydays must be rearranged in a way that favours mine workers working in this profession. In addition, almost everyone who works in this sector soon succumbs to occupational illness. Mining is not suitable to employ individuals of all ages because the working conditions are heavy and dangerous. Half the employees in this sector are individuals between 27 and 36 years of age, while the ratio of 37 to 46 years of age is 32.6%. In the industry, the proportion of people who are 46 and above is very low. This indicates that workers in the mining industry are unable to do so at a certain age. For these reasons, it is of great importance to establish parliamentary research to determine problems in the mining sector and find solution proposals and implement them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The mining industry, along with agriculture, is one of the two basic manufacturers of raw materials in the economy. Because of this quality, the mining sector has a two-way basis for its direct contribution to the economy, and the other because of its input into other areas of the economy, especially the manufacturing sector. In order to determine and determine the problems facing the mining sector of the East Black Sea region, we demand and demand the opening of parliamentary research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Eskişehir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 25) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] The mines are common values made up of millions of years, which can't be replaced when consumed, so they have to be operated in a planned and rational way, given to humanity by nature. Therefore, the mines are common property of society and the savings belong to the public. This is clearly stated in Article 168 of our Constitution. The government's control and protection of its own resources is one of its primary tasks. Therefore, it is vital that our mines be used in accordance with national interests. It's an advanced mining industry production, employment and so on. In addition to his contribution to economic indicators, if the right policies and plans are followed, the country can create an important driving force for manufacturing industry. For this reason, economic development is considered mandatory to give special importance to the sector in the creation of policy and its plans. Besides, there's no doubt that mining has a very special place to meet the need for energy. Like all over the world, about 90 per cent of the energy demand in Turkey is met by fossil fuels of mining origin (petrol, natural gas and coal). On the other hand, the importance of mining is evident in energy, given that nuclear and geothermal energy sources, which have an important weight among alternative energy sources, are primarily of mining origin. Iron steel, non-iron metals, cement, ceramics, glass, etc. Much of the manufacturing industry mainly takes its inputs from the mining sector. It is clear that without a healthy mining infrastructure, the development of these industries will not be easy. There is no doubt that development will be incomplete and inadequate in a country that ignores or ignores the mining sector. The eastern Black Sea region finds 72 metallic minerals, 33 industrial raw materials and 3 energy raw materials deposits. Their contribution to the country's economy would be more than $100 billion, as a reserve, if these were to be brought into the economy. The importance of the mining sector is very evident in reducing poverty and resolving regional inequality. In addition to creating direct revenues, the mining sector contributes to the development of industry in the region, which is also made to provide low-cost input, creating a significant employment in these areas, increasing the professional and technical skills of the local people and accelerating the development of physical infrastructure. In particular, large - scale mining is of significant benefit to the economic development of the region, along with education and health care, bringing clean water, transport, energy and other infrastructure services. In the East Black Sea, 2.1 million tonnes of copper in total 75 per cent of the country's copper reserves, 2.2 million tonnes of zinc reserves, 2.2 million tonnes of zinc, have been identified as 0.4 million tons of lead reserves, making up 52 per cent of lead reserves. It has also been noted that silver is found in the beds of Silverhouse Mastra, Army Akolik and Sayaca and Artvin Cerattepe, making up 10 per cent of the country's total gold reserves, and silver reserves are 37 per cent. For these reasons, it would be appropriate to establish a parliamentary research commission in the Eastern Black Sea region under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems and difficulties facing our mining sector and to determine the measures to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 19/2/2014 Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. On 14 February 2014, it was given by the Deputy Chairman of the Bingöl Group İdris Baluken (5021 rows no. lu) The parliamentary research proposal, given to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in an effort to minimize drought damage, and to improve a comprehensive water policy, was proposed to be read in the presentations in Wednesday's 19/2/2014 jointly, before other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, İdris Baluken, Bingol MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0009par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our party's motion to fight the drought. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, during the 12-year period of AKP government's power, unfortunately, serious policies on the solution of drought and desertification have not been produced so far. The AKP government, which did not comprehend the promise of drought and desertification, tried to take measures to save the day with palliative solutions, which so far did not eliminate the risk of drought, but brought with it some catastrophic consequences that destroyed the ecological system. We can briefly sum up the water management policy of the AKP's 12-year period of power in the form of building a dam in front of every water. When the ministers of the AKP came here, they were proud to look at the Turkish water, and now we've changed it, and we're building a dam wherever the water flows. The ecological destruction of these new dams, the destruction of ecosystems, the endangerment of nature and human life, the loss of future generations, the loss of cultural heritage, again, the fact that some government-closed capital and Rant environments have made serious money out of these policies, unfortunately, has not ruled out the risk of drought so far, has made it clear to us how wrong these policies are. When we look at world examples, we know that most of the countries that run water policy through dams, including the United States, are now giving up these policies, but here, unfortunately, we have the opposite situation. Look, there has been a serious drought in Turkey since 1950-1951, 1973-1974, 1988-1989, 1994-1996, 2000-2001, 2006-2008 and 2012. So, the danger of drought, which has previously occurred in our country once every ten years, is that, with AKP's policies, especially in the last few years, the country's agenda is very serious, so that every five years, the farmer, the peasant, all the people can talk about their hearts. The high-value ministers of the AKP government, who failed to develop effective countermeasures, have repeatedly shown here that there is nothing to worry about, that in the coming days there will be rain, snow and a sense of fighting a drought. The ministers, who are supposed to fight the drought, say: "Even if there is a drought in Istanbul for three years, there is no water problem. " So, instead of taking precautions, authorities are focusing on the policy of relaxing the public through perception management, creating a different perception. Look, let me just try to explain the magnitude of the problem in a few different ways. In particular, recent data from Bursa, Alexandria, and Aksaray have been extremely bad. In the eight ponds that gave life to the Plain of Newhir, the water was reduced to 3 percent. Again, the amount of water entering the Nesty Dam, which provides a large portion of the drinking water of the Kovaleli, has been reduced to about 190 thousand cubic metres, and therefore, water is being reinforced from the Lake Sapanca. The data in Aksaray is also filled with data that will indicate the driest years of the last 20 years. When you do not develop any water or agricultural policy, when you do not take the necessary measures, we expect it to rain on Friday, and if it rains, you will go before the public with informal approaches, such as this. There's been some news in the press. In Kepirce, Tekirdağ, Şarköy district of Tekirdağ, Hatay. In many villages of Balıkesir, the villagers who felt the risk of drought in their hearts began to pray for rain. There are demands all over Turkey that when you talk to the villagers, farmers, people, concerns about this drought reach a very serious level, that the Assembly should come up with policies that will be involved immediately, and that the government should be more sincere and more serious. I was in my constituency last weekend. It's the same with Bingol. We visited the villages in the plains of Bingol, where we met the villagers. In the Plains of Bingol, the Dam of Gülbahar, which will water the Plains of Bingol, has not been finished for eighteen years and nineteen years. Imagine, a watering dam, a watering dam that would kill a city's plain, can't be finished in 18 or 19 years. Right now, in the last two years, they've recently made a statement to the press that the dam has run out of 80 percent as we've compressed the government with a little bit of effective opposition here. In fact, Mr. Secretary has made the opening symbolically, but there are no irrigation channels for the dam they opened. So, the villagers, farmers, are deeply concerned about the drought; to the public, we, Minister, have opened the Gülbahar Dam in Bingol. But since there are no irrigation channels, there is no water to benefit the farmers, there is no fundamental policy to satisfy their concerns. Again, in the plains of Bingol, in this period of government, the gatherings of the AKP government faced almost plain villagers. According to the ex-cadastro records, many families have come into a position of opposition, which is almost blood feudal. I mean, your policies have been on the agenda so far, and other than that, let alone the peasant and the farmer who are looking for a solution, going to the same level of problems that will kill each other. Look, there is also a serious danger of dehydration because of this drought in Istanbul. We know that the average of the 10 dams that satisfy the city's need for water has dropped to 30 percent. Again, we know that especially this Pabuçdere Dam has fallen from a capacity of up to 35 percent. These hailing rates have been taken over January data and have been evaluated at the second lowest level in the last decade. So, this Assembly, which is about drought, about dehydration, about desertification, has to form a research commission as soon as possible to address the problems that exist throughout the country. This research commission must also prepare extensive reports from energy policies in Turkey to water management policies. We want to express that the problem can't be solved by the government's statements that have created expectations of climate change. The right to water, the right to clean water is the most basic human right to live, and as the Party of Peace and Democracy, we want this right of water to be already constitutionally guaranteed. As for energy policy directly related to this water policy, the AKP government must abandon the current mistakes. More like an understanding that's trying to get energy through fossil fuels that's damaging the climate. The AKP government must surely review an energy policy over wind energy, solar energy, geothermal energy through renewable energy, and thus produce policies that respect nature, environment, human life, proper, appropriate, ecological balances. If that were to happen, the country would be in danger of destroying human health and environmental health all the way from Hasankeyf to the Black Sea, from the Kaz Mountains to Şırnak, from Bingol, from the Kaz Mountains, and from all over the country, and the public would have to be put aside and take some serious measures related to this drought. That's why we think this motion is extremely vital. In particular, the ruling party MPs say we ask for support in this motion, and we salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0010par0269	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Hilal Kaplan, MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0011par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of a group proposed by the Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute your high council. I've shared with you many times the danger and seriousness of global climate change in the world and Turkey. I have shared with you the idea that this danger could be more dangerous than the economic crisis, that agricultural areas could be destroyed, that the usable water would be scarce, that public health would be corrupted in cities, that industry would come to a halt, and even that water wars could happen. In order to do so, I specifically stressed the need for many measures to be taken. I'm sorry to say we're heading to where we came from. Mr. President, due to this recent drought in Turkey, despite such an important motion from the Peace and Democracy Party, unfortunately, our Minister is not present until now. Mr. Secretary is doing one thing very well: we've been here 20 minutes before the MPs came to their five-minute non-responsive speech, and we've done all this. He knows how to create a very extraordinary situation by saying, "It's like." Actually, it's a matter of one-on-one concern to him, Mr. Secretary should be here. Dear lawmakers, because of the recent drought, lakes are drying in many of our provinces, and unfortunately we have a picture of water levels falling from ground to 10%. The level of Lake Van has been reduced, and many lakes have dried up in the Marmara region, my speaker friend just told me. Sadly, we are experiencing a period of minimal water levels in the Yucky Dam, which meets the need for water in the Kovaleli region. In the period, even the supplements you received from Lake Sapanca were not enough, for we all know that the water levels in Sapanca have fallen a few feet these days, and that the distance is about 60 meters [60 m], by handing the streams that flow to Sapanca, and by bad use of Sapanca. Mr. Secretary in the first place, there's no need for experts to be concerned about this matter, Mr. Secretary. There's nothing to worry about. It's going to rain this week anyway. If it doesn't rain this week, I hope it rains next week. As long as we do not fail in our prayers, they take refuge in a sense of vision, ignore danger, try to cover their inadequacies with prayers, and cover them up. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share an information with you: the consumption of water per person in Turkey is 1,500 cubic metres. If our water reserves remain like this today, if our population increases like this, the amount of water used per person in Turkey will drop below 1,000 cubic metres in 2030. This means that as we are not a water - rich country, we will become poor by falling below 1,000. For this reason, Turkey must immediately take out its drought management plan. In the last 50 years, we've been draining, filling, interfering with water systems, defunctioning with policies the size of about 3 Van Lakes. Precious lawmakers have begun to build up greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane gas, because of the increasing fossil fuels used for industrialization and industrialization that have been rapidly growing throughout the world in the last century, and because of the deforestation of forests and the uncontrollability of consumption in society. The main cause of natural disasters, such as droughts, storms, floods, loss of biodiversity in many parts of the world recently, is global warming. To find a cure for global warming, developed countries have come together on many issues, gathering almost every year since the 1990s. I won't go into too much detail, I won't explain to you the details of their measures because I don't have time, but the point is -- they signed a Kyoto Protocol in this frame -- is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. To do so, they take a series of measures by accepting a reference to greenhouse gas emissions in 1990. Look at the precautions they're taking. They say that in 2020 we have to reduce 20 percent of the current greenhouse gas emissions and 80 percent of the current greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. They set such a goal. So they gave up thermal plants, fossil fuels, gas investments that would contaminate the environment, and they headed for renewable clean energy. On the one hand, they are trying to increase the ratio of forests and wetlands, as we call them, to reduce greenhouse gas absorption. So, what are the valued MPs doing about it, what are we doing? Mr. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs responds every week on this bench -- as I'm just saying -- and boasts that the MPs are talking out of their five-minute agendas: we've reformed the stream, we've done this much pond, we've solved this much problem. If Mr. Minister were here, I'd like him to listen. It's not enough for you to say that. See, a recent press report on Turkey notes that Turkey's World Bank has a serious shortage of forests that have consumed its natural resources among the OECD countries over the past decade and have increased the most greenhouse gas emissions over the past decade. The percentage of forests in the land parts of OECD countries is 40 percent, and unfortunately for us, it's not as much as the Ministry of Forests mentioned, unfortunately, it's about 15 percent. It's important that the measures we need to take against climate change, against climate change, should be more important than the measures OECD countries take, even more than the measures we need to take, but look what we're doing: let alone taking precautions, we're continuing to open first-class agricultural fields to industry, thanks to your government; we continue to commercialize water by selling water to companies that flows into lakes; we continue to market the forests to Rantiers for minerals, and, unfortunately, even though you're in such danger, in this assembly, with legal arrangements, you keep the environmental plants contaminated with your environmental plants, and you're immune to many environmental legislation. Dear lawmakers, if this drought continues, if we continue to desecrate our environment and our world, the process ahead is unfortunately dark. Sadly, we will all live together as a result of this shortage of water, public health problems, sickness, and death. As a result of the continuing drought, we will face the danger of extinction, which we have made dependent on the outside by your government, which is not enough for ourselves. This decline in agricultural areas will lead to economic loss, as well as famine in the country. We'll come to the point of fighting our neighbors that we're already not at peace with tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's possible to exaggerate the bad scenario. Believe me, I don't make bad scripts for politics. Since my time is limited, I'd like to put in a few words and stop talking. This motion by the Peace and Democracy Party is in line with a motion we've made. That's why the Republican People's Party says we will support the Peace and Democracy Party's motion, and I give you all my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0012par0287	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0013par0288	If you didn't say green, they think it's dollars.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0011par0289	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0012par0290	The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0014par0292	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been seen in five years since the drought period in Turkey, which has been seen on average every ten years. The last drought, which began in 2012, increased its impact due to the lack of rain during the first months of 2014, and many of our provinces in particular have suffered droughts. On this basis, I have made a commitment to the Parliament's proposal to investigate the practices that have caused the drought to increase, to minimize drought damage and to improve a comprehensive water policy, to inform the Parliament and the public. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, it is necessary to consider the findings made around the world over the years, the findings made in Turkey to determine what caused this drought. What is the most important thing that threatens the world today? We need to prioritize global warming and climate change and environmental factors. Today global warming and climate change are more important than terrorism, economic crisis. When the leaders of G7 countries come together, they reveal that this is the world's most important problem. So, where did the world come from? In the 1800s, especially in Europe, and later in the United States, industrialization increased, rapid population growth, and especially in the intense use of fossil fuels and energy, the accumulation of carbon and methane gas has brought global warming into the world's agenda. This is global warming and climate change, as you all know, when we reveal the point where these rapid population growths that began in the 1800s and some improvements in the industry will be taken in terms of the problems caused by fossil fuels in the world. Those who have introduced the Kyoto Protocol aim to reduce carbon dioxide emissions here. What should be done about the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions? Given the weight of renewable energy sources, the rapid reduction of deforestation and a number of measures related to increasing our forest existence, increasing our wetlands and reducing carbon dioxide emissions have revealed the taking of billions of dollars. Today, when we look at it, America alone makes about 20 to 25 percent of carbon dioxide emissions in the world, but unfortunately America does not sign this Kyoto Protocol. Turkey signed this Kyoto Protocol. In order to meet the conditions of this Kyoto Protocol, an investment of billions must be made. Well, we signed this Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Secretary, we signed the Kyoto Protocol here, we did this, we did this. It tells a lot of stories, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. After signing the Kyoto Protocol, the Durban conference at this point says Turkey is third to third place with countries such as Iran. So don't pay any attention to the Minister's remarks here, his statements, his statistical values, the criteria that determine them are international criteria. When we read the declaration of results at the Durban Conference, we can all see that Turkey is failing in these measures. Dear friends, with regard to this global warming and climate change, there are important tasks for forestry in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in Kyoto Protocol and ensure carbon deposits. Today, Turkey is a poor country of forest existence. Twenty-seven percent of Turkey's facial measurement is covered by forests, and 50 percent of it is unfortunately inefficient forests. Turkey needs to make the barren forests efficient in an urgent way. We all know that 1.3 tons of carbon dioxide is absorbing in 1 hectare, while 1 hectare of efficient forest absorbs 4.5 to 5 tons of carbon dioxide. Then what are we supposed to do? Very quickly, in recent years, the rehabilitation projects that have been implemented need to be productive in our broken forests. Again, near 5 million hectares of Turkish forests are covered by young forests. The maintenance of 1.2 million hectares of these young forests is required every year. So I've been telling the Minister of the Forest here so many times: "Don't show up; there are young, newly raised dynamic brains, there are forest engineers waiting for about 5,000 to 6,000 staff, take these forest engineers and do it and let's do it very quickly, until we give them to the right and to the left, and let's do the maintenance of these young forests. Let's transfer our resources, our engineers, to the efficiency of the inefficient forests. You're running it for five months and 29 days in the fire season. Today, five months and 29 days of temp work, six months and one day, we don't question what they're eating or drinking. While he was transferring funds to other places, while he was handing out funds to those who had committed theft, corruption, while Turkey was making laws here to save those who had robbed billions of dollars, he knew that 630 million dollars would be collected into the Morning-ATV group in a flash, while the minister's children had millions of dollars coming out of their home safes, and $4.5 million came out of their shoe boxes, and the Prime Minister had two villas in one. Level three. By converting it to a degree, you get a runt of 1 in other places. It's a three-degree area. By converting it to a degree, we have to get the resources to the right place, while we're making lots of malls again, where we're going to get people to the right place, where we're going to have to get the resources to the right place. We have to put these workers on the staff that we have to ask them what to eat and what to drink for six months and a day. Dear friends, again, our country is a water-poor country, not a water-rich country. For a country to be rich in water, water per person has to be between 8,000 and 10,000 cubic metres. Unfortunately, the amount of water per person per person in Turkey is 1,500 cubic metres.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0015par0298	1,453 cubic meters.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0014par0299	1.453. Mr. Haydar told me exactly, I said you were close. Now, what do we need to do with these resources? It needs to be used correctly, but in recent years -- especially with HES projects -- you need to get a license without knowing what's what, and you need to get a permit, and you need to get it right on our resources. We, obviously, support policies at the point of closure of Turkey's energy deficit. The energy gap in Turkey must be shut down, and in order to shut down this energy deficit, it must be provided with renewable energy sources. But we have to do it within the framework of a plan, with the right policies on a basin. But what are we doing? On top of a river we make what we call -8-9 river plants - large, small, unscheduled HES. Every HES we do causes climate change there. Every HES we do there is radically changing the ecosystem to the ecological structure there, the trees, the birds, the insects. They must be done, but -- the speaker who was just here said -- your minister came out and looked at the Turk. Now this is what we do, this is what we do. It's not what he says. These things need to be done within the scope of a century's plans. If you do it without a plan, we'll find things in nature that can't be undone. Turkey is currently suffering from water shortages. Look, our dams are 30 percent full, our risk of summer dehydration is too high. As you were saying -- I told you all the time -- when you say something -- God brings you face to face with what you do -- when you criticize a power -- it's so ominous that it doesn't even rain, it's drought. There, it's not raining on you, it's drought on you. This is a sign that you are no longer a pain in the ass in the head of this country. This is a sign that you're leaving this country. That's how you said it eleven years ago, and that's what you get.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0016par0303	God gave them away eleven years ago because they were clean, and because they were corrupt.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0014par0304	Now, with this drought, our farmers are especially miserable in Adana. While our farmers have already faced many challenges, the drought has caused serious problems in vegetables and fruits, while they are unable to pay their debts to the Agriculture Bank. These farmers, who have been mortgaged for two or three years, are deeply affected by the drought. I'd like to extend my regards to the immediate investigation of their problems.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0017par0307	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked to speak against the group's proposal, Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0310	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion of the Peace and Democracy Party to open a parliamentary investigation into the determination of practices that have led to droughts in our country and the minimal reduction of drought losses. I salute the High Council. The most important environmental threats that threaten our world are global warming and climate change. Climate change is not only limited to ecological events but also directly related to economic, social, energy and industrial investments. In recent years, global temperature and climate change and drought, which have felt its impact around the world, are also the top of the most important problems that need to be taken care of in our country. In this framework, our country has devised and implemented a series of action plans to increase its capacity to adapt to the effects of climate change and take necessary measures. One is the National Action Plan for Climate Change. The action plan was prepared with all its partners as a result of a thorough study and was implemented for 2011-2023. Dear lawmakers, the policies and measures necessary for sustainable development to continue are carefully implemented within the framework of this action plan. In recent years, energy, economic and environmental issues have been jointly assessed in this action plan, as climate change's effects have reached a sense of size. This approach, called energy, economics, and ecology, is described as the most important development criteria of the 21st century. In this direction, the main measures of our country are concentrated in sectors such as energy, industry, transport, agriculture, waste and forestry. In this frame... My colleague, Mr. Seyfettin, has just discussed some issues with forestry. When we worked together, he told us that we were revolutionizing forestry, Mr. General Manager. He probably forgot about them.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0019par0315	Then tell me where I said it was. Come on, tell me what I said...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0316	The forest engineer was most often taken in our time.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0020par0317	You're right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0318	Forest workers have been given a staff in our time as well.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0021par0320	It's necessary to prove what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0020par0321	They've never taken a forest engineer, an agricultural engineer.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0322	Yeah. I think it's up to God to bring down the government, so they'll pray for rain... to let the government go on March 30th in the polls. The prayer is not a rain prayer, but the rain will not decide, the chest will decide.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0022par0325	You don't believe in prayers anymore.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0023par0326	You'll have to tell the Minister, then, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0327	A road map of our short, medium and long-term goals, including all sectors in our country, has been set under the Climate Change Action Plan. Again, our country has confirmed that it will meet its obligations to the United Nations Charter Convention on Climate Change in the Ninth Development Plan. The Climate Change Action Plan was also prepared and implemented in this framework. It's not right to say that our country has no policy in fighting the drought. Water is one of the most valuable strategic and economic resources in the world. For the continuation of natural life, water must be managed sustainablely. For water demand to be met permanently, it is imperative that non-water-rich countries like us store their water in dams and ponds. The annual use of water per capita in our country is 1,519 cubic metres. This shows that according to international criteria, our country is not rich in water. Turkey is in the transitional zone between Asia and Europe. Therefore, annual rains range from 250 to 2,250 millimeters. Often, the lack of rain falls, as well as the dispersion of seasons, is irregular. These differences are effective when the temperature rises from time to time in parallel with snow and ice melts or floods with sudden rains. The total amount of available water in Turkey is 112 billion cubic metres. Thus, we use only 20 percent of the annual rain. 70 per cent of the water used is used in irrigation, 16 per cent in drinking, 11 per cent in industry. About 40 percent of our total water potential is used year-on-year.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0024par0330	Why didn't you tell the district manager, the district manager?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0331	In recent months, let me give you a number of figures on the filly rates in dams: Istanbul -- as a comparison -- in 2013, there are 80 per cent of dams; now 28 per cent in Ankara, 29 per cent in 2013, 23 per cent in 2014; İzmir, 62 per cent in 2014; Bursa, 78 per cent, 30 per cent in 2013. So the average capacity in the 79 drinking water dams is 54 percent, 79 percent water in the dam.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0025par0332	You drilled into the bottom of the dam, the bottom of the dam.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0333	Our 207 dam was filled 47 per cent last year, 50 per cent last year. For energy purposes, 89 dams are 44% full.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0025par0334	Yeah, you didn't just empty the money pools, you emptied the dams!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0018par0335	Turkey has taken a series of measures for efficient, efficient use of drinking and using water. At the beginning, we have dams and ponds built over our streams and efficient water use. In this context, 1,763 facilities were built from 2003 to today. The numeral value of these is 65 billion liras. In addition, a thousand pond projects have been implemented in a thousand days. Turkey has prepared and implemented an action plan on drinking and using water in 81 provinces. These action plans guarantee thirty-forty years of water in the provinces. Especially in drinking waters, the fugitives are largely prevented, the networks are renovated. In irrigations, the return from open systems to closed systems and drip systems continues rapidly. With support from our governments, closed irrigation systems around 2 per cent are raised to 85 per cent, 95 per cent in new projects. When we look at the need for water from some meteorological data in this framework, the Melen Project was activated to meet Istanbul's need for drinking water by 2060. Again, the Izmir Gördes Dam has been activated. The drinking water problem was solved by 2040. The Gerede Tunnel Project, which will provide drinking water for our Ankara province, will be launched and provided for by 2060, the need for water for our capital. The ongoing projects include 22 projects, which will satisfy the need for water for 15 million people. As in the world, there is a shortage of water in our country from time to time, depending on climate change, at certain periods. Sometimes it's seasonal, finding average values at the end of the year, sometimes underlying normal values, as in some of our provinces in the last four months. Against that, measures are being taken with the facility of dams, ponds and irrigation systems. In our country, the most important legal provisions for fighting drought and global climate change are the United Nations Charter of Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. At the top of the measures against climate change is reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the use of renewable energy sources instead of fossil fuels. 75% of greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy sector. Therefore, our government has also demonstrated important incentives for the introduction of renewable energy sources. In addition, sanctions have been implemented in the energy and industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It says that our government has taken every precaution regarding climate change, drought and lack of water, so we will vote against BDP's research motion, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0026par0345	What's wrong with voting against him?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0027par0346	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0028par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0027par0348	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0028par0349	Mr. President, I'd like to speak of bullying according to 69.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0027par0350	What did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0028par0351	By giving me my name, saying what I was revolutionizing, what I don't know, what I'm saying, today it's about a person who's a contrast to me by saying different things.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0027par0352	Here, I promised you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0028par0355	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm condemning the personalization of a man I've never wanted to face here, a man I've called brother, and for once, let me say that. I'm a forest engineer. I served during ANAP, I served in the Right Way period, I served in the DSP period, I served in the AK PARTI period; while I was doing my duty, I did my best to do what I was given, and in the time I did it -- look, I did something that I was successful in every job I did.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0029par0357	You did the district office with us.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0028par0358	Don't say anything, don't say anything. Now, I'm telling you, go through all the records, you've sent all the inspectors, you've sent all the teams, you've tried to make imaginary statements, but you won't find anything because we're open to all sorts of things. I was a government official at the time, doing politics today. People have given us opposition, and I'm here to oppose these policies. As a civil servant, you did this, you did this. I don't think it's right to use expressions like that. It's just that you can't say anything about politics, so you take it personal. It's not the right thing to do, especially by someone I call brother, and I'm condemning the personalization of it. Once again, I express my view of forest engineers, you come out here, we take the forest engineer, need or no... that's my opinion, that's our policy. There are over 6,000 forest engineers, about 4 million hectares of forest maintenance, so let's have these forest engineers work here. I don't think it's a crime to say that. Forest workers, experienced workers, five months and 29 days, six months and one day, what will these men eat and drink? That's what we're gonna say, we're gonna tell the trouble of the jungle villagers, we're gonna tell the trouble of the farmers, it's our job and that's our job. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0030par0363	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0031par0364	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0032par0365	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0030par0366	Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0032par0367	I need to explain, if you'll excuse me. It's a tease, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0030par0368	What'd he pick on you for?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0033par0369	No teasing, what teasing?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0032par0370	Wait a minute, my friend, wait a minute, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0033par0371	When you get bored, you want to talk about what, bro?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0034par0372	Mr. Turkkan, please, you decide, did he pick on you or not?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0033par0373	You're having a hard time deciding, so I thought I'd help you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0034par0374	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0375	May I make a statement, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0034par0376	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0379	Mr. Yilmaz just told me about my colleague's mission. We never said that. I wouldn't have made you regional manager for five years if you hadn't already done your duty. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I mean, there's nothing to do with your mission, but let's face it, the most engineered forest engineer in the ten-year-old AK PARTI administration is the forest engineer. Yeah, do we have any unemployed friends? I do. Yeah, who decided for the first time to break the law of forest engineers and do freelance work?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0036par0382	How many did these take?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0383	He's been in charge of the AK PARTY. For 50 years, the law of the forest engineers has not been passed. The AK PARTY government issued this. AK PARTY Government owes its debt to forest engineers...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0037par0384	The jungle law came out during ANAP, so don't do that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0385	He's shown his loyalty, he's taken it off. Our workers have been... The National Movement Party was also in power, so why wasn't 20,000 seasonal workers brought up, our forest workers, and they weren't recruited? We gave them to him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0038par0387	He gave out 7,000 casts, then, MHP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0388	You know that. You thanked me then, and you said our friends deserved it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0038par0389	He gave out 7,000 staff, 7,000.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0390	Now, of course, we've taken seasonal workers, as workers have retired for the past few years. Hopefully, their rights will be put on the line in the future, but right now, the budget of the Director General of the Forest is not available.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0039par0391	You know what you did best? You gave the contractors the cut you took from the peasant, tell the contractors that. You took the cut from the villagers during the AKP, you gave it to the contractors, tell them that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0035par0392	So, hopefully, in the future, they'll get that, too, but I'm also saying we should remember the position we've given 17,000 workers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0040par0395	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0041par0396	Mr. President, the valuable orator said: "There has been no Law of the Forest since the last 50 years, it was issued during the AKP period. This is not accurate information.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0040par0397	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0042par0398	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0041par0399	So the Law of the Forest is a law that was established during the ANAP period. Well, that's the wrong information.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0043par0400	He's giving false information, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0044par0401	When I said the Law of Forest Engineers, I didn't say the Law of the Forest.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0045par0402	Mr. Tanal, please, we don't have that kind of procedure. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory council on Wednesday (February 19, 2014), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 18, 2014, it was suggested that our parliamentary research proposal for the rights and victims of censorship as one of the practices in front of the people's rights and freedoms that we gave to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2014/3564 was read on Wednesday (now) in the General Assembly on Wednesday (February 19th 2014) to meet in the unification of their talks. Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP for the National Movement Party Group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0420	Mr. President, I have made a commitment as one of the practices that prevents the rights and freedoms of the individual to the motion of Congress to determine the impact of censorship on our society, the violations of rights and their victims. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, from here, we will no longer have to address them as well-valued MPs, we will need to address them as Turkish nationals. Lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party have just arrived, checked in, went backstage as soon as the roll call was over. So now it's going to be necessary to address lawmakers of the Justice and Development Party as MPs.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0047par0422	How many of you are there?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0048par0423	That's all the respect they have for Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0424	Dear lawmakers, the job of power is to be here, it is not the duty of power to lobby backstage.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0049par0425	There's five of them, five of them. There's five of them.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0426	So we'll probably call the Justice and Development Party MPs from now on, and we'll have to announce this to the Turkish nation...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0049par0427	Mr. Sinan, look, there are five of us from MHP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0428	Because now the censorship, the Alo Fatih, the lines are so big, what does a congressman say? Mr. Akdoğan, who is the Prime Minister's chief advisor and guide, says: "We have shut down Parliament TV, how can you give it to him?"
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0050par0429	The Prime Minister's guide was the Akdoğan?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0430	That's right, that's right, Governor, that's right. Yes, they shut down the Capitol TV, and unfortunately, from now on, it's going to be the government's job to track them through the IIB Line, which website they're going to go to, which website they're going to go to, which websites they're going to go to. Of course, by the way, we also learned that after the Alo Fatih Line, a phone line was installed. I'm afraid this censorship law, at the speed of lightning, at the speed of fiber, has been adopted. Turkey now has two types of censorship law: One, ίHello Conqueror Law, censorship line; two, (also called two and a half) Censor Line (also called two and a half). Dear lawmakers, unfortunately, as the AKP and AKP municipalities are under every stone in corruption, now the AKP will be under every key, and you will have a censorship mentality. So, how long does this law last? Let me put it this way, this law has been passed for 40 days, until the election. Because after the election, you're gonna have to change that law. You're in such a desperate situation that you've submitted a motion to the House today to alter two articles of the law passed just last week. So the goal here is to eliminate any possible speech text or image against you until the election. So, where were you two years ago, when you were so upright, vertebrate, moral? Why didn't you bring this law when you set up other political parties here? Why haven't you taken any steps on that subject? What did he say, Mr. Prime Minister? They're common. He said, "It's common. " Then, Mr. Prime Minister, what are we going to do about the nation? Is it private? I'm asking you from here. So, if this was the law, how would we know how the businessmen you've been feeding and raising have been blasphemous to the Turkish nation? Then we wouldn't have found out. And from now on, you're trying to justify what more of these businessmen you've been feeding and raising are cursing at, and by this law, you're trying to launder villas and pools with this law. It should also be said that here, we, Mr. President, know that we are an active president who uses the Internet and is actively involved in social media, but what he means is that all of his previous writings should be removed. Why? Because the President has entered into negotiations with the government. Mr. President, when he said "freedom," he said "freedom" in keyboards, "freedom" in keyboards, "freedom" in letters. So, Mr. President, what happened when you said something nice was going to happen? There was a negotiation with Armenia. The second time, Mr. President said, "Good things will happen again." He opened the way for negotiations with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Now, Mr. President has sent a letter to the authorities called freedom, what is it? Turns out, Mr. President was referring to freedom in the letter "Q" as in "L" as in "L" as in "L" as in "L" as in "L" as in "L" as in "L" as in "F." I have to state here that Mr. President is unfortunately in the middle of a dirty bargain. Mr. President has been the head of the community since he became President, not the backup of the AKP. Mr. President is the President of all who live in Turkey and is responsible for protecting everyone's rights and laws, but instead of doing this, Mr. President has taken on another task. We looked into it this morning, there are 82 notaries in central districts of Ankara, in the center of 67, in Altındağ, in Yenimahalle, in the five of them in Sincan, in the lakebaşalı, and in the first of them in Etimesgut. Notaryism is an honorable profession. Our notaries look around, see what's going on, decide according to what's going on, but without doing this, Mr. President 83. It means he's ambitious for notaryism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0051par0439	Mr. President, he's insulting the President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0052par0440	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0046par0441	Mr. President, 83. If you're notary, you need to read the texts that come your way, not the government that you're going to negotiate tomorrow, but the rights of 76 million. Dear MPs, Mr. Gul has unfortunately made several statements in the past tense. What's he saying? What did Mr. Gul say on May 28, 2011, when he said that social media was especially important at the time of the Arab Spring? In my view, there should be no restrictions on freedom at all. Anyone who wants to, should be able to travel freely on the Internet. Now, your government, Mr. Prime Minister and your supporters, who are trying to get a lobby out of every stone, is now calling the Internet a porn lobby for those who oppose your restrictions, for those who oppose censorship, unfortunately, and for those who oppose censorship. Dear lawmakers, in this case, there is only one word to be said. Mr. Gül should not give the AKP the power of attorney given to him by the Turkish nation. Mr. Gul is the President, not the Deputy Prime Minister. If he still thinks he's the Deputy Prime Minister, I'm warning you, Mr. Gul, you're the President. If you call yourself the Supreme Court, Mr. Gul, I call you here once: Come, put yourself as President once and as President, you must protect the interests of this nation, all 76 million. E, now, you're saying that the government that I'm traveling with on one side of me is a group of other kinds of dialogues on the other side of me, which the Prime Minister described as the service movement called the Hashishis. You're stuck in the middle of nowhere, so you'd better throw the ball at the crown and let the Constitutional Court take care of it. Mr. President, people are seeing everything. You throw the ball as many times as you want, people know whose goal that ball is. By cooperating with the government, signing the laws of censorship, you score a goal in the nation's castle, but remember, Turkish people love football, and they understand football very well. Very soon, hopefully, when the mayor's election comes on March 30th and in the coming months, when that ball comes at the foot of the nation, Mr. President, you'll see how this nation will score in that ball. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0053par0446	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0054par0449	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, salaam alaikum. Dear friends, this censorship issue has been spoken of for centuries. It's been debated since the Abdulhamite era. The period of abuse was mentioned and reached a point in Turkey's history where the two greatest Islamic contractors, Mehmet Akif Ersoy, one of the poets of our Instance March, and the other was Saidi Nursi (Kurddi), Sultan Abdulhamit, became one of the two most defiant individuals who opposed these practices, and today, what is interesting is that one of our columnists in a newspaper has brought this time to the attention with a very bitter expression. Abdulhamit period. We don't want to get into an argument here over Sultan Abdulhamit's personality. Later... a century later... it was discussed, to me, as well as one of the most powerful sultans in Ottoman history, but it came at a very bad time, when the Empire collapsed, but it didn't make the necessary reforms, it didn't make the necessary staff; instead of making a big enough move to get out of that swamp, the daily policies, stock games in the economy -- especially to pay off foreign debt in Europe -- and the spy agency in Europe set a political line with the police to stop the destruction and shut down the opposition as possible, but it didn't stop the opposition. So at that time, from Bediuz Zaman, to Mehmet Akif Ersoya, and again, to the son of Sultan Abdulhamit's sister, to the son of Prince Yadaştin, they said, "This road is not the road, but the way out of it is a new constitution. You know, a long period -- from 1876 to 1908 -- after the First Legacy until the Second Legislature -- was discussed, a new constitution was said to be the way out of this road, to expand freedoms, to transfer powers to the ground. Here's a solution to the public, not only this crisis, but also the social understanding of the crisis, this depression, this depression, this crisis. Well, I'm afraid we're in the same situation today. Our government also says: See, for twelve years, we've done these, these, these, these, these, these: here, the CHP has ruled Turkey over this period, and the MPP has become a coalition partner all this time; we've done these, these, these, these, what more do you want? But looking back, there's no exit project, a total democratization project, a total social compromise project, and no economic policy. Here, in the open, the scissors between imports and exports are in the middle, and I've come here for a long time, and I've explained it by numbers. Instead of promoting production, COBIs, industry, there's no way out of this crisis, there's always contractors around and contractors who don't know what they're doing, and there's no way out. Now, let's come to the censorship motion on this matter. Here we go, ELLI. That's why the writer called it the Abdulhamite era. You can't if you tell me that I'm going to fill the whole place with jurnals, with euphemisms, and with a bureaucracy of your own, and I'm going to cover it up like this, and I'm going to be in power. Let the police be my police, so be the party's police, so be the soldier; and let him not turn the trucks in the church, in the land, in the land of Reyhan. Let the Supreme Court be as I say, let the HSYK be as I say, let Parliament be as I say. Let me gather all the Foreign Affairs personnel, ambassadors, and have them make a campaign to shut down all the schools that you were so proud to speak of until yesterday outside. Dear friends, this is not the way to get anywhere. We need to discuss this in silence. Again, there's no way this country can handle all this fighting inside and out, no matter who's right and who's wrong. In a family, the mother's right, the father's right, the daughter's right, the groom's right or wrong, if there's a fight every day, the first thing parents have to do is tie this fight to a situation, to a solution. It's not about locking up half the kids, beating up half the girls, divorce half the boys, divorce half the boys, throw the brides and grooms out the door. This solution is not the solution. This is not the way to make a social compromise. Now, a new Internet law, that's where we started, our friend said it, confirmed the President. So, what brings you back to change the two amendments in order to change the document that the President has confirmed that hasn't yet arrived in Parliament? Why? So come out and give me a reasonable answer. And we call upon the President here, of course, all our respect... because the President of our country, the elected President, we ask by maintaining the respect of Parliament: Mr. President, look, if I veto this, it would be wrong, and I would be in this fight, and that would not be a good thing. And if I don't veto, those two clauses of yours are wrong. So, what do we do? I'll confirm that, you change that. You can't go into a grocery store like this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0055par0456	This isn't a tent state!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0054par0457	Look, we don't want to get angry, we don't want to scream, we say it in our most calm voice, we don't want to be disrespectful. You're not in a position to do such politics, and it's not something the presidency should do. If these two items that come your way are wrong, you'll veto them, you'll send them, Congress will correct them. If it's true, you've confirmed it, and after two days of your confirmation, this House will never change again. It's disrespectful to you, it's disrespectful to the House itself, and it's disrespectful to the President. If we can't carry out our democratic criticism, then what is our mission? Now, just now for Mr. President, it's 83. The notary was used. You remember that the notary of Chankaya was often used in previous political times, but that's where Chankaya's notary office will sit again. It's about the dignity and determination of the presidents of the Republic. You're not gonna make me say this to you. If you're notary to Chankaya or 83. If you start acting like a notary, the MPs will tell you that, and you won't mind. Mr. President, this time I will be Prime Minister and the next President, and I will remain President, and the other will be Prime Minister, and who will be in charge of this party, and who will run the country next semester, we are in a phase outside this grocery account. The country's a mess. Bureaucracy doesn't listen to anyone. The judge can't control the prosecutor, the prosecutor can't talk to the police, the police won't listen to anyone. The Home Secretary tells a 29-year-old that if they take you into custody, don't be afraid, I'll throw myself in front of you. So, at the time of the country's spikes, of course, the eyes return to Mr. President in stages, and from Mr. President in this period, a policy is expected to bring the country out of this crisis, create a new consensus, create a new consensus, tell everyone to come to their senses when necessary because he has the authority to resenate the Council of Ministers, God forbid, when there is a war, the commander in chief of the armies. Well, if we don't go back there and look at it, who are we going to look at? Mr. President says I can't put myself in the position of the Supreme Court. Well, Mr. President, all we ask is that you put yourself in Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's shoes and put yourself wherever you put them. (Applause from BDP and CHP rows) That's what we expect from you. As I said, we say all our kindness, all our discipline, and we also say this in the press today: Hasan Cemal, Mehmet Alton, Ahmet Altan, Cüneyt Özdemir, many say that after saying these names -- I can increase them -- many say that we have lost our jobs with the Prime Minister's line of Alo Fatih. We have lost our jobs in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and a prime minister in Norway. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0056par0464	Thank you. The People's Movement Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Oktay Soşi, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0057par0467	My esteemed friends, I have come before you to speak in favor of the National Movement Party's research motion on behalf of our group. My dear friends, the National Movement Party wants a thorough investigation of the long-standing censorship issue in Turkey. Actually, it's very serious, very deep, and I want to congratulate our friends on the motion that our democracy -- if it exists -- has stepped on a very important issue of identity. Because, my dear friends, the Justice and Development Party, which has been running our country for 12 years, has been in our minds about where to take the country, which none of us think is the right address -- the National Movement Party wants us to find the answer to that question. But it's a pity to show our fellow Justice and Developmentists in their true dimensions, to show them that the freedom of expression expressed in the motion is, of course, the issue of censorship and censorship, and to explain to them what they believe in the democratic values, to tell them that the facts of Turkey are incompatible, unfortunately, if all of our Turkish and Turkish accents on earth were to come together, there would be no such thing. My dear friends, this is the speaker, Sultan Abdulhamit II. He spoke of Abdulhamit. Even if I don't agree with your evaluations, I'd like to point out that at some point, you're expressing a fact. The most prominent quality of Abdulhamit was that during his 33-year reign, he was a corrupt ruler, and he had the censorship applied in every sense -- including individual media. However, Sultan Abdulhamit had an important and positive dimension, an identity that was different from the facts of Turkey today. At least he had the official censors apply the censorship by hand. However, during the ruling period of the Justice and Development Party, the lowest part of censorship in Turkey -- which I quote to you from literature -- is the lowest form of auto-sensorship system. This system, which has been going on for years, I'm afraid, has changed the Law number 5651, which you took out a few days ago, and unfortunately, you've made it even more severe. You have made it a law to replace Sultan Abdulhamit's censorship officers with the Union of Access Providers and to establish a unit under the name of the Union of Accessors and to implement censorship by the hands of sector members. So, to put it very clearly, you put the media world, the Internet world, everyone who took advantage of freedom of communication to their own friends, so you put a mechanism that made us drown today. I'm afraid, Mr. President, that in no civilized democracy, he has approved and ratified this terrible law, which he could not possibly accept, and while he has just approved it -- as the Hatiman, who spoke before me -- unfortunately, he has agreed with the government in an orderly fashion. I don't think there's any way to this day that any president has agreed to have the law signed by him to be published in the Official Gazette and replaced with the government in a manner that is not yet published in the official newspaper, and that he should engage himself in such a bilateral relationship. Unfortunately, I'd like to express my regret for the fact that our President's presidency has been earmarked for such a record. My dear friends, I have stated that it is now very difficult to respond to the direction in which our freedom of speech is developing in your time, especially in your time. If we ask you, it's all going well, and if we ask ourselves, it's all going very badly. I'm not saying that, my dear friends. Look, Mr. President, who has returned to our homeland today, to journalists who have spoken to him in Hungary, the situation in our media world, of course, in the appropriate manner of the presidency. The journalists ask if you are disturbed by the point of freedom of the press. Mr. President, freedom of press is always the honor of countries in advanced democracies, and it always gives them strength. Let me be clear, if the press is wrong in life, it's different, but universally, freedom of the press is something a country can be proud of. Complaints are growing in that sense. We need to make amends very quickly, he says. My esteemed friends, you all know that the facts of Turkey, described by Mr. President in such a elegant manner, are in a terrible state of shame, as are the international media world and, in particular, organizations related to journalists. We've become so sad that none of us -- not only as a member of the Republic of Turkey, or as a journalist, but as an individual -- I want to express to you that we no longer have the chance to say that freedom of expression exists, which is essential to democracy in Turkey. You, lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party, go to the European Union, the Council of Europe, NATO Parliamentary Assembly and other international institutions. There, I wonder, how can you describe and describe the reality of the media in Turkey, how can you defend it? My friends, before I complete my words, I'd like to tell you where this matter has gotten us today, especially when the Prime Minister is announcing his election statement. Today, Mr. Prime Minister tells the media world, as it is, to put it back on, put it back on, dress it up, turn the bill around, turn the bill around, turn the bill day around, turn the bill around... anyway, one day it'll be asked about the account. My friends, the media in Turkey, censorship in Turkey, has become so dire that there is no next step in any way. At one time, Cemal Abdul Nasser, who ruled Egypt, applied it to his country; he seized all the press, and the state owned all the media. Where did he end up? Finally, an anecdote became described, when any individual who went to buy the newspaper asked for Al-Akhbar (Akhbar) as a newspaper, the dealer would take out a newspaper without a title and stamp it Al-Akhbar on it and take it, and you wanted Al-Akhbar; the other wanted Al-Gomhuria, and then he would take it out and send it on the same paper, saying, "Get the brand of Al-Gomhuria." You've brought Turkey -- I'm so sorry -- to that point. This is nothing compared to the period of Abdulhamit or the period of Abdulaz, which produced the Matbuat Order before him. You're giving us all an embarrassing truth, a period. I'm sorry for this fact, but I have to offer my regrets. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0058par0477	Thank you. Necdet Ünüvar, Adana MP who wants to take a stand against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0480	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I've asked for word against the MHP group proposal. I also pay tribute to our great nation who follow us from Parliament TV. We've seen the party at this time in Parliament that doesn't speak for its own generation, but we've just seen the congressman who doesn't say a word on his own group's recommendation. Mr. Orator has touched on many issues, but only on his own recommendation, so why hasn't he said a word about the establishment of the Parliament's research commission? I congratulate him for bringing this to Parliament history. Now, of course, dear friends, we're in the legislature here, we've got people listening to us, we've got people not listening to us, but I can't really describe it to the congressman if I'm just looking at the council stand or looking at the friends in the Assembly's General Assembly Hall and using insulting statements for them. It could be anybody's job, it could be their demand, or if we're talking about something worth talking about, maybe we can assume that people are listening. So, please, let's not talk about our own MPs. Mr. orator and the following speakers also used statements about our President, who was at the top of the state, that should not be discussed in this General Assembly hall, in the form of the notary of the Chaankaya, and that our President was acting in harmony with the government, either embezzled or made clear. Do we expect the presidents -- expected and requested -- to always, always, fight the government the way they used to, to send every law, to object to everything as soon as possible? So why are we ignoring that negotiation is one of the most fundamental rules of democracy? Mr. President said there were a few problems with the recent Internet arrangement. Those problems come naturally to those involved. And they sent me a lot of friends' information, they sent me their reviews, our MPs from the opposition party told me. He also met with his lawyers and made it clear that there were a few problems.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0060par0486	But despite his troubles, he signed the law, Mr. Unsub.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0487	If -- if we think back -- Mr. President, we can't...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0060par0488	He signed with the promise of redecorating, President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0489	... If he had vetoed it, no one can guarantee this time that he would not be talking to the AK PARTY as to whether there was a conflict between Mr. President and Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0060par0490	No, it can't be!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0491	But, my dear friends, this is a very comprehensive spread of law enforcement, legislation, including 127 articles, including disabled, martyrs, veterans, and many social groups. So, when that law was sent again, when it was sent in the same way, many of our citizens would not get the rights that they should have for a while; at a time when we were so close to the election, it would have been likely to be renegotiated, relegated, and published in the Official Gazette. So, here, Mr. President has made it clear that he refers to one or two troubling points. Mr. Minister of Transport personally met with opposition parties, and the opposition party spokeswoman received a positive opinion. And then the arrangements that some of our lawmakers have personally stated are appropriate came back on the agenda of the House, and we're going to take them out. Dear friends, censorship is a subject that is always spoken of because freedom of speech is one of man's most fundamental rights. Freedom of speech is a very important concept and a very valuable concept in all societies where communication and the anxiety to express its meaning are at the forefront. But freedom of speech is not the only topic that is being brought up today by Internet broadcasts. When writing is invented, we know that when people express their meaning with writing, freedom of expression is again limited or not limited; at the next stage, when radio is invented, radio broadcasts are broadcast over radio; when television comes out, we know that freedom of expression is discussed a lot with these television broadcasts, video broadcasts. And right now, the Internet is our biggest source of news and information in almost all communities. Thus, there is no more subject than discussing the concept of freedom of expression in the publications of such a common instrument. Of course, since the rules in the established media-reports do not quite fit, there are also issues in the Internet that are more often brought up in the Internet, for the ability to create content a little bit easier -- rights violations, human dignity, human dignity, corrosive publications of dignity, the debacle of trade, political, social reputations, the deviating the principles of privacy. For this reason, there are also arrangements for online broadcasts. This is not just an arrangement by Turkey. There are regulations all over the world in all developed, developing, or underdeveloped countries. So there are many arrangements from Germany to Italy, from England to America, from France to Finland. I can also provide detailed information when necessary. But these arrangements, of course, can also vary in line with the specific conditions of that country. Thus, the arrangement made today, approved by our President last night, is to prevent human rights violations in the online environment and maintain privacy in private life, which is clearly ordered by Article 20 of the Constitution, which is an arrangement in this sense. So, it's one thing to have an argument about these things, but when you're arguing about it, it's really appropriate for lawmakers to use a proper statement. Here, of course, media TV has been turned off. It says our friend, but it reflects this message through Parliament TV to the entire nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0061par0497	It's closed. It doesn't say, it's blocked.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0062par0498	Yeah, but how many hours, Congressman? Three days a week, three hours.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0499	Just like Mr. Halaçoglu said, "Twitter has been shut down." "Twitter has been shut down." He calls it "Tweet" from Twitter to deliver his message.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0062par0500	Do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0501	We've seen people in this country before, holding on to Menderes' collar and asking for democracy in this country.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0062par0502	Do you believe that analogy, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0503	Now, what kind of censorship is it that a country's Prime Minister's phone calls are being recorded, and then it's being broadcast publicly from all media-report organs?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0063par0504	Of course, I suppose.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0505	What kind of censorship is that, precious MPs?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0063par0506	It's not about censorship, it's about showing how it's applied.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0507	For him, dear friends, therefore, it is the duty of lawmakers to maintain peace, prosperity, and happiness of the nation, and to ensure that the privacy of its needs be protected, and to prevent the violations of its rights. So, my dear friends, the Internet arrangement is an arrangement that is entirely intended for this, and this arrangement is an arrangement that will allow traffic information to be obtained by the head of the TİB only on the condition of a court order. Also, the law is fully matured by the conditions of the TİB president's decision to avoid the resemination delay again in 24 hours. In that direction, of course, our opposition MPs had some suggestions. In fact, they've been on this stand, and you've really taken our views into consideration. They have to thank the President and the Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0064par0510	We will, we will, we will when the law comes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0059par0511	So, dear friends, freedom of expression is indeed a very valuable concept, but it is necessary to discuss things in a manner that is proper. When we talk here, we also need to talk in a really polite way about people in large, small, or different places who are not in a position to respond to us. So freedom of expression is not talking to us on this stand, given by the state, given by the nation, without any control over everything that comes into our mouths, and the nation is the greatest referee. Mr. Sour has also expressed here. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, it is clear that on March 30th, the nation, the greatest referee, will make the decision. So, any legislature activity we do here will be judged on March 30th. He'll assess it in the next election, just like before that. Let us trust the common sense of the people, and all of us feel the happiness of living in this country, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0065par0514	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0066par0515	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0065par0516	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0066par0519	Mr. President, I'm going to have to make a statement on your honor's speech. In Article 104 of our Constitution, the duties of the President are considered to be the duties of the President. In these tasks, it is written: "It is not the duty of the President to send the law back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for renegotiate, to sign the law, to sign the clause he wants to return, and to meet with the government again. If there is a law that he does not agree to, which he sees a challenge, he will send it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as he wrote in Article 104 of the Constitution, because as the President's legislature, Turkey is dealing with the Grand National Assembly, not the government. Thus, I met with the government and corrected it. So this isn't a tent state. If it is thought that the President has signed this law only to ensure the immediate fulfillment of the rights of certain people, he is not authorized to sign it with such a clause in it. If, therefore, as Mr. Hati said, the adoption of the law is in the interests of some people, then they ask you, is it to butter the pre-election bread of the AKP? So we have to put it out there.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0065par0521	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0067par0523	Mr. President, I'd like word on 69.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0068par0524	Not only does the AK PARTY give authority to the people, the whole nation...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0069par0525	Not the whole nation, where you must act according to the Constitution. It's not your job, it's the President's job, I'm calling the President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0070par0526	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0527	The speaker has just accused me of misleading the nation and has also teased me by calling me the congressman who doesn't speak on his own proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0070par0528	Mr. Oğan, I promise. But I've sent over your speech reports. I'm afraid I have to point out that Mr. President is in a dirty negotiation here. You have a statement like that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0529	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0070par0530	I want you to correct this, otherwise I have to make the necessary decision of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0531	You'll also give him time. I need to fix that. Now I want two minutes of sarcasm, and you're gonna have to give him time.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0070par0532	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0536	Now, valuable lawmakers, our proverbs, our phrases don't require hours of discussion over some things. What's he saying? You know, a mosquito sedation, a drum sedation that doesn't understand.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0072par0538	Well done, you're memorizing, memorize some more.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0539	I have stated how wrong the censorship brought on the Internet here for ten minutes, how the President should not be in this negotiation, and how the censorship is channeling the politics in that sense, in that sense, by means of the "Alo Fatih" (Alo Çankaya) lines. Mr. Orator says you didn't mention anything. It means you're low on drums.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0073par0540	I don't know why...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0541	Well, you're talking about kindness, Mr. Unsub courtesy. Come, stand here with a backbone, where have you put the Prime Minister's medical reports?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0074par0542	You don't know what the hell you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0543	I can't say how kind he is. Tell him here. If you're looking for kindness, you'll have to look after yourself as a power. Who do people look at? He takes care of the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister says where to put it, what kind of courtesy are you talking about, and before you find my statements rude, say a few words to your Prime Minister and say, "Mr. Prime Minister, you must set an example." Come and say it here. If you have any heart, come and sing it here. If you'll excuse me, if you'll give me an extension on the President, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0075par0545	I'll give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0548	See, Mr. President is the President of all the Republic of Turkey. As much as you, the AK PARTI is my President, as are the AKP members. If I'm here after a semester, should I become Prime Minister, or should I stay in the presidency after a term? If I see you in negotiations, I must tell the President not to put yourself in this negotiation. I admit, the statement I used wasn't true, so I'm correcting that statement. The word "dirty" is not the right word. The president is the top office in the country, head of the community. I'm sorry to have to use such a statement, but if the President is the President of all, and he can't negotiate with the Government with the power given to him by the Constitution, if there is a mistake in that law, then he should return it to Parliament, but, no, the time will pass when he returns it to parliament, and if something comes up during that time, the government will be in a difficult position to calculate, then maybe we have to use that statement here, but we have to use it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0075par0549	Mr. Oğan, please apologize for that word.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0071par0550	I said I got my statement back.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0076par0551	Mr. President, he fixed it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0077par0552	He fixed it, what else would he do?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0078par0553	Please, Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0079par0554	No, sir, I've taken my statement back, I've corrected my testimony...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0080par0555	No, Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, he should apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0081par0556	I'm fixing it, I'm saying I'm sorry. He said.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0082par0557	Mr. President, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0083par0558	Congressmans, it's not the government or anyone else, Mr. President. No one has the right to use that word.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0082par0559	You'll apologize. I'm sorry. They'll apologize to the president.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0084par0561	Of course not.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0085par0562	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0082par0563	Mr. President, he needs to apologize to the President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0086par0564	That's where I said I corrected my statement.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0082par0565	I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0086par0566	Wait a minute... The vote is your pleasure, so vote. I told the president that the statement I used wasn't the right expression, that I took it back. If you don't think that's enough, then vote.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0087par0569	Mr. Oğan, please apologize, I repeat.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0088par0570	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, he needs to apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0087par0571	Wait a second...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0089par0572	I made my statement, and here I told the President that my statement was not true. Beyond that, if you think it's inadequate, then vote.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0088par0573	According to the Civil Code, you must apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0087par0574	Mr. Oğan, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0090par0575	Is it that hard to apologize?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0088par0576	According to the Civil Code, he must ask forgiveness and apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0091par0577	I don't want him to ask for forgiveness, I don't want him to ask for forgiveness. Who's asking for forgiveness from whom?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0090par0578	Is it so hard to come back from the mistake, to apologize? Is it that hard to apologize?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0088par0579	Look, it's open, it's open, it's in the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0092par0580	Mr. Ünal, do you have a request?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0093par0581	Then let the Prime Minister come, and where have you put him? Let him apologize. What do you put in what part of the Turkish nation, what do you put in what part of it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0094par0583	You're making this up! Don't make that up. That's not a thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0092par0584	Mr. Oğan, what concerns this place is the words spoken from the council bench.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0095par0585	Mr. President, let's not mix the straw with the handle here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0096par0586	Sit down, what an apology! Let the Prime Minister apologize to the public first.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0095par0587	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0097par0588	Here you go, Mr. Ünal. Mr. Ünal, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0095par0590	Mr. President, he's got statements about our Prime Minister, and the bride is a manly...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0097par0591	Do you have to say that? You won't be mad.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0095par0592	I'd like a word, sir, regarding the testimony he used on our group president.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0097par0593	Here, I promise you two minutes for teasing. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, no hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0095par0598	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, we are not here to determine our speech in anger, in anger, in hate. Of course, the High Assembly has a Civil Charter, and each MP must act according to the Civil Code. Here, Mr. Speaker, by disregarding the Civil Code, vote if you can. Here is the challenge.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0098par0599	If you can vote, vote. He didn't say, vote, vote.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0099par0600	Don't make this about you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0098par0601	He said, "Go ahead and vote."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0100par0602	Besides, if we're talking about something, logic, rationality, intelligence, it requires something. If we're talking about your insult to the President, our President, we'll talk about it first. If we're going to discuss a statement from the Prime Minister or your President or the CHP President, we'll also talk about them. What did your Prime Minister say? What did my Prime Minister say? What did I say to the President? We can't get results or run the House here by creating a crowd of words in a manner of speaking. Here he must address and apologize to the President for the statement he used against the President because of the Civil Code, or the Parliamentary Court of President will have to carry out the internal ordinance of the Supreme Court. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0101par0605	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0606	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0103par0607	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0101par0608	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0609	Now, Mr. President, as you've read the sentence he used in the Hajji speech, the president is involved in the dirty work...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0104par0610	fuckin' deal.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0611	You said the bastard negotiated. Of course, the point here is that you're a lawyer, you know, the regular jobs, the tricky jobs.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0105par0612	Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0613	...we call it the dirty work.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0105par0614	You're the Hatibi's lawyer?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0615	Here... will you please be respectful?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0106par0616	That's right, he's making an alliance.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0105par0617	You're the Hatibi's lawyer?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0618	So I'm talking to the president. Mr. President, would you excuse me, please?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0107par0620	I've given you permission, Mr. Tanal, you're already talking.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0108par0621	You got the power of attorney from him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0622	Now, as you can appreciate here, the events of discipline depend on a complaint, which means a petition must come to your office.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0109par0623	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0110par0624	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0102par0625	It's not right for you to move around here, one. Second: The president's involvement in such tricky, consistent, contractual work is described among the public.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0111par0628	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0112par0629	Mr. Tanal, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0113par0631	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0112par0632	Mr. Halaçoglu, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0114par0633	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0115par0634	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0116par0635	Aren't you ashamed to speak to the President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0117par0636	Did you or did you agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0118par0637	You can't talk here based on your own assumptions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0116par0638	What country do you live in, what country are you a citizen of? Shame!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0117par0639	And you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0119par0640	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0120par0641	If you have information, if you have no information...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0121par0642	What you're saying suits you. And your name is law-enforcement!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0119par0643	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0122par0644	Mr. President, now, our Charter...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0123par0645	No, you're talking about something you don't know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0124par0646	I know it, you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0123par0647	Know what?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0124par0648	Of course I know, you don't.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0125par0649	You say you're a lawyer once in a while.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0126par0650	You're talking the way you think!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0124par0651	And when the people say, "This is a good place to live," they say, "This is a good place to live."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0125par0652	And you say you're a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0127par0653	Yeah, well, you're the one who's making it up, you're making it up.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0654	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0129par0655	Yes, Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0656	Mr. Oğan, because of the word he just used, I took back my words.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0130par0657	He said he was sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0658	He said he was sorry. ...it's already been done.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0131par0660	That doesn't mean sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0661	He's here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0132par0662	Just a second, Congressman...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0133par0663	Ahmet New will decide what it means.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0664	As a matter of fact, if you read the third joke of Article 161 of the Civil Code, it does not mean any insult there. So the President's failure to carry out his constitutional duties there and to take into account the government's decision to sign the law, even though it has clauses he does not approve of. Therefore, a constitutional, law-enforcement president...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0134par0665	Mr. President, let the vice president decide what to do and what not to do.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0666	Please... My brother, of course, has to carry out the Constitution, Mr. President, because everyone has an oath, and I have to fulfill it, and so do you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0135par0668	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0136par0669	Why, are you the president's commissioner?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0128par0670	Therefore, that is not an option.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0137par0671	What are you, his lawyer, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0138par0672	Are you his lawyer?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0139par0673	Yes, we're the President's attorney.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0140par0674	You're the one who brought it up, you're the one who insulted me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0141par0675	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0142par0677	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0141par0678	One moment, Mr. Turkkan, will you sit down?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0143par0679	It says here what insult is, what happens in the 161/3 of the Charter.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0141par0680	Mr. Oğan, I promise you, I beg you, please apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0144par0681	Promise me...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0145par0682	He can do a flip if you want, so if he's not enough, he can do a flip.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0144par0685	Mr. President, if I'd made a statement here to insult the President, it's a virtue to apologize, and I wouldn't hold back from apologizing. I didn't mean a word or a word by insulting the President here. I said that the work being done here would be assessed in terms of the concept of business. And I also said that I took that word back, but if you insist on bringing it to an internal charter issue, and therefore I said, "If you want to make it a matter of the Civil Charter, you can have it, you have the majority." But I didn't mean to insult you, and I also said that I took it back. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0687	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. I didn't want to make it a matter of the Civil Code, I told you for the third time, to apologize, you didn't. Congressmans, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan..
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0147par0693	It's a shame, Mr. President. It's a shame.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0148par0694	You can't do this, you can't do this. So far, there's been all kinds of curses here, and people have just taken it back.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0695	...what he said about the president is a verb that requires temporary removal from Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0148par0696	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0697	I promise, sir, I promise.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0148par0698	Wait, no, let me tell you something first. The fact that people here who swear all kinds of things have only taken back their word...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0700	No, sir, it's happened before with the President, the Civil Code has been enforced. So...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0702	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0703	...Iğdı MP Sinan Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0704	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0705	The Civil Charter...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0706	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, one second, one second...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0707	Congressman, there is no such procedure, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0708	Okay, is that a thing?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0709	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0710	Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0711	I will promise Sinan Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0150par0712	Go ahead, Mr. President, why are you listening?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0713	Mr. President, as acting Speaker, sir, you've apologized to the public for using that word to a journalist, and now you expect him to apologize to the congressman?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0714	Sir, the legislature... the Civil Code is here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0715	Do I have to read the text you wrote?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0716	Therefore, Mr. Sinan Okan....in accordance with Article 163 of the Interior Charter..
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0717	Do I have to read what you wrote?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0718	...I'm going to propose a temporary sentence for the removal of three combinations from the parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0719	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0720	Mr. Oğan, will you defend yourself?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0721	Say you're sorry, too, Mr. Sadik. Mr. President, apologize, too.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0722	Mr. Korkmaz, sit down, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0723	Well, you apologize, too.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0724	Mr. Korkmaz, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0149par0725	I want to hear it, I want to hear it, I want to hear it, apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0726	Sit down.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0151par0727	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0728	I didn't say that between two people...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0152par0729	Apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0730	Just a second, Mr. Korkmaz! I used that word between two people, in a friendly environment, and used a word I used all the time. I apologize to the entire nation if it's offensive. There's nothing to apologize for.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0152par0732	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0733	But it's not.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0152par0734	For the record, then.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0735	For the record, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0152par0736	You're only apologizing with our warning.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0737	Yes, Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0152par0738	You're apologizing on our notice.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0153par0739	He showed his virtue, wished for it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0146par0740	Mr. Oğan, do you want to make a plea? Do you want to make a plea?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0741	I'll do it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0155par0742	Why don't you hang the MPs here with this majority of Congress? What kind of understanding is that?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0743	Mr. President, I've just said, Mr. President is the head of the community. Of course, we will not allow the President to be insulted or insulted outside the House. We need to underline that, once in a while. But you have to explain to me how you view the word "pis haggling" as an insult to what I used here. In a dirty bargain, I took back what you said. I said: I don't mean to insult the president. He's in a negotiation. If you're here to twist my statements by relying on fingers, if you're going to measure my insults by the number of fingers, then you're going to measure it by the number of fingers...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0156par0745	You still insult me by saying "finger."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0157par0746	What you call a congressman, a member of parliament, is a finger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0747	We'll transfer you to the public.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0156par0748	You can't call a congressman a finger, it's a shame. The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0749	Bring the Civil Code, bring the Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary, and whatever you bring, you can't take the word "piss" as an insult. I don't mean to insult you. And I take back the word "pis" that I used, even though I said it. You insist on making it a matter of discussion, and you insist on doing so, Mr. Vice President, politics. We can't possibly accept that here. We don't hesitate to apologize to the Turkish nation or to the person involved if we accidentally say the wrong word, Mr. Vice President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0158par0751	Then apologize.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0752	If we use the wrong expression, we won't hold back. If you're so sensitive about those words, Mr. Prime Minister, where did you put the forensic reports? Come...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0159par0755	That's not what the Prime Minister used.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0756	That's exactly what he said, where are you going to put the medical reports? What does that mean, what does that mean?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0160par0758	Where did he say, where will you put it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0759	So, where are you gonna put it, where are you gonna put it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0160par0760	Where are you going to put it? He said, "Where are you going to put it?" He said, "Where are you going to put it?" Don't twist it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0761	Oh, so...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0161par0762	Mr. Oğan, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0763	Just a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0162par0764	Sir, why are you interfering with his defense? Why are you interfering? Is it right to be such an interventionist? He's defending himself, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0154par0765	If you're here to be a moral guard through all these words, then come back to the swearing that the Prime Minister has formally declared... isn't this the High Assembly? Is the Prime Minister greater than this House? Mr. Deputy President of the Group, is it higher?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0163par0766	The Prime Minister didn't swear at anyone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0164par0767	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0163par0768	You're slandering and twisting.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0165par0769	If you're going to give me that ticket with your finger here, then come here...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0166par0770	You can't call a congressman a finger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0165par0771	Mr. Prime Minister's members of the group, here, let him come, we apologize to the nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0167par0772	Yeah, we can take him to judgment, to judgment. Here's the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0165par0773	The Prime Minister publicly insulted the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0168par0775	You're making it up, you're not.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0165par0776	Come and apologize to the Turkish nation. You'll say, "Take your mother with you." You'll say, "Let's put her in the nation's something."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0169par0778	Either you're going down when you're defending it, or you're going down as you speak.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0170par0779	He's gone off the rails, Mr. President. Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0171par0780	You're surprised.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0169par0781	She was surprised, surprised.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0172par0782	...you will insult the nation after insulting them, and then you will execute morality over the promise of a dirty bargain.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0173par0783	You're twisting, you're twisting. You're making it worse. There's the Civil Code, there's the Civil Code? You're going to trial.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0172par0784	We don't allow your moral hangman here. We're here to see your...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0174par0786	Mr. President, he's still insulting you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0175par0787	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0172par0788	Speech! You shut up! You shut up! We're here to...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0176par0790	Keep insulting me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0177par0791	Listen to what he's talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0172par0792	We're here with your number of fingers...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0176par0793	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0178par0794	The Civil Code applies here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0176par0795	Deputy Director of the Group, take care of your deputy. He's insulting us.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0179par0796	Brother, you'll listen, you'll listen, you'll learn to listen first.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0176par0797	He's still insulting me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0180par0798	Let him tell it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0799	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0182par0800	You're a moral executioner here, you're here to...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0183par0801	He's still insulting me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0802	Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0183par0803	And you're defending him!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0804	Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0184par0805	We'll defend it. You want me to defend you? Defend the thieves? I'll defend him, of course.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0183par0806	Defend...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0807	Please, Mr. New...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0183par0808	Defend your insulting man!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0809	Please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0185par0810	Mr. President, they're not making a plea. Let them.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0181par0811	He's doing it, sir. He's doing it. I'm interfering.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0186par0812	Defend the thief?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0813	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if we're really going to have a spinal stance here...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0188par0814	Let go, let go!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0815	Watch your fucking mouth! Watch your fucking mouth!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0189par0816	Please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0817	You're sitting there, yapping and yapping. Speech!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0190par0819	You're being a bully, bully.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0820	Shut the fuck up! Speech! You're rude!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0191par0822	Mr. Can, why are you interfering? Mr. Can, please... why are you interfering?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0823	What is this?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0192par0824	Yeah, what kind of a goat is that? He thinks he's a saint, and he's a fool, and he insults everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0187par0825	Now, the finger...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0192par0826	What kind of a goat is that, Mr. President? What kind of a goat is this?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0193par0827	So, what am I supposed to do, lawmakers? I'm warning everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0192par0828	How about a goat like that?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0194par0829	Well, then, Group President, shut your friends up, and I'll do my defense here, if you have any words, speak here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0192par0830	You're insulting me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0194par0831	Who am I insulting? What did I tell who?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0192par0832	You're saying "finger." Do you have the right to call these people "fingers"?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0194par0833	Here's the transcripts. Whoever interrupts me from there, who insults me from there, we will surely answer here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0195par0834	Mr. Mahir, let him defend himself, why are you interfering?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0194par0835	So, again, if you're a moral executioner, come and take a dignified stand. You're going to give me the ticket here, hand it over, but let one of you, one of you, and one of you, with dignity, tell me to come here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0196par0836	We've all got dignity!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0197par0837	Everyone has dignity, you take care of yourself, everyone has dignity.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0196par0838	We're all honorable people. You can't talk about my dignity.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0198par0839	Let him come from here and say, "Where will you put the Prime Minister's medical records?" The word is immoral.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0197par0840	The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0196par0841	You can't speak without insults.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0198par0842	Let one of you say here that the Prime Minister has insulted the Turkish nation. Instead, we apologize from here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0197par0843	He didn't, the Prime Minister doesn't insult anyone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0196par0844	What's that got to do with it? We're talking about your insult here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0199par0845	Why are you making this up? Why are you bringing people in?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0200par0846	But I don't see any young man here who would come and correct the Prime Minister's insult except to claim it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0201par0847	Apologize! We're all young men.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0200par0848	I didn't say what I said. I didn't mean what I said. I didn't mean what I said.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0202par0849	That's an insult.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0200par0850	So it's out of the question for me to apologize to someone I didn't insult. But if the word "piss" is inappropriate here, I take it back. Other than that, I didn't insult the President, and there's no way I'm apologizing to the person I didn't insult. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0203par0853	Mr. Oğan, please, look, you have your word back.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0200par0854	I take it back.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0204par0855	Mr. President, it's a shame, really!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0203par0856	Mr. President in the middle, but I beg you, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0204par0857	It's not the way of the House.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0205par0858	Mr. President, that means you have to apologize anyway.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0206par0859	Mr. Vice President, you're extending. The word "dirty" is not an insult to the Civil Code. You're prolonging this.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0204par0861	What more could he say?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0207par0862	I took it back. It says.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0208par0863	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0204par0864	What else does he have to say to satisfy you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0209par0865	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0210par0866	What does that mean? What does that mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0211par0867	Mr. President, let's shoot him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0209par0869	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0212par0870	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0209par0871	Mr. President, as far as I can see, both the speaker and the speaker on the stand, my intention was not insulting. He used the sentence.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0213par0872	What's going on with you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0214par0873	Aah! Show some respect, bro!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0215par0874	It's the vice president of the group!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0216par0875	Please, Congressmans, the group's deputy president will, of course, ask for a word, speak for it. Then let's not make him talk.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0217par0876	I defend the law of every MP, and I defend your law. He said, "It didn't fall off." And he said, "I took it back." At this point, Your Honor, it is not appropriate for you to offer the speaker a punishment, Mr. President. Because Mr. President, I took it back, that's not what I meant. He said, "The slip of the tongue has always happened on this bench." So I want you to withdraw your plea offer.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0218par0877	He says there's no slip of the tongue, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0219par0878	I mean, I don't apologize, I insult the President. That is far worse.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0217par0879	Otherwise, I demand that you open up a legal debate on your attitude according to 63, please consider all of this. I mean, the speaker has clearly praised his attitude, his understanding, the presidency's office, and the President here a moment ago. And yet you can't offer punishment.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0219par0880	One more sentence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0220par0881	Well, if it's meant to be, I apologize. Say, "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0221par0883	Yeah, you're still saying that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0220par0884	Please, Mr. Lawmakers, why are you objecting? Shouldn't we talk to Mr. Oğan?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0222par0885	Mr. President, the Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0223par0886	Mr. President, if I agree to apologize...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0220par0887	Mr. Oğan, if there's any blame, say, "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0223par0888	Excuse me, excuse me. ...I'll be insulting the president. I don't want to insult the President by saying I'm sorry, by saying I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0220par0890	Mr. Oğan... one second... Please, I'm sorry if there's any blame.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0224par0892	He didn't say that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0220par0893	I'm sorry if there's a penalty. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0225par0894	No, it's not like that! No. He said he didn't. He said he didn't. Mr. Mahir, I don't mean to insult you. What more do you want?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0226par0895	I don't mean insult.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0227par0896	He didn't apologize, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0225par0897	Oh, man, do I have to use your words? I took it back. He said, it's over. Dude, he's taken it back 10 times.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit01spe0228par0899	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit02spe0228par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Oğan, please enter the system.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit02spe0229par0003	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. President is the head of the community, and for us, the president is important. The MPs of the National Movement Party would never, ever insult the head of the community. I have just stated that I do not insult the President, that we will not insult him, and that we will not allow him to be insulted, and that I have even retracted my words, but it seems that some may have considered it an insult, so it may have been understood. I don't apologize to Mr. President for not insulting him in that sense, but if there are those who mean to insult my word, then I apologize to Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit02spe0228par0006	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Oğan, I take it back because you didn't mean to insult me, and if it was also understood that way, he apologized. I'd like to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-19sit02spe0230par0013	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit02spe0228par0014	I'll call. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0228par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist movement group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the proposal back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting on Wednesday (June 19/2/2014), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. İzmir MP Aytun Çıray and his friends issued a parliamentary research proposal, which was submitted to Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 18/2/2014 to investigate the internal and external political destruction of the legal path of the Prime Minister and the parallel party state that led him into Turkey (1297 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's 19/2/2014 jointly and held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Aytun Çıray, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0231par0017	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the social and political consequences of travel events, the sighting of signs of economic crisis starting to give clues, unprecedented corruption investigations have begun to disrupt the plans of the Prime Minister, who is seeking the presidency. The Prime Minister then issued an HSYK Act that would investigate the forces' unity. Now, if Mr. President doesn't veto the HSYK Act, the only party the Prime Minister intends to establish will be to investigate the state, so we will witness the most advanced step in history. This will pave the way for the Prime Minister, who is trapped inside, to trade our national honor and high interests for imported legitimacy, as is now being done in Cyprus. Dear lawmakers also determine the attitudes of people in domestic and foreign policy. The story of how the Prime Minister and his poor Foreign Minister wanted to make bread out of Cyprus is in their mind. Cyprus is an island of extraordinary strategic importance in the eastern Mediterranean. Its history has already demonstrated the military, political value of Cyprus. However, the search for natural gas and oil conducted by Israel and the Greek Cypriot administration in the Eastern Mediterranean has brought an economic scale to Cyprus's strategic value. In the eastern Mediterranean, 685 billion cubic metres of natural gas were found in the drilling fields of Israel, called Tamara and Leviathan. Drills in the region between Israel and Cyprus have also yielded very promising results. In this great energy game, the forces we're allied with want to clarify the status of Cyprus, guarantee the security of Israel, because energy games do not accept security deficits. That is why the Annan Plan of Cyprus is undermining the launch of a new negotiation process after a decade has passed since the Greek people's endless appetites. But these facts are not new. So, notice the timing of the negotiations, a period where the Prime Minister is looking outside for the legitimacy he lost inside. The claim that the real knowledge of corruption, destructive corruption, is in the saddlebags of the Westerners is also very worrying. So, basically, the Westerners are going to do their Cyprus talks with a hostage Prime Minister and his poor Foreign Minister. I address the Turkish nation here: In Cyprus, which has been considered our national cause since 1954, the Greeks discuss every step they make on the national councils during the most difficult years of both the Greek and Greek part, while ours follow the order of the joint statement and hide these talks from the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Dear friends, do you know who is most pleased with these meetings? Archbishop II. Hrisostomos. The Archbishop says: "Give all parties your support to get out of the referendum this time." Why? Let's say in the joint statement, there is no concept of co-founding even in the Annan Plan. The Constitution of 1960 has no two-digits, no two sovereignty. If there's going to be a single society, not two, then the natural consequence is that the Turks' right to garantism has been eliminated. So, that means Enosis is to be carried out in the European Union basket. The Justice and Development Party Group is not as interested as the previous President's debate on Enosis's implementation in the European Union basket. Now, what does Davutoglu say about this joint statement? This text is a text that reveals the framework of negotiations. It says, well! At this rate, the spirit of Erbakan will strike this Davutoglu. Dear friends, I understand that our economic, democratic and political allies -- the United States and the EU -- are effectively pushing for their interests. But what I don't understand is that our allies, who we're fighting shoulder to shoulder, are trying to take full advantage of the Party for Justice and Development's political support. Our allies, based on the highest legal and democratic standards for their own nations, have begun to commend a tyrant's understanding that they criticize behind closed doors. The reason for this is obvious; there is a power that ignores Turkey's interests in order to prolong its political life, and the Prime Minister considers himself indispensable to Westerners just because of this compromise. It's the truth behind the theater. That is why nine of our citizens died in the so - called jihad campaign against Israel in the Blue Marmara. This scenario is behind AKP's efforts to ratify the Annan Plan. After Gaddafi's death in Libya, leaving him to die in the most immoral manner, that's the result of this verse, not to mention what happened after the joint cabinet of ministers in Syria. It's also the natural consequence of this seed to put honor aside and establish a tyranny regime in order to maintain its own power. Now, this veil is trying to do what it's supposed to do, no doubt, but time will carry out its judgment, and we will pour out the scales that hide the hidden essence of this landscape. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to address our global allies here who are proud of their values and who have the power of law, and I think it's best to remind them of our common values: Friends, give up policies that will delay the insight of a political understanding, which destroys philosophy, art, politics, economic values that you care so much about, because these policies are doing a lot of damage to the Turkish nation. These policies delay the meeting of the Turkish nation against the Justice and Development Party. The Latins who make up your roots have a saying: "The truth will set you free." We are now a nation fighting for freedom. Come, make all these negotiations with free people. No matter how appropriate your interests may be, do not extend the branch to the actors of the tyranny regime. Doing so is no different than delaying the Dating of Normandy, which allowed Hitler to buy time during World War II. Dear allies, by doing so, our interests may seem greater, but it shouldn't be more important than winning the hatred of future generations. It's not good, it's not good for you to want to take full advantage of the desperation and fear of the power mentality; it's not good for you, it's not good for Israel in the region, it's not for the Greek Cypriots in the economic crisis. If the damage is irreparable for the Turkish nation and concreteized in this Cyprus, perhaps you will be the most responsible. Don't make it any heavier than it already is for a nation to pay. So you can prevent both the painful consequences of this and the Turkish nation that has been walking with you on the modernisation project for the past two hundred years. As for CHP's opinion, we favour all kinds of fair and national compromises, but we will in no way support the negotiations made by this government, which has lifted TPAO's right to seek oil on behalf of the state, who has framed our navy to protect our sovereignty in the Mediterranean, and who thinks that the prince will protect the rights with his ships. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0232par0033	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Harun Karaca, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0036	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of my group regarding the CHP group proposal. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. First of all, I'd like to share with you a few issues about who I was yesterday about who was the spokesman for a newspaper. Because when I read that article, I went, "What's the right thing to do?" And I came across a line of truth, and that's what's written in the article there, as my MP. Now, here, I, of course, have spoken to court decisions about this matter before. I'd like to have these court decisions, and I'd like these fellow journalists to look at them and write them accordingly. Besides, there's a whole lot of originals in court decisions here. I find it absurd that a court that began in 1999 and ended in January 2003 was recooked as if the defendant were under arrest and brought up today. Because in all these cases, over 300 people were tried, and at the end of these trials, they were all acquitted. I'd like to express this to your grand delegation and to our beloved nation who sees us on their television screens. Democracy...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0234par0040	Which case, Congressman? What case is this?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0041	I'm talking about the case against the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality in 1999...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0235par0042	Oh, the one about the rahshan pardon.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0236par0043	Mr. Karaca, please address the General Assembly on the matter.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0044	So I'll answer your questions. I'm talking about the case that was filed in 1999 at the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0237par0045	You were in it. You're involved in every single event.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0046	I'm not going to answer you because I don't want to talk to you. Democracy is the most fundamental legitimacy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0238par0048	Take the courts.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0239par0049	Who is your innocence known to?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0050	I'll tell you if you're patient. The task of legitimate politics is to expand this area with its power, its opposition, its entire civil mechanisms. From the founding of our party to today, the goal was to expand the areas of democracy and freedom to all parts of society. We've had a travel park where we've acted on the basis of freedom from the idea of democracy, which makes society and the country pay irreparable costs. The whole community has witnessed the events caused by malicious people hiding behind the sensibilities of our sincere people who act with environmental sensibilities. We have all seen how CHP called people to law and democracy on a national matter. Is this your participatory democracy? I'd like to point out that we didn't allow those who wanted to take politics hostage with Travel Park, and we won't let them, because Turkey didn't come to these days easily; it came in great pain and blood and tears. We didn't come to this day to be bandits in Hocha, and to be marauders in Gezi. I don't need to tell you from here the meaning of the thief and the bandit in particular. It means those who are corrupt. So we're in Turkey together. This land is our only duty to protect and protect this land. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0240par0054	Cyprus, Cyprus. Tell me about him. What are you talking about? Cypriot day.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0055	If you look at your motion... your motion is in front of me. If you look at your proposal, you'll know what I'm talking about. Our people know very well that this is not a matter of three or five trees. I'm surprised the people who are responsible still don't understand it when our people understand it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0241par0057	It's a matter of three or five trees. Who's to say?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0058	Those who called us enemies of the environment, while our Prime Minister wanted to work hard to protect the trees and the environment, they didn't make a sound with regret about how the place of Koç University was taken from Sarıyer City in one night and turned it into Bahçköy Municipality, and many trees were cut down. I'm going to show you a newspaper clipping of the May 27th 1960 conflict, especially from behind the scenes of the Travel Park events. This should get your attention.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0242par0059	Fifty-four years ago.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0243par0060	Get over it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0061	Because, because...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0244par0062	Come to this day, to this day!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0063	Because with the sponsor of the Travel Park events, May 27th, 1960...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0245par0064	You're way behind.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0065	Why don't you wait?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0246par0066	Tell us the truth and we'll be patient. Do we have to listen to this?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0067	Regarding the events of May 27th, 1960, about the revolution, about the coup, look at this. I, look, I read your motion. If you look at your motion, you'll see that all of this has something to do with the motion. On May 27th, 1960, he made a headline like this. He says that the Turkish army of heroes took over the entire country last night at dawn. There's a story here that interests me. I'd like to read this to you in particular. ▪ Migros and soldiers will provide the needs of the people. We also see them in the Travel Park, and we see them here, unfortunately.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0247par0070	What happened at the Travel Park?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0071	" Migros and the soldiers will provide for the people, " he says. You're probably smart enough to figure it out. Although about fifty-five years have passed, we see that this mentality is still invigorating. Doesn't that make sense?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0248par0073	This election is a Kilar market, my dear, so don't let Migros do it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0074	Dear MPs, we have a Prime Minister who embraces the hunger, the poor, the orphans, the color of his skin, the harmony of his tongue with mercy, the voice of the poor, for the sake of God alone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0248par0075	Oh, thank God! What orphans?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0076	Our Prime Minister, who struggles to improve our nation's living standards in our country and in the world, knows and knows all the underdogs, even though the minority doesn't recognize those who are eager for power.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0248par0077	Thank God!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0078	Our Prime Minister is working day and night for this nation, no matter how many 76 million of our people, and we are behind our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0249par0079	Stay behind him, no one will say anything.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0080	We know that if the imam breaks, the rosary breaks.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0250par0081	That's what you're afraid of. He's afraid the rosary will fall apart.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0082	This nation will never, ever let go of its imposition, which it has given power to by prayer. Keep walking happy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0250par0083	You're afraid the rosary will fall apart.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0084	Dear President, members of lawmakers, we all see that deep forces in domestic and foreign politics, media and capital want to prevent the rise of the new Turkey. Thankfully, the Turkish nation of Necip never cared or cared about the tension and concern that was created against the people who had been enlightened. In those days, you remember, when the Travel Park incident started, there were a lot of lies on social media. Thousands of people believed in this false news went out into the streets, provocations became competing with each other.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0250par0086	Isn't that a lie about the Blush? They drank at the mosque. Is that a lie?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0087	Can you imagine, we've seen a woman who says she's a mufti wife? I'm sorry to say later that she is the mistress of a former district president of the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0251par0088	At least don't talk about it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0250par0089	What about the lie that they drank at the mosque?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0090	And we are proud to know that our Prime Minister is acting with the power he has taken from the nation. Thankfully, he knows the reflexes, the mother lode, and the feeling of this country, and in return, our necipation nation, stay sharp, don't lean! These people are with you! They are not just the common voice of our country, but of the oppressed all over the world.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0252par0091	Pay me $630 million.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0092	Troubled by Turkey's success, those who failed to attract Turkey's commitment to becoming an ideal state tried to discredit our national will with illegal demonstrations and actions. But through our government and our party, the belief in democracy is complete, the power of a national will, these and such games have been broken. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you a few election promises when Mr. Kilicdaroglu, president of the Main Opposition Party, is running for mayor: One of them, when he is a candidate for İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, you will remember, I will make bus fees at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality at $1. Second, he said, "I'm going to build 80 kilometers of subway." Third, I will pay every poor person a minimum wage of $600, and each house will have one insured, he said.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0253par0094	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0095	That's right, that's right, that's right...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0254par0096	It's still our promise. Hopefully, we'll do it when we get to power.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0097	I'm curious, too. I'm asking you how many poor people you've been paying here at Izmir Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0255par0098	We didn't say Izmir. We said Istanbul.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0099	What about the Izmir subway? Look, a poet, a friend on social media, wrote a nice article, and I liked it, he said: "Love should be like an Izmir subway, it shouldn't ever end." (Applause from the AK PARTY desks) So you made a new recipe for love.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0256par0101	Come to the Ankara subway, to the Ankara subway. What about the Ankara subway?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0102	Plus, I checked Izmir -- bus prices -- smaller than Istanbul. He must have kept his promise and instructed Izmir Metropolitan Municipality to cut prices.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0257par0103	Come to Cyprus, Cyprus. We're talking about Cyprus.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0104	Turkey's most expensive bus price is $2, Turkey's most expensive bus price is in İzmir. No wages for the poor. After that, I pass. About Cyprus...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0258par0105	They do not believe.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0106	They don't believe... I'm just saying, look. The master said a very good thing: My silence is of dignity, I have an answer for every word, But I'd like to know if there's anything I can say. And I'll see if it's a man. I'm finishing my vows.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0259par0112	Yeah... turn in the mirror and look at yourself.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0113	Don't worry about Cyprus. Our seed is the seed of our people, so do not be afraid. We've come seven times with an election, and hopefully we'll keep coming.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0260par0115	You're Enosists! You couldn't answer. I told you, one of you didn't answer. I'll tell you what else, you're partners with Enosis.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0233par0116	We leave Enosis to you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0260par0117	You haven't said a word about Cyprus. Pity!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0261par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0262par0119	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0261par0120	First of all, I'll take a look at what he's saying. Who does he mean by that? He's got to come out there and say it like a man. And he's got to come out and tell me who these people are, who they're not, who they say they are. In addition, the president of our party, by name, has also made a mockery of it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0262par0121	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0261par0125	Thank you. Now, I don't understand the promise of elections in the 2009 local elections for the Izmir subway, but I recommend that the Congressman come in here and talk, but also check his memory a little bit. Our promise to every poor person, a social security institution, is not the promise of a municipal election, it's the promise of a 2011 general election. He is. I'd be delighted if someone could explain to me the difference between the Ýzmir subway and the Ankara subway. However, Gezi began with Gezi, the deputy and did an ungenerous job: I couldn't make a group of Turkish national economies equal to the people, the environments, the focus that prevented Turkey's development. That group has been the engine of the Turkish national economy since the beginning of the republic, and it still is. I want to underline that, too. I'm the wife of the former mufti, the woman who identified herself as a Republican, just as you can't close the money cases, the money counting machines, the $4.5 million in the shoebox, the $1.5 million in the chocolate box, and the millions in the clothes hanger. The travel events will not allow you to shut it down, but it will lead to a very public surveillance, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0263par0130	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0131	Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0263par0132	Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0133	I was the speaker before the speaker. I look at the speaker's words by saying whether he is a man or not. There can be no one but me, which means "he is a man."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0265par0134	He read poetry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0135	That's why I have to answer.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0266par0136	But the name didn't mention it, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0137	That's a harsh thing to say.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0266par0138	Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0139	I mean, in this country...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0266par0140	Here you go, Mr. Cherry, two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0267par0142	Why did you promise, Mr. President? No, he read poetry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0143	Now you listen to what I have to say. Now, a columnist wrote today, saying that the famous slanderous lady, the one the Prime Minister said at the group meetings, had me crushed and beaten by 150 people. A writer has found something tremendous, in fact I've come to help you now, see, let me teach you what to say as a physician. He says this lady had postpartum depression because she gave birth a few months ago. That's why he made false statements - 150 people who were coming out of the ship - 150 naked men who came in, and he perceived that he had struck him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0268par0145	Who said that? Which doctor told you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0146	No, this is written by Mr. Fehmi, Fehmi Kork.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0269par0147	Shame, shame. That doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0268par0148	Look, you're saying you're a physician. That's not very doctorly.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0149	Now, listen, fellas, as a physician, Don't call the minister's children or even the ministers "the thief." It's a shame, because they're kleptomaniacs, medically. From now on, don't call the people who put money in the boxes corrupt, because they have dyspozophobia, which means they have savings disease.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0269par0150	I'll tell you something.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0151	Guys, don't accuse government officials of lying, because they're mythomaniacs, so they all have medical grounds. Basically, we're talking about innocents and patients, and we're saying it wrong. From now on, why don't you read these transcripts while you're defending yourself, but shall I tell you what doesn't look good?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0269par0152	It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0264par0153	In this country, you're the one who performs the Enosis that the bishops can't do, and you haven't answered me a word. You're in the middle of the Cyprus area, and you have no objection to that? Do you have no objection to your own government? Read the joint work text. If you want to go back after that joint work text and look at this Turkish nation for the benefit and safety of its nation, may it be lawful for you to do so!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0270par0155	You stay with your wishful thinking.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0271par0156	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0272par0157	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0271par0158	Here you are, Mr. Karaca. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0272par0159	Mr. President, about not stating the facts, Mr. Group Vice President, with İzmir...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0273par0160	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0272par0161	...Mr. Kilicdaroglu said it was the general election of his promises. I'd like to give you some insight into that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0274par0162	Mr. Karaca, this isn't teasing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0275par0163	He said you gave him false information.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0276par0164	He said you gave him false information, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0165	He made an accusation that I gave him false information.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0278par0166	You gave me the wrong information in the first place, fix what?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0279par0167	Here you are, Mr. Karaca, and I promise you for two minutes, because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0170	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, our dear nation, and now, first of all, I thank Mr. Deputy Director of the Group here because even he realizes that there are no promises that can't be made, and he says from here...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0280par0171	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0281par0172	City Hall... don't get twisted!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0173	If you'll just be patient, I'll tell you. Not... not at City Hall, right?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0282par0174	Come to Cyprus, Cyprus.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0175	Not at City Hall, right? Not at City Hall.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0282par0176	Come to Cyprus, Cyprus.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0177	You're right, I'm saying the same thing, not in the city.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0282par0178	You're playing with the fate of this nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0179	Open the Radical newspaper of March 5, 2009 -- right before you is the Internet -- where you will see Mr. Kilicdaroglu's promises, you will see this about his 2009 local elections. I agree with you that there are no such promises in the local elections, but with no support, there are such promises.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0283par0181	Which oil company are you partners in?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0182	That's why I wanted to enlighten you from here. Secondly...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0283par0184	Which oil company are you partners in?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0185	Look, why are you jumping? Second: In the 2009 election, I...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0283par0187	Which oil station do you share?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0284par0188	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0189	Look, even if you try not to get me to talk, I will. Don't worry, I will.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0285par0190	An investigation into Cyprus... what's your opinion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0191	Besides, he's the one who went through a lady's head...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0285par0192	Are we not allowed to talk about the Blur?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0193	I'd like to express my regrets to you, indeed, for your expression here in this way.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0285par0194	Come to Cyprus, Cyprus.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0277par0195	If you need a script, I gave you a live script. The wife of the former president of the Republican People's Party has made such a scenario, and she has been active in this scenario, and we've all seen it on TV. I want to express my sadness from here. I salute the High Council again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0286par0198	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Yusef Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0287par0204	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Republican People's Party's parliamentary inquiry motion. Dear lawmakers, we're now learning from the Prime Minister that it's a parallel organization that acts violently in travel events. The face that sprayed pepper spray on the woman in red on the trip was not from the Riot Force, but was never identified. In the events on Istiklal Street, the chiefs purposely ordered the shooting without a target. So, where is the Prime Minister who said all this today? Master went abroad today while all this was going on. By interfering with the media there, he censored it against Article 28 of the Constitution, but the prime minister made an unfortunate statement that would bring the society down against each other, as they kept 50 per cent at home during the travel events. In the events of the expedition, you wrote to the security forces of violence that crossed borders with those involved with their child. The Prime Minister, astonished, after 17 December, he began to accuse the praises he had made as a parallel organization. He attacked thousands of security guards. How is it that after December 17th, he gave his title to the gang, saying that he had prevented a coup and that he would not be in the way of democracy today with these being cleaned up? Again, it is odd that, on the evening of September 12, 2010, the Prime Minister addressed an enthusiastic crowd from the AKP's presidential balcony: "We are happy that we have raised the bar of democracy, law, justice by hand." I congratulate all my brothers from all over the world, from across the ocean, who have supported this process. Again, Judges and Prosecutors have announced that they have made the structure of the Supreme Council fit for its functioning in democratic countries, that the period of participation in the judiciary is now under way, that the Minister of Justice has now handed over many of its powers. The reason for the HSYK Law also states that the review board is linked to the HSYK, that the Justice Minister's powers to be handed over to the board on the matter of auditing and investigation procedures concerning judges are largely transferred to the board, that the board is organised as an independent council, that it is able to carry out its duties, and that no body, authority, position, or person can give orders and instructions to the board. Three years have passed, not December 16th, but December 17th, and suddenly, the Prime Minister has given up what he said and said that he had done wrong, offering to change the structure of HSYK. He was cheating on the Turkish nation once again, Prime Minister. Moreover, the prime minister accused the opposition of supporting coup management and coupters, while describing the changes made with the 2010 referendum as the necessary changes to the EU process. Do we believe yesterday's Prime Minister or today's Prime Minister's words? Frankly, if what you said yesterday isn't true, how do you want us to believe what you said today? In fact, when are you going to stop deceiving the great Turkish nation, which you call my people, but you can't tell which nation it is? Yes, as for another national issue in Cyprus, in 2004, he had a referendum held on Cyprus as a government. In this regard, the prime minister spoke on the telephones to the late Cypriot president who said he was crying for grief at the time of Cyprus's declaration of independence and said so openly on TV, talking about how to take down former Cypriot President and late Denktas. At the referendum, the Greek side said no. The Cyprus issue was saved. Otherwise, Turkey would not be a Cyprus issue today. Now, especially because of Cyprus' energy wealth, a new plan -- a plan to stone even the Annan Plan -- entered the United States, and began to conduct a policy on gas wells south of Cyprus, which had a huge reserve. Mr. Prime Minister, don't make a mistake like in BOP. Do not abandon Cyprus, just as our islands in the Aegean are occupied by Greece, but you have shown no reaction. Remember, with Piri Reis, we know very well how you turned into a milk-soaked cat after the days when you sent the seismic research ship and rained and roared. Where's the Piri Reis ship now? Have any research been conducted in Cyprus? It wasn't done. Well, in research in the Southern Cyprus area, I thought it was sanctioned, was it a cause of war? What did you do? You didn't make any transactions. Today, you are in the midst of Greek Cypriot plans by the Greek Cypriot community, or rather the United States, to sell Cyprus to the Greeks again, with a bribe to Turkey, such as the sale of the gas to Europe through Turkey. Here you are presented with the subsequent withdrawal of Cyprus for the development and correction of the Turkish-Israel cooperation. Dear MPs, I want to warn you again from here, today, I want to inform you of a very important situation in Cyprus. 70 per cent of Cyprus is a foundation, and these foundations are mostly owned by Lala Mustafa Pasha and Abdullah Pasha. Even the Dikelya and Agrotur bases are the site of the Abdullah Pasha Foundation. 78% of Maraş is owned by the Abdullah Pasha Foundation, and in 1913 these foundations were given to the Greeks by the British. Their ledgers are in Cyprus. There's no way you wouldn't know about the foundation land when you're giving away the foundation land here. These are decent foundations, these foundations are non-negotiable, non-transmittable, non-existent foundations. The Greek Cypriot side will pay the Turkish Cypriots and pay the owners $100 billion if you find their heirs and submit them to the court. By combining Cyprus, you will have officially sold Cyprus - or rather, under name - and you will not have used this leverage. I repeat, do not sacrifice Cyprus to U.S. policies as it did in 2004. See what you've done wrong and don't repeat it. Cyprus today has an independent country, a Turkish republic. Keep it in your hands somehow. If you lose this, you will land Turkey's ship. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0288par0214	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. The CHP's group proposal is mainly based on travel events, the European Union, the government's stuck in these areas, so it's going through assessments in the way it's after other things. There are two sentences related to Cyprus, but Aytun Bey based his speech here mainly on Cyprus. I will first say a few sentences about Cyprus and then speak in accordance with the nature of the motion. The Cyprus issue has been on Turkey's agenda for over sixty years. Since foreign policy became an important element of politics, it has been a very provocative issue used by the opposition. Your opposition, yesterday and today. For many years, politics was carried out in the form of a very provocative nationalism and a language that would seduce people in Asia Minor, that would tempt them, that would be given Cyprus, that we would give up our rights in Cyprus. This is not a new political language. When it comes down to it, the friends here are expressing good judgment that no government has ever been betrayed, not sold the country, not against the interests of this nation, whether it is from the opposition or from power. But when specific issues come up, we sell them to the European Union, we sell them to the United States. I don't find them very appropriate. I'm sure it's true today, just as it was said by my mind, that no government would judge the country against the nation, which was said from time to time. Here I see the power as part of the traditional opposition language, which puts such a binding language in the framework of its policies on Cyprus. There was a referendum in 2004, that's right. The Greeks objected to the Annan Plan. And the Turks said, "Yes." If that plan had passed, we'd be walking in a different valley today. We've been holding Cyprus as an issue for over sixty years. Probably won't be a problem for another 60 years. It must be resolved on a rational level in the interest of Turkey and the Turks living in Cyprus. To ensure this solution, of course, we'll negotiate, not indecision. In this negotiation, this provocative language does not benefit at all. I don't think politics is appropriate, because it's always a problem on the shelf -- there's a cliche in the fingernail -- there's a cliche like that. Dear friends, the events of the trip are the backbone of this motion. Once again, I ask God's mercy for those who lost their lives on the trip. Everyone's pain, everyone's pain in this country is our pain. Being a nation isn't just about what we are, it's about what we want to be. I'm sure everyone here has the will, the will, the will to act around a common destiny and a common roof, beyond political differences, sects, ethnic differences, about what we want to be. We support that, that's our attitude, that's our approach. The debate on travel events, dear friends, is to get politics off the street, organize politics on the street, make Parliament not functioning on the street. I see demonstrations in democratic countries as a part of democracy -- not to be violent, not to be provocative, not to turn into Vandalism -- but destructive street movements, inflammatory...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0224	What move?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0225	If they want to be transformed into a political exchange of results, a number, a social trauma, that's getting out of the democracy we're talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0226	So, the Travelers invaded Parliament? Hodja, come on, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0227	Look, Mr. President, Mr. Kilicdaroglu was traveling in İzmir. The merchant there said, "I was very interested: you too must go out into the street. Go out into the street and look for your rights. Dear friends...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0229	Right. It's natural to seek rights, it's in democracies. You're telling me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0230	That's right. You're saying...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0231	You're saying it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0232	Dear friends, for a moment imagine Mr. General President telling the truth, admitting that the 75 million in Turkey were telling the truth, and everyone went out on the street. What's it gonna be? You say he's right. But when everyone's out on the street, when everyone's out on the street looking for rights...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0233	And you'll listen to those who go out into the street, and you'll give up the wrong, and that's Turkish.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0234	...we're going to solve power relations on the street looking for rights? Why do you have this Parliament?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0290par0235	You don't talk in Parliament, you don't talk in the street.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0291par0236	Yeah, it's better than looking for rights in jail.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0237	Why do you have this Parliament?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0291par0238	It's better than looking for rights in jail, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0239	If you look at the history of this Parliament, human history, the power relations...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0240	Isn't he entitled to a demonstration, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0241	Showtime's one thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0242	What's different, how's different? He's going to tell us what he thinks he's going to do. That's not possible.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0243	There's a more refined, more civilized way to resolve power relationships, where we understand each other. If we transfer power relations to the street, there's only going to be conflict on the street. There's no way out of the street in favor of this nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0293par0244	Who burned the tents?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0245	The conflict has turned to Parliament thanks to you, Hajji. There's a shootout at the Capitol, forget the street.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0246	I don't understand the fact that friends in Parliament are interested in the street. Some CHP friends showed a lot of interest, some did not.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0247	No, everyone's interested, everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0248	At the beginning of a crowd on the street, demonstrations reminded me of the student activities of the early 1980s. There may be some nostalgic feelings going on, but I want to remind those friends that they're not students on the street anymore, they're in Parliament, they're here. They need to work here, they need to speak within the rules of Parliament, they need to talk about their issues. If we fight in the street, make noise, we'll call everyone out on the street. This is destructive to Turkey, my dear friends.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0249	What do you say to the lawmakers who got their nose broken in a kickpin in the House, Mr. Hajji? Come on, believe what you're saying first!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0250	Now, you've been telling us from a long time: you're a fascist, you're building an authoritarian structure, you've surrounded the law. I've been listening to this law for years. What a siege, the Mussar of Kanije, we are still encircling the law! There's no such thing, dear friends. Now, the legal debate... look, there have been cases of Ergenekon and Sledgehammer in the past, there have been courts.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0252	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0253	I'm looking at the CHP Group, the lawyer at Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer, and suddenly the prosecutor after December 17th. In Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, prosecutors are doing false jobs, investigating with false documents...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0254	That's right!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0255	...after December 17th -- God, God, whatever happens to prosecutors -- they do the right thing, they seek the rights of the law with dignity and grace!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0292par0256	But there are cash boxes in the middle, money boxes in the middle, shoe boxes in the middle, don't mix it up!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0257	In Ergenekon and Sledgehammer, the law is never neutral and independent, but whatever divine hand touches it...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0294par0258	Tell the attorney general of the case I'm the prosecutor of the case. Why are you telling us this?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0259	...after December 17th, the law suddenly becomes neutral and independent!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0294par0260	Yeah, tell the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0261	How do you really feel about the legal structure in Turkey?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0295par0262	Ergenekon was unlawful, unfair, dear Hodja. When we told him at the Human Rights Commission, you were most opposed to him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0263	Is the law neutral and independent? Prosecutors do their duty? What's your position? Are you a lawyer or a prosecutor? I don't know if this judgment is neutral or independent, but, frankly, I don't understand it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0296par0264	He's been doing it right for three years, and now he's doing it wrong after three years? Make up your minds!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0297par0265	I'm the prosecutor of the Ergenekon case. Who said that? Tell him, why are you telling us?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0266	But I'll tell you this: as long as politics isn't strict, as long as politics doesn't work democratically, the law is not neutral and independent on its own. Open up -- there's lawyers among you, there's lawyers -- look at the history of law. Law is a function of power relationships, my friends. If power relations become democratic, then the law becomes neutral and independent. Otherwise, it becomes an area where a number of fit forces hulk into warding structures and produce political engineering, which is not a good record of Turkey's past.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0298par0267	Why did you take advantage of those custody structures in your time? You took advantage of the custody structures.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0268	Look, the CHP friends who went abroad are doing some kind of cognitive evaluation there. For example, a friend said, I heard with my ears that Turkey is not the Grand National Assembly, but Turkey's great prison. I mean, this is prison. Yeah, that's what they said. There was an authoritarian structure in Turkey, fascism in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0299par0269	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0300par0270	Right. Isn't Mehmet Bey here?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0271	Now, look, if Turkey is what this friend says it is, then that friend is a hero. That's what he said back there. What great dangers await him when he comes to Turkey, what that fascist government, that authoritarian person will do to him! Do you see a hero? No. He says, he comes in peace because he doesn't exist. Your language and action must be compatible.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0300par0272	Come on, teacher!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0289par0273	...a heroic image outside, you're coming to Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no risk. This is not appropriate, this language is not the right language.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0300par0276	Why don't you describe the Turkish painting so we can talk together? Let's see the Turkish painting together!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0301par0277	That's why he's calling from Morocco, the Prime Minister, from Morocco!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0302par0278	I'm sure you don't believe what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0303par0279	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0304par0281	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0305par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0304par0283	Mr. Cherry, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0305par0284	Mr. Speaker accuses myself of provocative nationalism. That's an important accusation. I have to clarify, I refuse.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0306par0285	Aytun Bey, it's not about your person, so don't take it personally.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0307par0286	It's a constitutional offense.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0308par0287	Here you go, Mr. Cherry, give me some clarity. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0291	Now, my teacher tried to teach us a lesson here in his habit of teaching, but he didn't study well.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0310par0292	Oh, I wish you could!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0293	Now, dear friends, for the past five or ten years, a major political operation has been conducted in Turkey over collective consciousness. If someone in a country says he's a nationalist, if he says he's an Ataturk nationalist, he's a reactionary and a statusist, and he's said to be provocative nationalist. However, if someone in this country goes out and does racist politics every day, representatives of this racist politics are declared democrats. First of all, we're not gonna let this nationalization complex get us into the Ataturk nationalism complex, we're not gonna let that happen. We are not provocative nationalists. We become the nationalist who needs to be. Now, you said that I am the prosecutor of Ergenekon. Moreover, we're not the same Prime Minister, who acted according to the conjunctural, who gave the prosecutor a power car at one time, and then drove the prosecutor at the other time, so we're not the ones who have a change of attitude. As to the fact that Cyprus has been a problem for 60 years: In this world, national trials may sometimes last a thousand years. Look, Israel has not given up his case for five hundred years, so I congratulate them.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0311par0296	Oh! Bravo! Bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0297	Turkey, for sixty years... what is sixty years in the lives of one nation, of the state? What do we do if it doesn't last 60 years? Are we going to apologize and return what we earned at the table with the blood of the martyrs? You...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0312par0298	Are you congratulating Israel for killing children?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0299	Sir, you are now saying... look, they have applied the Gaza clause to Israel.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0312par0300	Are you congratulating Israel for killing children?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0313par0301	He says he's taking care of his case, Mr. Secretary, don't twist it!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0302	Now, I'm here as a witness: the Justice and Development Party will lift the Gaza clause after the election. You've already made a deal with Israel! You can even tell who's going to carry the oil with the ships.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0314par0304	What part of Israel do you congratulate?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0309par0305	We're all going through this together. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0308	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0316par0309	Mr. President, orator, the travel events...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0317par0310	They received $23 million in compensation from Israel for the children.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0311	I can't tell, Congressman...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0316par0312	Mr. President, Mr. Orator said that during the travel events, CHP lawmakers were mobilizing the public into the street. I'd like to take a stand on that. I'd like to correct the misunderstanding.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0313	Were you on the street then?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0318par0314	Yeah, yeah, it was on the street.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0319par0315	For him street culture is a decent culture.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0316	Wait a second, you're...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0317	Yeah, I've always been on the street.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0318	Oh, yeah? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0320	I've got fezlemem, too. There's also my fezlem, if you like it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0315par0321	Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0323	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, let's get this whole trip thing cleared up. Look, you guys don't understand any of this. At that time, young people went out for freedom, for justice, for equality, for democracy. They were young men whose hearts were much stronger than those of you who sat here like ornaments.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0321par0324	Oh, come on! Don't!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0322par0325	You're the ornamental plant! Please be polite!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0326	They're young men who risked their lives.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0322par0327	We invite you to be kind. Congressman, be gentle!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0328	The travel events also showed that politics is not a technician's job, but a work of the heart, my friends. I was with those young people at the time. I don't talk to people who are blocked in their cognitive pathways, I don't talk to you at all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0323par0329	How could you not take it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0330	I was with those young people at the time; in hospitals, in the police, I always tried to protect those young people. We were there to protect those young people under violence, who were oppressed by your government's instructions that you provoked. You guys made us do it. But you know, there wasn't really any leadership in those Gezi events, there was no hierarchy in those travel events, there was no distinction between Turk, Kurd, Alevi, Sunni, head open, head covered; everyone fought for the same thing hand and hand in hand.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0324par0331	You did it!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0332	Everyone fought for democracy, equality and freedom. Now, if you were in a position to understand that, then you'd be on the street with us, defending those young people's rights.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0325par0333	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0334	But if you had the courage to understand it, the intelligence to understand it...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0326par0335	We've got a crate, we've got a crate!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0336	We wouldn't be talking about this!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0327par0337	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0320par0338	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0328par0340	Put on your manners!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0329par0341	Mind your own mind! You mind your own mind and your own decency!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0330par0342	He's insulting me!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0331par0343	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0332par0344	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0333par0345	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0331par0346	However, one of you...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0332par0347	He's for himself, and I'm for the group...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0331par0348	No, what are you talking about, Mr. Hodja?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0334par0349	Sir, he generalized it as a süssüssü plant. That's a very rude and insulting thing to say. That's why I demand answers.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0335par0350	You don't have any brains. He said.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0331par0351	Here, you have my word for two minutes. Please don't let us make a new taunt.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0336par0355	Dear friends, no one here is an ornamental plant. Why is there politics? People run politics through parties, come to Parliament. I thought they'd work out a lot of different kinds of arguments in a country in the country in a refined way. As far as the street is concerned, as long as it's within acceptable limits, I've also said that the actions on the street are part of democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0337par0357	Thank God!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0336par0358	That the trip didn't fit, that there were violent movements, that it had become a form of vandalism, that it was destructive.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0338par0359	It was the cops who did vandalism. In front of me, the police broke the ATM devices; they've got photos, if you want me to show them.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0339par0360	It's his government!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0336par0361	...and that some of them might have a political conclusion on the trip? I said, "Can we do it over the Trip? Can we do it over the Ark?" He began to dream.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0340par0362	Come on, Hodja! You know it's not like that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0336par0363	This is unacceptable. Ma'am, of course, he came here, a rhetoric based on so many adjectives. That's what trouble is all about. You come in here, you give me the kind of story you'll use on Facebook, and you show it to your friends, and look how good I've spoken, but it doesn't cover the reality. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Street, the street of a politician, the violence on the street...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0341par0365	You don't understand these things!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0336par0366	...I don't see peace with his own seating ethic here. If you're in Parliament -- where the parlamento is spoken, it's not where there's a scuffle -- and if you're here, you don't see the street as an area where politics has been raised against Parliament, power relations will be seen. A piece of political science can distinguish that. Heart, heart, head, understanding, ornamental plant; I reject this language, not a proper language, nor the language of Parliament. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0369	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0343par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0371	Please, Congressman... how long are we going to keep this up?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0343par0372	Let me explain something to you about language.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0373	Of course, power, of course, will criticize the opposition.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0343par0374	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0375	Congressman, please sit down.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0343par0376	If you'll excuse me, I'll gather what he said about language, because I believe that language should be more accurate.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0344par0377	Mr. President, about the street... look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0378	I'll put the group proposal to a vote, sir. Please, Congressman, have a seat. There's been any bullying...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0345par0381	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0382	Mr. Bostanci has responded, Mr. Line, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0346par0383	Mr. President, word's been made on the street.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0347par0384	This is a group of vice presidents, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0342par0385	Just a second... let's ask Mr. Line.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0348par0386	Then I'm going to need your word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0349par0387	Mr. President, I'd like to ask that the substitute lady take back the word "sustain plant" that she said.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0350par0388	Or you'll punish me!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0349par0389	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0350par0390	Say that again.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0351par0391	Mr. Row, Mr. Bostanci has responded.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0349par0392	If you'll excuse me. We're the parliamentarians who came here with the people's votes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0352par0394	That's what they say, Mrs. Belma.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0349par0395	If you'll excuse me. We're the parliamentarians who come here with the votes of the people, we're not members of any NGO, we know where to do what to do. Our primary duty is to conduct control and legislative activity here. Me and all my friends are doing this job right. I strongly condemn him for the word he used.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0353par0398	Mr. Bostanci has already condemned it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0354par0400	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0353par0401	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0354par0402	Mr. President, Mr. Bostanci spoke with a condescending attitude about the street. We've been fighting a democracy for thirty years and we've come from the streets. Street culture is a decent culture. I wanted this to go on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0353par0404	Thank you. The Republican People's Party proposal for the group...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0355par0408	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0353par0409	I'll put the group proposal to a vote, but there's a roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Earth, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Aygündüz, Mr. Kalavan, Mr. Gök, Mr. Ekin, Mr. Köse, Mr. Öz, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Akova, Mr. Güler... I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0413	Mr. President, every time a vote is held, please don't let our two AKP members stand in front of the bench. Look, there's no one here. His hand is in his pocket, gathering votes in front of the podium.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0353par0414	What's the matter, Mr. Özdemir?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0415	But, you can't do that!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0357par0416	We're not talking about that, we're talking about something else.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0417	Let it go, brother, you two are in the same place every time!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0358par0418	Mr. Özdemir, what do you mean, he's interfering with an electronic vote here?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0357par0419	We're talking about something else. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0420	Then let's go there.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0358par0421	No, what's the problem, it's not clear.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0422	The ballots will be here soon, and I know what they're doing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0358par0423	I get it, Mr. Özdemir. I don't know what you mean.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0424	Now, come on, warn our other friend, pick him up. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0358par0425	It's interesting, I mean, it's really interesting.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0356par0426	But, look, it's not happening, it's not right. Every vote, every roll call, they're the same friends!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0359par0427	President, they don't trust you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0360par0428	Secret vote, open book. You'll get used to it. It was the opposite in your era.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit03spe0361par0430	Mr. Friday's Heartfelt? No. Mr. Hussein Steel? Here. Mr. Bashir Atalay? Here. Mr. Burhan Lamb? Here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0361par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 3rd place, the Deputy Chair of the Movement for Humanity, Ilyas Candy and Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and 18 MP Haydar Akar's proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Millitarian Movement Party Group Chairman Mehmet Şandir's Co-Chair Mehmet Şandir; 657 State Officers' Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law; Neveli MP Haydar Akar's proposal for amendments to certain Laws; 7269-based Umumi Haydar Haydar Akar's Order for Humanitarian Affairs; We will submit an additional amendment to the Act on Aids to Humanitarian Actions and Agreement, an additional Article on Humanitarian Affairs, and Agreement of the Council of the Council of Ministers; We shall underlines and Agreement of the Council of the Commission on Foreign Affairs; We shall make an Encounterment of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministerss of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministerss and the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers. of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers. of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan and his friends, who were the third and final motion on Article 37 in the second part of the draft law proposed under Article 91 in the Union yesterday. Now, to remind you of the motion that the Commission and the government disagree, I'm going to read it again and submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The underlying law is 37. The article in the article in 19 shall be replaced in the form of................................................................................................ Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0362par0024	What clause is this, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0361par0025	Article 37 has been accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0362par0026	Okay. (x) 546 S. The Numbered Basmaz (11/02/2014) was added to its 59th Union Charter.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0361par0028	There are four motions on Article 38, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the exchange of the class of the category "Th" and "Programist" titles on the list number (1) in addition to the 1st article added to Article 5902 with the frame of Article 38 in the current 546 rows of the Law Proposal. Mustafa Elitaş Mihrimah Belma Kın Nurdan Şanlı Ali Aydınlıoğlu İsmail Kashdemir Durdu Mehmet Kastal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 4 of Article 38 of the current law proposal 546 rows. According to the joke, we provide and propose that the declaration be changed to the name referred to. Pervin Bulgi Bengi Star Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Altan Tan to Property Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 38 of the proposed law. Article 5. We propose that the phrase "one in a thousand" in his joke be changed to "five in a thousand." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following staff be included after the "psychologist" staff, which is listed on the list (1), in addition to Article 38 in the framework and Article 5902 in the Law. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu SH Sociologist 8 100 100 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0363par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0361par0058	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0364par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0361par0060	Mustafa Kalaycı asking for a word on the motion is the MP of the Constabulary.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0365par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As we speak, a total of 6,511 staff members are being paid for by the newly formed rural organisation of the Afet and Emergency Management Administration, the municipal disaster and emergency directorates of the province's special administrations and civil defence, search and rescue units are being cancelled. Again, at this proposal, 11 staff members are required to the Ministry of Interior, including 1,967 staffs, 2 branch assistants to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and 26 staff members to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, including 10 departments. The AKP mentality ignores our young men who have been waiting for the cross for years while their goal is to employ staffs for their own pleasure. Instituting teachers, appointees, engineers, veterinarians, technicians, staff members, contractor workers, job and occupation advisors, deputy imam and deputy advisors, substitute nurses, master teachers, university graduates, temps and seasonal workers are waiting for a staff, while the AKP government is waiting for its ministry council. While there are 350,000 teachers waiting to be appointed in our country, another university of the foundation is allowed to open education. This points to unplanned, unscheduled, arbitrary grief. However, in 2002, Gaziantep, Izmir, Samsun, took teachers with a test. Then why are you teaching these students, isn't that a shame? I'm not getting a teacher, and I don't want my children to read for nothing. But when we're in power, I hope there won't be a teacher's candidate on the loose. It's the Prime Minister who said. Eleven years later, the teacher's deficit reached 127,000 teachers and the number of non-assigned teachers reached 350,000, while the teacher's salaries were unfair to the officer. They're already working fifteen hours, and they're on vacation for two months. What good is it to this country from a mindset that accuses teachers of underworking and underprivileged wages, when there are over 300,000 teachers waiting to be appointed? For years, our candidates for teachers, who have waited for the appointment, who need their father's allowance, are depressed, suicidal. Dear MPs, it is the Prime Minister and AKP government who have made constant promises to our police and failed to keep their promises. The Turkish police's main demand is to boost additional indicators and compensations. Our officers, all of whom are well-educated, want the 3600 additional indicators rightfully. Every interior minister of the AKP government has promised and given good news, but it's all in vain. On July 15, 2007, on a television show, Prime Minister said the first thing to be put on the table after the election was police rights. Again, Mr. Prime Minister, who attended last year's event at Ankara Security Directorate's Riot Force Directorate in Ramadan, said the police's retirement rights would be enforced, but so far no regulation has been made. I'm asking the AKP government: Do you know that tens of thousands of retired police officers are in a state of execution; we have retired police officers who are depressed, suicidal because of economic problems, income shortages, and debt that can't be paid? No one has the right to put our police in this position. What are you still waiting for? Why don't you keep your promise? Turkish police will not give their rights to those who have broken their promises and those who have deceived them over the years, and in the March 30th elections, AKP will handcuff and lock them in the chest. I put an end to my words, and pay my respects, saying that it is a sign of hypocrisy according to our great religion, that you do not keep your word, and that lying is a sign of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0366par0071	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 38 of the proposed law. Article 5. In his joke, we propose that one of them should be changed to five. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0367par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0366par0079	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0368par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0366par0081	It's Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0369par0083	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised Article 38 of the proposal, and I salute you all. We're discussing a change in the history of the law as a black mark. The election calendar and the calendar of corruption are intertwined, illegal acts and illegal decisions made by the state administration have been intertwined, and parliament's working order and principles have been completely broken. The legislature has been forced to abandon the lawmaking business and to patch up the government's mistakes. The situation of many local institutions and personnel forgotten while writing the Metropolitan Law has again been forced to make an election today, with many errors and gaps. Members of parliament, this bill, which reached 53 articles with the latest additions, was actually made up of 19 articles when it came to us. Added pirate bids, the Parliament has often been transformed into a rookie tailor, who has turned from being a legislature to patching the dress that he has made randomly, with motions that the AKP MPs do not know about, without knowing its contents. It became so that when we asked for the purpose of the proposal of the law, the detailed grounds were not available in writing. As the election approaches, the bag has begun to replace the government bill with some MPs offering bags. The parliament's working order is being completely alarmed, and the government is making a commercial calculation of buying time in order to destroy the dignity of the House. A new addition is now being made to this bag, which has climbed from 19 to 53 articles. New patch is coming into the Internet censorship law. We're going through a very strange phase here, Mr. Deputys. Mr. President does not return this law to parliament, with a number of problematic substances in the censorship code, and he cannot bear the political cost of the work. The President of Twitter yesterday, as Zaytung joked, approves the articles he finds wrong, then instructs the Parliament to change these articles now and approve them again. Well, now that I have a suggestion to our Assembly: since the state administration is being dragged so badly, the demands of Parliament and the people are being ignored so much, even the approval of censorship of the Internet is being released from Twitter, so let's close the Parliament's General Assembly, let's write the laws in Facebook, and let the President see from Facebook, confirm them from Twitter. That's how you earn time and cover up corruption faster. Members of parliament, while awaiting the response of our president's 11 questions to the Prime Minister yesterday, unfortunately there is a very clear fact: the government and the President have turned the government and the president's government, which has ignored our people's right criticism, all of our proposals for solutions, toy for election accounts. Despite its shortcomings, the law has been passed in the history of Chankaya. Congressmans, Mr. AKP MPs, I'll explain in detail when I've been renegotiated in Article 39, but I'll tell you this: We've been telling you over and over again that the government, which has taken the power to prepare for amnesty so much, has not been able to use local resources enough, but you don't show the necessary priority. When we ask what will happen to civil defense experts' social balance compensation, food aid, equity rights, jobs after they're 50 years old, we face the loopholes of the law again. Get out, explain, please. What about the future of these personnel who have been transferred to the Prime Minister's AFAD staff when problems arise in the state's private administration staff? ▪ Who will be placed under the name of the oral test, and how will they be placed? It looks like you're going to need a law, a proposal, a bill, again, in many loopholes that you're going to take the AFAD administration from the county's private administration and connect it to the center. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0370par0093	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Article 4 of Article 38 of the current law proposal 546 rows. According to the joke, we provide and propose that the declaration be changed to the name referred to. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0371par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0370par0101	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0372par0102	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0370par0103	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0373par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on the 38th Amendment. I salute your committee. Of course, we're constantly expressing our views and opposition about this law, as well as the articles of this law, and it's not considered very much. On the basis of this motion, I would like to rephrase a few issues concerning the ministry in my constituency, especially in the local area. Dear MPs, look, the city of Bingol has been a victim of earthquakes for 40 years and is now a first-degree earthquake in Turkey. Forty years ago, in 1971, when the earthquake took place in Bingley, over 800 of our citizens lost their lives, almost a whole city was destroyed. The 40-50 square metres of temporary prefabricated dwellings at that time have been waiting for 40 years to return to permanent residence. We've asked questions over and over again, and we've had one-on-one conversations with the Ministry. The Minister of Environment and Urbanism at the Assembly General Assembly -- the former Minister -- has come forward and promised that this 40-year sacrifice is a disgrace to the state. We promise to end this sacrifice of Bingol. He said. Despite that, there hasn't been a single study of the removal of this victim until today. At that time, in these temporary prefabricated homes, because the winter conditions in Bingol have been harsh, a symbolic transport aid was made in order to resolve the heating problem. And most people did this isolation in these 40-50 square meters -- I won't say home -- to solve this warming problem in the henhouses, by taking more bricks out of their own pocket than in the government. Now, after that, the government got all tricky here, and we gave you cash to help you with the brick, and we helped you with the cash. Thus, these temporary dwellings have been converted to permanent dwellings. Is there such an understanding, such a dishonest approach? The former Minister of Environment and Urbanism accepted this dishonest approach and said that 71 dwellings related to Bingol will work to turn these barracks into permanent dwellings. We've filed the names of these victims, the only rightful owners, to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and we've forwarded them to the disaster-related units, but so far there's not been a single study. Now, the minister's changed, and I'm sure this Minister of Environment and Urbanism doesn't know anything about this problem. In the state, continuity is fundamental. It's called "permanence." But when a minister changes, all the work that you've taken to a certain stage before is almost blown up. We can't possibly accept such an understanding. Look, there are also very serious victims of the 2003 earthquake. At the time, 60 percent of the city of Bingol was affected by the earthquake, but it was not declared a disaster zone. Since the disaster zone was not declared, an understanding of commercial profits was revealed from TOKI-made dwellings. Now, the entire city is almost in debt to banks, prices have been raised far beyond its cost, people can't pay the installments of these dwellings, the bank interest is growing like an avalanche, and that's how people are desperate. We also offered a law. At the very least, we've offered this Congress the law to ensure that these bank interest rates are not taken from the victims, the victims, and that there is a legal arrangement for this, but so far, unfortunately, there is no work done by this government again. Look, there's an urban transformation project in the Inönu neighborhood about this 2003 earthquake being launched by TOKI again. There is no example, there is no example in any province; people were thrown out, as if they had not been dealt with. When these houses were destroyed, these people were not paid rent, they weren't helped with the wreckage, they weren't helped with the wrecking, the housing problem was not solved, people were threatened -- if you don't sign, you'll lose your rights -- they were signed by these people. And right now, people are struggling with those victims. A city is at risk of a first degree earthquake, and has not suffered an earthquake for 40 years. And to you belong the last twelve years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish the Minister of Environment and Urbanism were here, but we would like to ask the bureaucrats here to take notes and to give us written or verbal answers as Congressman of Bingol as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0374par0114	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the exchange of the class of the category "Th" and "Programist" titles on the list number (1) in addition to the 1st article added to Article 5902 with the frame of Article 38 in the current 546 rows of the Law Proposal. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0375par0121	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0374par0122	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0376par0123	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0377par0124	Motive.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0374par0125	I'm reading the reason: It is dated 6,2,2014 and the State Department of Family and Social Policy 6158, with a Code of Law on the Offices of the Organization and the Offices of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws 112 of the Law. In the final joke of the clause, the class of the "Programist" and "Solver" titles included in the other relevant legislation and sections of the rule of rule number 190 (I) has been changed to the class of the "technical Services Class." It is intended to adapt to the change in the Law referred to by the motion. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 39, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-nine of the proposed law. It's temporary in Article 7. Article 4. We would like to request that the statement in his joke be changed to "employee and employee status" in the "serious defence search and rescue union directorates." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Sedef Küçük Sakine Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose that law proposal 546 be replaced in this manner by Article 39 and Article 7 added to Article 5902 in the framework and the second amendment to Article 5902 in the following way, with a payment of Article 32 of Law 25/6/2001 in its third joke, under Article 4688 in accordance with Article 32 of the Law. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Alim Ik (2) At the time of the execution of this clause, the staff of staff members of the staff of civil defence and rescue union bodies and the staff of civil defence directorates in a separate section of the relevant municipal private administrations and the staff members of the staff of the various professions, the staff of engineers, the staff of the veterinary staff, the staff of the staff of vets, the staff of the same staff, and the staff of other staff, are still assigned to the staff of the presidential provincial community, where they are based on the ranks of the presidential community. In governorships and subsidiaries, employees of the Service to the Villages are also appointed to the appropriate staff, no need to operate at all. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of the current 546 Orders Numbered Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0378par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0374par0152	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0379par0153	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0374par0154	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0380par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to talk to you about the motion we made on Article 39. Again, it's going to be a continuation of my speech just now. In particular, in my constituency, I will continue to convey the victimies of policies in the period of your government. Two days ago, we were in Bingol. We have a neighborhood called Castletown. With the approval of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in the middle of that neighborhood, with the approval of the province's governorate, a concrete plant under the jurisdiction of the state's private administration was given to a private company. In the middle of the neighborhood, we were faced with a total disaster, with dirty water running all over the neighborhood, with dust clouds pouring out, healthy particles, and noise being heard almost deafening the human ear all over again. So I went to see that concrete plant there in the neighborhood, and it really gave us goose bumps. I mean, you're ignoring human health, disregarding environmental health, leaving no ecological balance, because you're going to make money for a few contractors, a few businessmen. Is that an understanding? Local residents have made repeated promises of governorship over the past three years. In their files, they have the signatures of the promises made by the deputy governors. They said in 2012, we're not going to give this concrete plant back to these companies, we're going to remove it from here. But, for some reason, someone at the top probably said, "Those businessmen, those contractors, they didn't make enough money, so it's not important for people to breathe there, it's not important for them to breathe, it's not important for them to breathe, it's also important for them to keep this concrete plant in the middle of the neighborhood as a freak." Look, I treated dozens of asthma patients, bronchitis patients, cancer patients who lived in the same neighborhood, the same neighborhood, when I was an expert in breast disease. Right now, that concrete plant is leading all of these patients to their deaths. When we get there, people ask us to take a breath of fresh air. I lie in the hospital for days, I'm a victim, I'm getting a little better in the hospital, but when I come to this neighborhood, I can't breathe because of the concrete plant in the middle of that neighborhood, saving your government. Now, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism knows about it, and they've been told about it. The State Department of Environment and Urbanism knows about it, but so far, he hasn't moved a muscle. He's been in the neighborhood for two years, and he's been fighting the law. The freak, whose right to life has been denied, his environmental health, his human health, even though there's been a legal struggle, he's still there, even though his files have been passed to the authorities over and over. There must be an explanation for this for the people of Bingol. The only clean breath, a fresh drop of breath that Kalenü neighborhood can take is worth more to us than the dirty millions of dollars of your businessmen and contractors. So you need to get this freak out of there as soon as possible. Talks with Bingol Governory have now been promised that the concrete plant will be removed. But we do know that if someone were to face some difficulties with making money from there, you'd give them instructions from above, just like you did before, even in the face of human health, to keep that concrete plant going. You need to put aside these insights, policies that are a reflection of that understanding. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is not just a ministry where the environment is passed on paper; it is a ministry that must answer to the public, which is responsible for its obligations and responsibilities. Regarding the concrete plant in Kaleön neighborhood, I invite both the AKP Group and the Ministry officials and the Minister to be sensitive and to do what is necessary, to protect the right to live in Kalenü neighborhood. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0381par0162	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose that law proposal 546 be replaced in this manner by Article 39 and Article 7 added to Article 5902 in the framework and the second amendment to Article 5902 in the following way, with a payment of Article 32 of Law 25/6/2001 in its third joke, under Article 4688 in accordance with Article 32 of the Law. Mustafa Kalaycı (Konya) and his friends (2) At the time of the execution of this clause, the staff of staff members of the staff of civil defence and rescue union bodies and the staff of civil defence directorates in a separate section of the relevant municipal private administrations and the staff members of the staff of the various professions, the staff of engineers, the staff of the veterinary staff, the staff of the staff of vets, the staff of the same staff, and the staff of other staff, are still assigned to the staff of the presidential provincial community, where they are based on the ranks of the presidential community. In governorships and sub-primes, employees of the Service to villages are also appointed to the appropriate staff, no need to operate at all. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0382par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0381par0171	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0383par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0381par0173	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0384par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised a motion on Article 39 of Law Proposal 546 that is being discussed. I hereby salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this motion we've made is a very important one. Because we don't think it's appropriate for civil defense, search and rescue union directors to be dismissed without any grounds, with the state disaster and emergency departments, whose number is 92. We want these institutions to continue to carry out the same task, because when this law came out in 2009, we made all these warnings as the National Party of Action. He came out again during your administration, and now, five years later, he's going to create a separate disturbance with a new arrangement. In addition, disregarding the social balance compensation of around 700 lira in accordance with Article 32 of Law 4688 will lead to a significant reduction in their salaries. This arrangement is incompatible with rights and law. So, we're predicting the removal of this provision, which will lead to the victims of personnel, with our motion. Another suggestion is that employees of the governorates and sub-primes of service to the villages should be appointed directly to the appropriate positions of their own. With this arrangement, we demand that about 10,000 of our staff working for 1,056 villages across Turkey get the right they expect, which is about 70 per cent of those employees have graduated from university. Now, you're going to hire a lot of people, we're going to hire 100,000 contractors, so we're going to have to protect these people's rights, their law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I hope you will find this motion in place. Mr. Secretary, of course there is no emergency, but I have to address a few of the serious issues that are waiting for an emergency, especially because they're related to you. I've been asked to give you the staff requests of the paralegal midwife and nurses who work at the Ministry of Health and the members of the family outside the public health staff, and I'm telling you exactly. If you have any suggestions for these things, let's add that to this bag of legislation. So let's make it possible for these surrogates and nurses and the public health workers to smile. Another urgent issue: the Bedelli Military Law, which was issued in 2011, unfortunately, is not the solution, because it is a problem, and today it is registered at 750,000 Bakaya for 2 million. In their own words, they're wanted with GBT, like terrorists, and they can't even go to the doctor or the school. They want an immediate solution to this. In this bag of legislation, we say, "Come on, let's figure this out." Dear lawmakers, there is another pressing issue: the state hospital, which has entered the Health Ministry's 2010-2013 Investment Programme for Kütahya, which is the second step, unfortunately the hospital is out of the program because 2013 is behind us. If we're going to build this state hospital for Kütahya, I'd say we'd like to immediately bring this hospital, which is the right of Kütahya, to Kütahya. To that end, we demand that the Minister fulfill the previous Minister's promise. I would also like to request the fulfillment of the commitments made to the state hospital in Simav, which led to severe casualties due to the 2011 earthquake. Again, on behalf of my countrymen, I would like to convey to Mr. Minister that 520-beds of physical therapy and rehabilitation hospital, which has been built at Dumlupınar University in Kütahya, have been opened to this day. I await your support of our motion, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0385par0188	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0384par0190	Accepted, Mr. Secretary, the ones who refused were less.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0385par0191	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-nine of the proposed law. It's temporary in Article 7. Article 4. We would like to change the phrase "employees in the civil defence search and rescue union directorates" to "worker and officer status." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0386par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0385par0197	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0387par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0385par0199	It's Sakine Öz, the Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0388par0201	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 39th amendment of the bill we discussed. I salute you all again. This bag of proposal-looking bill creates new gaps in bringing up forgotten, wrong or incomplete laws. The disaster arrangement changes the structure of the city's disaster departments, but does not address our country's basic preparations for disaster. In short, we cannot go to a comprehensive arrangement called the new integrated disaster management with this disaster law. We can't answer so few questions in the 2014 budget for disaster measures. This proposal is distracted by the confusion of authority created by the Metropolitan Law, although disaster management is not focused on the budget, the risk element, the temporary assignment, local intervention channels, search and rescue units. Members of parliament, in this bag of legislation, additional permit granted to officers and soldiers' sick or disabled children should also be granted to workers. We suggested it, but you ignored it. You didn't care, it was suggested that the elderly and the disabled should increase their pensions. As it turns out, you haven't forgotten to submit an additional motion to the Ministry to open an advisory staff. We said there was no point in giving an additional 3,000 staffs before we could improve the rights of current specialists, and you didn't listen. Now, you're silent again as the veterans' legitimate demands, post-resignation job hunts continue to grow like an avalanche. Congressmans, there is a very clear truth now. The AKP period has been a loss to local governments for years and a boost in centralisation. Investment monitoring and co-ordination boards in the capital cities after the closure of their private administrations take over the authority and property of local governments one by one, and the governors turn the party's orders without the Prime Minister's political direction. The provisions for the Disaster Act show that the co-operation of local government-central management will remain in the air. This proposal states that the government will be extremely stingy in sharing its authority in disaster planning with local governments, vocational rooms and experts. It is clear that connecting the AFAD county managers to the centre, which is dependent on the private administration, is a clear violation of the European Convention on Local Autonomity. It is evidence of the legal problems of centralisation in the organised industrial areas of the capital, where the state's private administrations are suddenly under the governorate's command of their property. The last stop of the movement of centralisation, not localization, is the community of local authorities. The president of the Union will no longer be elected from the governors, but the Undersecretary of Internal Affairs will be appointed to head the unit. Connecting the governors to their party, appointing the Undersecretary of Internal Affairs as head of the community of local governments, is proof that you don't care about the Prime Minister's power sharing and democracy. During the AKP, Parliament, which has patched the law over the patch, has kept our proposals on the shelves for months. You fed and delivered the will to rule the state to the money-bearing hands, to the extortionists you raised. You've exhausted the debate and decision-making of the House itself, you've captured the House of Bureaucracy. In a day or two, you have banned the House from speaking for itself because of the laws that have been so blind and wrong. You raised your hand to the laws you were unaware of, surrendered unconditionally to bureaucratic custody. With this proposal, the supporters' tender bribe, the media's censorship castle, the government's money wheel, the state's rantball, the party's company vault, the Parliament's patronage nest, has reached a sad extent. In these days, when the bag bill turns into a bag of offers, I again warn the AKP ranks: speed is not speed, your path is not road, and your haste is not good. I salute you all with the utmost respect for the position you've taken to deserve your votes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit04spe0389par0211	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0389par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 546. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on the 40th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law, which is currently held in 546 rows, shall be replaced in the following way by article 40 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ilk Yusuf Halaçoğlu "The 25th joke of the Interim Article 1 of the Law has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added at the end of the article. Those who cannot be completed until the time when the corporate personality of private administrations is lifted by ministries and central administrations will be transferred to investment monitoring and co-ordinating presidents based on Article 3152, Article 28/A of the Law. Parts of the resources that have not been used until the end of the day are paid to the Ministry of Interior's central accounting unit, and the overall budget (B) is marked for revenues. These income-received sums are authorized by the Ministry of the Interior to register funds for the budget's relevant arrangements and to deposit non-expenses from these funds into the next year's budget. The contract between the contractor company and its municipal private administration is transferred to the relevant investment monitoring and co-ordination presidencys. All rights stemming from the situation are the heads of investment monitoring and co-ordination in debt, debt and other relations." According to this Law, the legal personalities of municipalities with a population of 2,000 and more populations continue, according to the 2012 Dayian census of the address identified by Turkey's Statistical Institution, from municipalities envisioned to be removed by this law." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 40 of Law 546 which is currently being discussed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Mustafa Moroğlu Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayyadın Ahmet İhsan Kalkavan Celal Dinçer MADDE 40 - 12/11/2012, and the 5th and 25th jokes of the Interim Article 1 of the Law have been changed as follows by the establishment of the Metropolitan Municipality and 27 districts of 14 counties, 6360, and the amendments to some Law and Law ordinances. "5) Any transport and non-movable property of the province's private administration, which has been removed by this law, is transferred to the Metropolitan Municipality. According to the rights, the rights and debts of the province's private administrations and the commission decision, it is decided to transfer them to the ministries, the ministries' or related organisations, to the provincial authorities, the governorships, investment monitoring and co-ordination, to the capital city municipality and to the municipality of the municipality or to the municipality of the municipality. The process is implemented in the date of the general selection of first-site administrations. The transfers to the Treasury have been assigned to institutions that are being used as of the date of the Law's release. The Finance Ministry of the private property of the treasury or the government under the government's jurisdiction and subsistences, which are earmarked to the private administrations, municipalities and village corporate personalities, which have been removed by Article 1 of this Law, is assigned to the municipalities of the capital city municipalities, and to the municipal municipalities of the municipalities of the capital city, in order to carry out the public-quality duties given to them by the institution's laws, and by the commission decision; according to its interest, the ministries, the ministries, the ministries's or related institutions, investment monitoring and co-ordination," he said. Those who will not be completed until the time when private administrations' corporate personality will be removed by ministries and central administrations are transferred to investment monitoring and co-ordinatorships established under Article 28/A of the Ministry of Interior, dated 14/2/1985, and under Article 3152 of the Law on Offices and Offices of the Interior. The non-used parts of the resources related to the jobs are paid to the Ministry of Interior's central accounting unit, and the income on the table marked "B" is recorded. These income-received sums are authorized by the Ministry of the Interior to register funds for the budget's relevant arrangements and to deposit non-expenses from these funds into the next year's budget. The contract between the contractor company and its municipal private administration is transferred to the relevant investment monitoring and co-ordination presidencys. All rights stemming from the situation are the heads of investment monitoring and co-ordination in debt, debt and other relations." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0390par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0389par0027	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0391par0028	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0389par0029	Celal Dinçer has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0392par0031	Mr. President, not a large number, but a small number of valued lawmakers; I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on the 40th article of Law Proposal 546. The effects can only be seen when they occur, when their pain is revealed. You know, there's a beautiful saying, you know, it's like a tree falling out of a tree. I'm talking to you as a brother who came out of the wreck in the 1999 Sakaryan earthquake. I was a public servant at the time, 20 minutes after the earthquake, the governor, the chief of police, and I, the three of us, formed the crisis committee. The first thing we did was bring in the civilian defense plans and look at them. But there weren't a word to be carried out, those plans were just plans for inspection, designed only in the area of forbidden prosecution. There was a military branch under the government mansion. The military branch collapsed, our eight heroic sons, our soldiers, screaming for hours to save us; there was no hacksaw to cut them off and save them. Minister, the preparation for earthquakes and disasters is of course crucial. So far, there's been a lot of changes in civil defence, laws have been changed, but we haven't been able to get into an integrated disaster management. Our central and local planning for pre-accession preparations has been so inadequate, they have not been able to do enough work at the level of staffing and expertise. However, the developed countries in which we are members have taken so many distances in this regard that they have taken their investments, public organisation, and their budgets to an enormous level. Integrated disaster management is being implemented in many developed countries around the world, but we have not been able to pass on it; in our studies, we have not received the views of professional rooms, NGOs. In this regard, as I said, our preferences and our understanding of governance are very incomplete. We have not been able to come up with concepts such as localisation, closeness to the people, planned urbanization, environmental rights, habitable cities from the basic principles of local government reforms. We discussed the Metropolitan Law for thirty-five days in commissions, in Parliament. We have repeatedly expressed the shortcomings of this law. If you could gather our talks as opposition MPs today, it would be worth 10 volumes of encyclopedias in the Parliamentary transcripts. This law is incomplete, it's wrong, so let's fix it, let's discuss it wider. But we couldn't get you to listen. You see his mistakes today before the law is in effect, you're trying to fix it with patches. We told you how wrong this was, but we couldn't tell you because you've got the wrong tactic, you've got the wrong strategy. Dear friends, Act 5902 and the disaster administrations established within the province's private administrations remained in the middle when we now closed off the province's private administrations. We've said so, and we've said so many other things, but we haven't been able to get you to listen. Now, the city's general parliaments' powers on investment are being eliminated on another matter. Why? County legislatures are leaving, private administrations are leaving. And who do you think the government is handing over their powers by removing the general legislatures of the province? To the elected three-persons, the mayor, the vice governor, and the office managers, the chairman of investment surveillance and co-ordination. His name sounds huge, but he's going to be the head of coordination, but he's going to take hundreds, thousands, billions of dollars of business with a commission with only three people at his disposal. We're developing a sense of local governance, you might say. You know very well that this understanding of yours can't be solved by shutting down local governments. How are you going to run this business in 39 counties, each one the size of a province, with a disaster directorate in big places like Istanbul? No way. This law is incomplete. And this law won't solve our problems. You'll see, you'll be bringing this law up again soon with new changes. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0393par0039	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law, which is currently held in 546 rows, shall be replaced in the following way by article 40 of the framework. "The 25th joke of the Interim Article 1 of the Law has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added at the end of the article. Those who cannot be completed until the time when the corporate personality of private administrations is lifted by ministries and central administrations will be transferred to investment monitoring and co-ordinating presidents based on Article 3152, Article 28/A of the Law. Parts of the resources that have not been used until the end of the day are paid to the Ministry of Interior's central accounting unit, and the overall budget (B) is marked for revenues. These income-received sums are authorized by the Ministry of the Interior to register funds for the budget's relevant arrangements and to deposit non-expenses from these funds into the next year's budget. The contract between the contractor company and its municipal private administration is transferred to the relevant investment monitoring and co-ordination presidencys. All rights stemming from the situation are the heads of investment monitoring and co-ordination in debt, debt and other relations." According to this Law, the legal personalities of municipalities with a population of 2,000 and more populations continue, according to the 2012 Dayian census of the address identified by Turkey's Statistical Institution, from municipalities envisioned to be removed by this law." Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0394par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0393par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0395par0051	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0393par0052	Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0396par0054	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This motion envisions the registration of the rights of the local municipality, which was closed in addition to the fact that the current version of the proposed bag law proposal is more meaningful and in accordance with Turkish, and that the population of 2011 is less than 2,000, and then its population is more than 2,000, and then its population is more than 2,000, according to the 2012 official population results. Dear lawmakers, this great Parliament is bringing arrangements for unfinished business in the cities of its special administrations, which it has now lifted in this law before it has even a year's notice. We told you a lot when this law came out, don't do it, don't waste the resources of this country, we said you'd have to change it before the time was right. After him, this law, Law 6360, came into force on December 6, 2012, 24 days later, the populations of cities and cities in Turkey were updated, and at that time, you didn't hear the cries in person, even though the real population was over 2,000, you closed down these cities, you turned them into villages. Twenty-four days later, it was registered and a total of 75 districts showed that your law was invalid and published according to Turkish Statistical Agency records that its population was over 2,000 in 2012. Then you turned Army County into a big city because its population increased to over 750 thousand in 2012. In 14 cities in the army, the population of 2012 was more than 2,000, but it remained in the area of 65. He wants the right to the law that we give to the Army in 65 districts now, which is passed by the High Assembly. So we're doing it in this motion, and we're saying that the population of 2012, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs states in its official writing, if there are more than 2,000 populations in 2012 today, do not make them villages. The village is shrinking with migration in every town you make. A lot of people there are victims. In total, in 21 cities across Turkey, 65 cities are currently looking at the decision to come out of here. Of these cities, Adıyaman, Ardahan, Artvin, Bayburt, Bingöl, Çanakkale, Iğdır, Kütahya, Kütahya and Yalova, two of the provinces of Giresun, Giresun, Silverhane and Sivas, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Adıyaman, Ardahan, Artvin, Bayburt, Bayburt, Bennakkale, Iğdır, Gişkale, Kütahya and Yalova. Let us return the rights of these cities, along with this arrangement for the special administrations of the province. So you guys don't give them anything by law. These already have over 2,000 populations -- 2,200, 2,300, 2.050, 2,100, 2.020 -- over the lower limit of the law. I'm speaking to lawmakers in these provinces, ruling party MPs: 21 counties, at least consult your conscience. Don't say no. These people don't want their own town to be a village. In 1952, the town of Simav district of my own town, Kütahya Province, has been a municipality and we are now closing the sixty-two-year-old town with your mistake. Don't do this! This motion is a full return of rights. No one wants anything from you, but they don't want to make you pay for what you have. We've brought this particular matter to your attention. I expect your support in this motion. Lawmakers of 21 counties, examine your consciences, vote accordingly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0397par0063	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0398par0064	Mr. President, I want the number of decisions enough searched.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit05spe0397par0065	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0397par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Kütahya MP Alim Ik and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0399par0006	Don't leave it to the clerks, you have the right to count it. In the Civil Code, with the president and the clerks, you haven't learned the Civil Code yet.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0397par0007	You're teaching, Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0399par0008	You didn't learn! There's no point in laughing there. You have to carry a responsibility.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0397par0009	I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 546. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the 41st article, which I will read and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that Article 41 of the proposed law be removed from the bidding text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Sedef Jalal Dinçer Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Mesut Dedeoğlu Sinan Oğan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0400par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0397par0031	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0401par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0397par0033	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0402par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing a bag of law. Of course, there's everything in the bag of law, but one of the most important things is that the task of private administration is being transferred to central investment and control offices in the cities in the capital city, and the bag is being brought in together in the law, and it regulates what's happening. In fact, private administrations are one of the most important public councils in one city... Mr. President, if you shut him up, I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0403par0037	We're listening. He never listens to us, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0404par0038	Congressmans, please, you can't hear the voice of the clerk.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0402par0039	...but now when you say capital city, 30 cities were built in Turkey. One of the cities that was sampled was in the name of Alexei. Now, when we look at the province of Kopeeli, should this great city have been modeled or not? When I say, "Shouldn't it be done?" I say so many times, but I'm not going to go into those details. Now, there's a big problem in front of the Big City, and that's the water problem. As you know, we're having a dry season. We have the Nestie Dam, and the Nestie Dam is low. For years on this platform and other places, the Prime Minister has repeatedly used the Nestie Dam; he said there was a trick, a scrap of corruption, but today's December 17th is not the extent of corruption done on December 25th. We're talking about a facility that was built with its first do-and-do model, which was transferred to the Metropolitan Municipality a month ago, which is now worth $7 billion. This facility, which may have cost 890 million by that date, may be expensive, it may be thought to be, but at its destination today, we see that the water is running low, and soon the city will not be able to meet its water supply. Of course, it's important how we got here. Once the city uses the Nestie Dam and Lake Sapanca to obtain drinking water and industrial water, but we had another partnership, the Skycadera Dam. Gökçadere Dam was a dam within the Yalova borders, providing water to our Karamürsel and Lakecuk counties. Immediately, after buying the AKP Metropolitan City in 2004, this dam was given to the Yalova County Special Administration, for free of charge, by saying, "There is no need to accept the existence of the Yuvalut Dam which they have always despised." It was said, "There is no need for it." It was abandoned without charge, so we had 50 per cent of it. Now we have no water. We have no water. A few years ago, they poured streams in vain to prove that he did not have water or water, and they watered the path, and they tried to express that the Nesty Dam could not have water, and all of that was a lie. But at the point where we came in today, the water was dwindling because the city's population of 1,700,000 people was being tried to be given water from the Nest Dam. What's being done? A line was drawn for 50 million TL. Where? From Sapanca Lake to Nesty Dam. This has been activated several times. I can't remember this line from seven or eight years ago or anything like that, but it was done six years ago according to Article 21/b. It was wrong, it wasn't right, it was irregular. Do you know who it was given to, my friends? It was given to the GAP Construction Company of the Çiq Group, given to 21/b without contract. They use it from time to time, but another danger has arisen. Now Lake Sapanca is running out of water. Now the smell of methane is felt. It was assumed that there were some legends under Lake Sapanca, a very historical, mythic lake, that there were buildings, that we were always told about when we were children, that we began to see them there now. Not only that, we see a large number of bottling facilities built just above the rivers that feed Lake Sapanca. I mean, all the resources are dried up. Plus, the industry's drawing water. So, 20 percent of the water used in Alexei is currently attracting the industry in Alexandria. Does industry have to use this drinking water, refined, world-class drinking water? Here we are, speaking to our friends, with neither government nor ruling party offering solutions. I'm running out of time, but I'd like to give you a few examples. He uses 13 million cubic metres of water a day...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0405par0045	Tell me the truth, don't say the wrong thing!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0402par0046	I'm correcting the number so I don't say it wrong. Only 7.4 million cubic metres of water per year, and the second unit will kick in next year, needing 15 million cubic metres of water. It's a great danger to her. It's very urgent that marine water should be used in the industry, which costs a cubic meter, but the cost of water that the industry uses today is $2.2 cubic meters. I suggest that... although they don't think much of these things, they have more of a sense of government that's concerned about things that are random and income-producing for them, but I think the problem of the water should be dealt with quickly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0406par0049	Thank you. None of it's true.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0402par0051	Did I say anything wrong? None of what they're saying is true. Then fix it. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says what I say is wrong, I demand that he come and correct it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0407par0055	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP who wants to talk about the same proposals. Mr. Oğan, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0408par0058	I give you the word of the deputy of the lobby. There's no one in there.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0409par0059	How?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0408par0060	I give you the word of the deputy of the lobby.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0409par0061	Without a vote...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0408par0062	How many people from our party, how many of you are there?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0409par0063	Mr. President, before the high-profile lawmakers got to the stand, the AKP's ranks began to say things. I'm sorry if you're coming here for a roll call, you're called the MP. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I mean, I was gonna talk to you about something else, but, Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0410par0066	Let the preacher speak, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0411par0067	Keep up the good work, they're used to talking, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0410par0068	Don't do that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0069	It's the government's job to run the House. It's not the government's job to come to the polls without checking in, no one's sorry. If you're coming in for a roll call, we'll call you MP. Honourable MPs arrived in 2011 for Prime Minister Iğdır. He's done about 35 openings. Now, it is possible that Mr. Prime Minister will come back to Iğdır, before March 30th, and will again make some imaginary openings. Until March 30th, I'm investigating, two years later, we can't find 35 different institutions and organizations that the Prime Minister opened at Iğdır. We're looking for neighborhoods, villages, and I'm asking every neighborhood I visit, every village I visit, and I'm asking if the Prime Minister opened an opening in your neighborhood in 2011, an opening in your village. We haven't found a single one of 35 imaginary openings in Igdir. I wonder what imaginary organizations you'll reopen in these local elections. Speaking of opening, we knew that you were painting and opening the police station, I don't know, now that we've been talking about the wooded city forest, where the trees are almost like this, the timbered city forest, but... we're talking about the family and social security ministry, as much as the capital market is my position, we've just talked about the family and social security ministry...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0413par0072	The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, not the Ministry of Social Security. You don't know anything right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0414par0073	It's not the Department of Social Security.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0074	We're talking capital markets, one minute. Article 41...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0413par0075	Ministry of Social Policy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0076	I know what we talked about.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0413par0077	You don't know, you don't know anything.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0078	We've just been discussed by the Ministry of Family and Social Security.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0415par0079	There's no ministry like that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0416par0080	Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0081	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0416par0082	Please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0083	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0417par0084	Read them for a while. Read it backstage and you'll learn.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0085	I've read it all, don't worry about it. I've read it all, don't worry. I mean, we've seen a lot of openings so far, but we've actually witnessed you opening a red ribbon on one side of the small motorcycle, which is the electric car that was given to a disabled citizen. No power... so far, many parties have come to power, gone, done a lot of openings. We understand your imaginary openings, come on, anyway, like in Iğdur, you've opened 35 imaginary openings, but you've come to the side of an electric car, tied a red ribbon to it, and passed into history as the power that opened it. I congratulate you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0418par0087	They're going to enter the Guinness Book of Records.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0412par0088	The Guinness Book of Records is rare. I congratulate you as the power that opens the battery car. Too bad, too bad! Don't exploit our disabled citizens. I mean, a poor guy was given a handicapped car, and what in God's name is a red ribbon in front of him? In that sense, you're history in that sense. After the imaginary openings, I congratulate you on opening the one battery car you gave our disabled citizen, and I applaud you on the council bench. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0092	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 42: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit the following joke to and propose after the statement "Laboratorys of the Laboratorys" and to the end of the statement "and to the end of the statement of the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution" and the same interim clause, under which the framework shall be replaced with Article 42. "The deputy manager is appointed to the equal or higher administrative positions, or appointed to those who are subject to Law 657, as long as they are on this staff, as long as they are on the same staff, as long as they are on the same level of compensation, as long as they are on the same side of Article 152 of the Law which is paid for the increase and compensations of the law, as well as Article 375 of Law. The provisions of this joke are also applied in Article 657 under Article 91, the second amendment of Article 657, to be compensated for the difference, and to be paid in additional payments from the return capital budget, under Article 13 of the Act 663, which is part of the interim Article 13 of the Constitution, and cannot be paid in addition under Law 209." Mustafa Elitaş Durdu Mehmet Kastal Fatih Şahin Tülay Kaynarca İdris Şahin Mustafa Aşış Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-two of the current law proposal. It's temporary in Article 11. We would like to add the statement "The Public Hospital Association of Public Hospitals" to come after the statement of "The Health Ministry Country Organization, Turkish Public Health Association Laboratory Laboratories Country personnel." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu Sedef Küçük Celal Dinçer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added at the end of Article 11 of the temporary Article 375, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 42 in the framework of the current Law Proposal. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu "As long as they have been appointed or appointed to the general staffs subject to Law 657, for the reasons for the closure, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution, for the dissolution of public legal personalities, for the dissolution, for the disbursement, for the disbursement, for the dissolutionsion of acts, and for the payment of the services of the general class, under Article 152 of the law shall be paid in accordance with the amount of Article 152. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0420par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0118	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0421par0119	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0120	Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0422par0121	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0122	I'm reading the reason: The financial rights of those assigned to investigative titles are intended to be reorganised. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-two of the current law proposal. It's temporary in Article 11. We would like to add the statement "The Public Hospital Association of Public Hospitals" to come after the statement of "The Health Ministry Country Organization, Turkish Public Health Association Laboratory Laboratories Country personnel." The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0423par0131	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0132	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0424par0133	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0419par0134	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0425par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a pledge on the 42nd article of bag number 546. I salute the lawmakers who say that the workers should be paid equal wages for the same work, which does not divide by 4/A, 4/B, 4/C, subcontractors, civil servants, workers. My dear friends, with this Article 42, you are changing the interim Article 11 of the Code of Law 375. What, though, was this interim Article 11? The office ruled on a pension and a severance pay and an additional settlement. Now, do you know what you're doing with this change? I swear you don't know 99 percent. When a lawyer reads this arrangement that you have made, let him draw my ear if he understands it in a reading. The arrangement of Article 42 is half a page, and on this half page, you have written all sorts of technical phrases that can be written in the law. I mean, you've been referring to the decrees that have been lifted, you've been referring to the previous provisions, the multiplications, or something like that. I mean, you did everything you could to keep it from being understood. Well, what don't you call it? You're not saying one thing: What if we pay equal wages for equal work? If you think about it, let him get that much money, that's how much money you want him to get. I mean, you're violating a very simple universal human right. People who do equal work should be paid equally. Instead of doing this, you make it complicated until Ahmet gets this much, Mehmet gets that much. Now there's no way you can understand what I'm trying to tell you here, no matter how much I try to tell you. I'll show you a cartoon. If we could talk here for hours and days, we wouldn't be able to tell what a cartoon told us. Look, this cartoon here... you see how you make things complicated in this cartoon. Dear Moses Kart says by making this cartoon, don't create tension. We promised, we'll figure it out. When you try to solve it, you mess it up, you mess it up!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0426par0141	He's for you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0425par0142	There's no way you're going to solve this under normal circumstances. Why? Because you're not looking for compromise in any way in the law.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0427par0143	Would you look at the date of the cartoon?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0425par0144	If you were looking for a compromise in the law, you wouldn't be doing this complicated work until today. All the workers, all the officers, all the workers, want one thing from you, says, "O AKP MPs, I don't want to get paid differently this month, I don't want to get paid differently next month." I don't want to get paid any different than my friend who does the same job as me. At the end of this month, I don't want to calculate whether or not I'm going to be able to get the rent on the house to pay for the daycare. Let me know my money, let me know my work, let me live by it. But what are you doing? No, you're passing on severance whatever you want, whatever kind of money you want, whatever kind of money you want, and you don't pass on what you don't want. Now, that's what you do with this bill. Let me give you an example of my profession: in my profession, when a doctor with the same specialty looks at the same number of patients, he charges two different hospitals. Is that an understanding? Now, where you're going to fix that understanding, you've made it more complicated and you can't get out of it. And do people who apply to the courts because of the laws you've made, make similar decisions, equal decisions from the courts? No, he can't. Look, I'm showing you a case result. As a result of this case, the people of 4/C are saying that we contribute to the creation of spinning capital in the hospital. So we want a share of the return capital. He says, "Yes, you're right." Diyarbakır says, "No." Why? Because even the judges don't understand your law. Shame on you! Keep it up, keep it up, keep the worker's rights.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0428par0150	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit the following joke to and propose after the statement "Laboratorys of the Laboratorys" and to the end of the statement "and to the end of the statement of the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution" and the same interim clause, under which the framework shall be replaced with Article 42. "The deputy manager is appointed to the equal or higher administrative positions, or appointed to those who are subject to Law 657, as long as they are on this staff, as long as they are on the same staff, as long as they are on the same level of compensation, as long as they are on the same side of Article 152 of the Law which is paid for the increase and compensations of the law, as well as Article 375 of Law. The provisions of this joke are also applied in Article 657 under Article 91, the second amendment of Article 657, to be compensated for the difference, and to be paid in additional payments from the return capital budget, under Article 13 of the Act 663, which is part of the interim Article 13 of the Constitution, and cannot be paid in addition under Law 209." Tülay Kaynarca (Istanbul) and his companions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0429par0158	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0428par0159	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0430par0160	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0431par0161	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0428par0162	I'm reading the reason: In the Article 6/4/2011 and under the Law of Law No. 666 under Law No. 666, the Court of Law 375 has been added to the provisions of the Court of Justice and the Court of the Constitution for the reorganisation of the interim Article 11 which has been annulled on the grounds that it does not apply to the current Article of Matters, and the rights of the Investigative Staff are intended to be reorganised. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0432par0167	The decision is sufficient, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0428par0168	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's been a disagreement between the clerks. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0433par0173	Mr. President, you said one minute, you gave me two minutes, you have to stop at the end of a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit06spe0428par0174	We gave it a minute, don't worry, it'll stop. The tech guy got it wrong. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0428par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 546. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0434par0004	There's enough to decide on the motion...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0428par0005	On Article 44, I will submit to your votes the motion of Tunceli MP Kamer Young and his friends and call for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0435par0007	There isn't. 109 people.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0436par0008	Mr. President, there is...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0435par0009	109 people.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0437par0010	Yeah, there's been a disagreement between the clerks. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0438par0013	Mr. President, have a heart!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0439par0014	I counted, 109 people, one by one.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0437par0015	It's not the first time I've done this.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0440par0016	Mr. President, if you hesitate, you'll ask from there, you see it's not there. Sir, if you hesitate, you'll ask there. Oh, come on, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0437par0017	You can vote and roll call with the electronic device, even though it's in doubt, so don't worry!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0440par0018	You see, you saw it wasn't there, so there's no hesitation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0437par0019	Mr. Korkmaz, relax.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0440par0020	Mr. President, you've been on the bench for years. Look, we want to trust you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0437par0021	Don't hesitate, sir, don't worry!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0441par0022	Mr. President, why are you giving me a minute? I can't reach it for a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0442par0023	Mr. President, which scribe said there was enough? I'm curious.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0443par0024	The scribe, who says there is, will be telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0444par0026	Yes, lawmakers, there's a sufficient number of decisions, the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 45, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework of the current Law Proposal shall be removed from the proposal text of Article 45, and that the matter numbers be identified accordingly. Mustafa Elitaş Fatih Şahin Durdu Mehmet Kastal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0445par0036	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0444par0037	Does the government agree? We'll leave it up to appreciation, Mr. President. Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0446par0040	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0444par0041	I'm reading the reason: The item is intended to be removed from the text, since a general arrangement has been made regarding the financial rights of those assigned to the investigative staff. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. So the 45th article came out of the proposal text. To avoid any confusion, we will proceed through the current material numbers of the commission text. Article numbers will be identified during the writing of the law. There are two motions in Article 46: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the four-quarters of the law proposed by 546 rows be replaced in the form of three. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the 1st (h) to the first joke of Article 6 of Service Units 46 of the 546 Numbered Law Proposal. fucking women's children's incentives to sports and support services Pervin Buldan Hasip Tiger Bengi Star Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0447par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0444par0063	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hasip Kaplan Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0448par0067	Dear friends, you've got it all wrong. I mean, what's a reassignment like this in the ministries for? I mean, it's hard to understand. Every institution has its function, its purpose. When you look here, the Head of Guidance and Control... you will guide and supervise, what's that like? You're changing the joke of Article 5 of the law. You don't see the verdict, you change the joke, you make it legal. You've turned this House into a law factory, my friends. You're making laws, you're making bags, you're making false laws. And because you're wrong, you try to correct wrong with wrong. Last time, you brought in the Internet bans in a bag of laws. This is where we told you about these Internet bans. Friends, curfew doesn't give anyone anything, censorship doesn't give anyone anything, you hand over the pressure to one administration, you leave it to a department of administration, you don't look for a court order, you violate Article 22 of the Constitution. Look, in freedom of communication, it says that unless there is a ruling, this Constitution has changed in 2001, it's new. Now, what did the President do with the Constitution? Despite all the public responses, despite the international response, he was going to use the veto authority required by his office and the mission to take him to a couple of things he was uncomfortable with or to the Constitutional Court to cancel. He didn't do it. He's the head of the administration, Mr. President. He started designing us to the House, trying to adjust the House, meeting here, interfering with the ruling party, the Parliament. I approved his advice and advice when he was interfering with the parliament at 8:30 from Twitter, but I also set up the Assembly. He tweeted. Have you guys digested the intervention of the Chankaya Mansion, the executive, which says it has arranged the parliament with a tweet? Did you swallow it? Imagine that the law is approved at 8:30, and the ruling party two hours after 20.30 is offering the law on the Internet, and we're talking about it upstairs in the commission, and now we're correcting it in that bag. So two and a half hours after a law was passed -- without living -- the same legislators of the same House, bringing the same power, offering the same law, says this law proposal is about Internet bans. Sir, they'll give everyone their traffic information. Who entered from the Internet, who entered from the URL, who entered from the IP, who entered from the whatever service, all will be revealed. Instead, let's limit it. The Minister came to see us. When the Minister sees us, he says I'll soften it up a bit. But in this censorship, a judge's decision was asked in 24 hours to go before the Constitutional Court and intercept the cancellation application. That's not the way you want to solve a judge's decision. After all, it's a forbidden understanding. You can't go around with this banned concept. The legislature, the will of the nation, the Parliamentary Assembly, must say: Mr. President, please don't design us, don't direct us, don't adjust us. And you've started making laws that have half an hour's life. Do you realize the mistakes you've made? Half an hour... the life of a butterfly is no longer your law, so be aware of that. I wanted to remind you of that.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0070	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0450par0074	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0075	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Acar, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Şaş, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Onur and Mr. Aldan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0086	Mr. President, how much is it, please... how many are there, how many are there, how many are there?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0087	Here, with the electronic device, Mr...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0088	But how many people, let's find out.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0089	No, that's all our apps.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0090	You mean 191 people?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0091	We cut it, sir. We cut it when we find 165.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0092	So we've found the 165, we're cutting it off. So there is. We found 165...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0093	It's on the electronics. How are we supposed to do that?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0094	Explain the number, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0095	We'll print it out.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0096	That's the job of the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0097	We're printing it out, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0451par0098	But you're explaining it before you can look at both members.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0099	Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the four-quarters of the law proposed by 546 rows be replaced in the form of three. Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0452par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0449par0106	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mesut Dedeoğlu wants to speak on the motion, Kahramanmarash MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0453par0111	Mr. President, I have been promised by the National Movement Party Group that we have submitted a amendment motion on Article 46 of the Law Proposal on the amendment to some Law and Law Orders of 546. I hereby salute your high council. Members of parliament, under Article 46 of the law proposal, amendments are being made in the Court of Law on the Offices of the Ministry of Youth and Sports No. 638. The number of Undersecretaries serving in the Ministry has been raised from two to four, while a new Head of Guidance and Control is established within the Ministry. We say that the Head of Guidance and Control that will be established should serve the students with good intentions. This chairmanship should not be transformed into the head of a reckoning. The audits must be done without becoming a reckoning, without hurting or hurting students, otherwise the government will cause new problems instead of removing student problems. The government must immediately address the student housing and housing problems. In this regard, we need to go to a comprehensive study of removing their shortcomings. In our country, dorm problems have become one of the most important problems that college students have ever faced. State dorms in Turkey are inadequate. Many students remain exposed during the course of their studies, at the beginning of their studies, I'm afraid. College students who have long been on reserve lists are forced to find a place in public dorms. These students are either in various homes or private dorms based on the economic and social status of the family. Thousands of students who have moved away from home and home to study abroad continue to be disappointed about the dorm. Students who do not want to burden their families should not choose to study or find a special scholarship for free. The state must allocate reasonable scholarships to all its students. Therefore, the government must work hard to resolve the problems of housing and scholarships across the country as soon as possible. The problems in student dorms are also happening in Kahramanmarash, as in all Turkey. Our students, who won Kahramanmarash Milkyman University at the beginning of the semester, are experiencing great difficulties in finding a home and not getting in line. The halls of girls and boys must be made immediately, as necessary, in our province of Heromarash. Rooms should be considered instead of common use in dorms. In every room, electronic vehicles, such as refrigerators, are often used in daily and life, must be given space. The services provided for food and nutrition in the dorms must be subsidized and provided to students at very appropriate prices. Student dorms should be removed from being a burden to students and family. In the dorms, everything must be considered in the most detailed way. The ministry must be brought to the forefront in safety, far from the business mentality. Student dorms must be secured and made available for study. Students who stay in unfavourable dorms suffer from problems and fall behind in their studies. In our country, student dorms and poor conditions must be healed. No one likes it, no longer has to build student housing in useless buildings, and it has to go to private projects. I hereby salute the High Council with the honor of requesting the acceptance of our amendment proposal. (Applause from MHP rows)
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0454par0117	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 47: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-seven of the proposed law. We would like to change the term "President of Guidance and Control" to "President of the Council of Medicine and Investigation." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Sedef Little Aylin Nazlıaka
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0455par0127	Mr. President, we have a motion at 46, we signed it yesterday. Must have been a technical problem.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0454par0128	We don't see any written motion here, sir, on item 46. We've already voted on the item. The Republican People's Party has no motion, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0455par0129	No, sir, we signed it yesterday.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0456par0130	It's been discussed, it's been voted on. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and to change the expression "failance, processing and personnel" under the mandate of the 546 Term Numbered Law proposal, which is added to Article 8/B's Article 8/B additional Article 8/B, into the term "failance, processing and personnel' fiscal control." Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of the first joke (b) in Article 8/38, which is added to Article 638 and Article 638 of the framework 47 of the proposed law proposal in 546 rows, as follows. Özcan Yeniçeri Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Mesut Dedeoğlu S. Nevzat Don't Fear "b) With an understanding of the educational and guidance approach to conduct operations on the activities and personnel of the ministry and of all institutions and institutions under their control, and to do research and investigations if necessary."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0457par0144	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0458par0145	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0457par0146	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0459par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I'm afraid I'm going to have to start with some sad news. In the 23rd term, our resident from Isparta Yalvanç, an expert corporal, Gökhan Aslan, falls to the ground during the Pentathlon inspection of our unit, faints, and there -- according to our senses -- the commander doesn't intervene; let him go. Later, however, it was reported that the child's tongue had gone down his throat and died. There's really been a lot of negligence. Again, what we're hearing is there's no ambulance, no medical team. Of course, we don't have to say much at the moment, the military prosecutor is expected, but I ask God's mercy on this brother, and my condolences on the behalf of our dear fellow citizens, the Isparta MPs. May God meet those who love him in heaven. Dear friends, of course, here comes the issue of terror martyrs and mission martyrs again. Our coven would've taken care of a lot of these problems, but there's still some trouble during this burial ceremony. Hopefully, we demand that this be resolved immediately. We believe that the majority of the Justice and Development Party in particular should now find a solution to this issue and, at the same time, to the problems of members of the Turkish Armed Forces. These brothers we've sent to fight terrorism -- specialists, expert gendarmes, petty officers, friends -- are expecting some value and value from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, especially the Turkish Armed Forces. We've expressed these problems over and over, but unfortunately, the Justice and Development Party's majority of Congress has taken no initiative, and nothing about the solution to these problems has been raised, unfortunately. Dear friends, who will solve this problem if Turkey's Grand National Assembly doesn't? I mean, these precious brothers who put their lives and their blood on the line, I guess I think they deserve that much value and value. I find it hard to understand what you're waiting for, what you're waiting for. Meanwhile, I have a word with the Turkish Armed Forces. I mean, these are the proud members of the glorious army. By not moving your hair to eliminate these problems, you're actually causing some sort of conflict with the Turkish Armed Forces. It's not all about the law. We've said it before. So with a directive from the Chief of Staff, from between the two lips of the Secretary of Defense before the law is passed, a significant part of these problems will be solved, but they're still on hold, and they're still on the door wall. Look, there's an avalanche coming from above, I have to warn you. Now our brothers and sisters from our Parliament and the Turkish Armed Forces have given up hope. When you go online, you see reactions that have never been seen in the history of the Turkish Armed Forces. Did you know, dear friends, that they've decided to start a death fast? Is this ever an incident in the Turkish Armed Forces? What are you waiting for? Of course, it's not an easy decision to make. They're really desperate when they make that decision. We've told you so many times, at least solve a few of these problems. Let the people hope that these problems will be solved in the future. But in one night, you take down the law on the Undersecretary of MIT, you take down the law on the HSYK, you don't move to eliminate the problems of thousands of people with their families. And then you get angry. You brought law into the interests of the nation and the opposition said no? These children are entrusted to the Turkish Armed Forces and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's no way we can wait any longer. And after that painful incident, I wanted to share this matter with you once again. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0460par0160	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0461par0161	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0460par0162	Wait a second, I've got people who want a word, I promise. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0462par0166	As Isparta MP Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz said from the bench, Gökhan Aslan, from the village of Yalvaç, in Isparta province, lost his life during training while he served as an expert sergeant in Istanbul Tuzla. According to our information, there was an intervention at around four or fifteen o'clock. Of course, if there's any negligence here, if there's a flaw, we'll follow it to the end. I offer him God's mercy and my condolences to his family.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit07spe0460par0167	Thank you. No one else wants to talk about it. We ask for God's mercy to Gökhan Aslan, and we offer our condolences to his bitter relatives. [[Continue]] I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0460par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 64th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz and the decision to vote on his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 546. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We would like to propose and propose that the statement of the 546 Numbered Law Proposal shall be changed in the form of fiscal control of the 546th Article 8/B, which is added to the Article 8/B, and shall be replaced in the form of the accountability, processing, and personnel. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0463par0012	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0460par0013	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0464par0016	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you know that we're attempting to replace a clause of the ordinance with an offer of the law? I mean, why do they keep you awake and play with your health? It's not a decree? How do you guys change the clause of the decree with the law? What way is that?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0465par0017	We've done it, we've done it. They're saying, what's the matter?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0466par0018	The Council of Ministers can't change the rule of law.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0464par0019	I'll tell you a joke backstage, not everything works that way. Guys, you're changing the decree to a law proposal. And then the CHP takes him to the Supreme Court, and you get angry; it's cancelled, and you get angry again. So you can't find a better lawyer during your mastery period? So you really have to make these mistakes? Look, whose subject is the subject of control? The House is overseeing public economic initiatives, isn't it? He's doing it, and he's doing it with the ministries. And who oversees the budgets of the ministry, the general budgets and the additions? Court. We had a court fight from morning until evening at the budget talks. You have placed a clause here in the court, only regarding the Ministry of Sports, in violation of Article No. 638 and Article 191 of the Constitution. When these decrees were published in the Official Gazette, before the April 14, 2011 elections, these decrees were issued and they were not discussed in Parliament. As it has not been seen, since it has not been accepted so far, they are not even the law because it does not continue. Well, you're replacing what's not the law with what's not the law. Now, this is an interesting situation. Let him go, sir, what you've given the Head of Guidance Control here -- his name does everything in parentheses -- look, any audit, service, purpose, budget, or whatever -- sir, these are the Court's duties, the Court's audits. I ask you, for God's sake, to go and read the Court's report on the Maritime Mortgatory of Loans. 24 violations have been detected concerning the seaman, 24 of them. The construction of the house, the tender, the canteen, the contract... in just one court report -- look, it's a decree on the Department of Sports -- 24 violations only, it's only about Denizli. And it came to pass at that time, in Denizli, the discussion of the boy-girl houses, and the dorms. Of course, if there are 70,000 students who don't fit in your dorms, where will they study? You have eight to ten thousand homes, and you have 8,000 homes with capacity, and you say, "Let 80 thousand people fit in here. If it doesn't fit, it will read, and where will it stay when it does?" Apart rents apartments. Because Apart rented the apartments, you destroyed Denizli, because the apartments were block by block in Denizli, and because the sea was side by side, and you blacked out Denizli's name... you didn't leave out what you said about Denizli. Instead of doing that, read the Court's report, you may not be able to read it, there are over 20 violations, see, only about the sport of Denizli. Guys, I just made an offer upstairs in a bag. Do you know that 1 million students are out of college, unemployed, unable to pay for their scholarships, they're foreclosures? Do you know that they're being repossessed foreclosured for a million scholarships to a jobless, unemployed, underprivileged college graduates who can't get a job, who just got married? Do this for God's sake, and do good, or make for yourselves the way to Paradise. And sometimes do good, think about it. I mean, you come in here, you put your hand down. Read some, for God's sake, what's going on, what's going on? Well, there's something going on in this; why do the laws change in one day, in two hours? You don't read it, then why do these laws change in two hours? Let's change this style, guys. It's not working. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0467par0025	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-seven of the proposed law. We would like to change the term "President of Guidance and Control" to "President of the Council of Medicine and Investigation." Aylin Nazlıaka (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0468par0032	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0467par0033	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0469par0037	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. Now, when I just spoke to him, there were some reactions when I told him that some of you didn't fully qualify for that chair. Look, I'm going to ask you a very simple question to see if these reactions are right or wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0470par0039	Mind your own fucking lines! Speak on matter, on suggestion!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0469par0040	I'm going to tell you the name of a citizen, and I'm going to tell you about a name that's written like a seal on all of our foreheads, and see if that name means anything to you, dear friends: Salih Hero Tekin.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0471par0041	You have no right!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0469par0042	Does the name Salih Hero Tekin mean anything to you or to you? You just stare at me like that, it doesn't mean anything! Why, why?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0472par0044	Let's see why it's empty.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0473par0045	I know Mansur Slowly!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0474par0046	Mr. Nazliaka, please!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0475par0047	You're disrespectful, disrespectful! You can't be so disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0476par0048	There is no respect! And there's gonna be a lady!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0477par0049	Do you know that on December 17th, the day of the greatest corruption and bribery operation in the history of the Republic, this is the man who burned himself in front of the House? And you know what he said when he burned himself?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0478par0050	What did he say? We don't know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0477par0051	He said, "I'm hungry, I'm hungry!"
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0478par0052	Oh, yeah!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0477par0053	Isn't that a clear, clean statement? Because he couldn't meet his most basic need, this citizen burned himself and died in the hospital ten days later. But, of course, you're not aware of any of this because on December 17th, you were preoccupied with other subjects. Look, we see that you have neither eyes nor bellies, some of you precious deputies. (AK PARTI) I salute those who are disturbed by this, but the 700,000-dollar watches, the visit to Umre, the villas from the first-degree status area, the millions of dollars in shoeboxes, the counting machines from their minister's son's house, the vaults that are the height of their minister's son's house, none of which I can tell you are keeping your eyes off. In fact, you're not getting enough. I'm hungry. I'd like to give you a few examples of this. See, the former Minister, Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin had consumed 56,000 TL in three months; 56,000 TL in three months. Look, imagine. Imagine a core in four sacks, the size of Fatma Hawk. If Fatma Hawk ate the core from morning to evening, those four sacks won't be able to finish four sacks of seeds every day. Where does this 56,000 TL come from? Guys, shame on you. That was not enough, but recently it turned out that Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek was costing 20,000 TL cake. So let's roughly calculate: if a cake were $50, it would be 400 pies, 400 cakes. Have mercy, friends! So, if they can't find bread, let them eat cake. It's a head, nothing else, I'll tell you. So you don't get enough of it, you don't get enough of it, you don't get enough of it. You're eating this country until it sneezes, but we'll never, ever let that happen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0479par0056	Let him speak in a clean language.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0477par0057	Look, dear friends, the Prime Minister and today...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0479par0058	Mr. President, invite him to a clean language, a clean one.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0480par0059	Watch your language, straight! It suits you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0477par0060	Mr. President, I assume you'll give me an extension. I think you'll give me an extension, Mr. President, because they're taking it out of my time.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0481par0062	I'm warning you, what do you want me to do?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0482par0063	Mr. President, invite him to a clean language.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0481par0064	Congressmans, please be quiet.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0065	Extra time, extra time...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0481par0066	Please, Mr. Nazliaka, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0067	If you won't give me an extension, I'll finish my speech here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0481par0068	Mr. Nazlıaka, continue your speech. You're causing...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0484par0069	Invite him to a pure tongue, and he will speak with a clean tongue.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0070	Look, dear friends, yesterday and today the Prime Minister has continued to be Kabatatan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0485par0071	Did Mansur upset your psychology? Did Mansur upset your psychology?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0072	An AK PARTY MP, AKP MP, was on a TV channel yesterday and said...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0485par0074	Who's the sneezer? You drool... who sneezes and chokes?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0486par0075	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0076	...a statement by Aylin Nazlıaka....about Kabataş....that newspaper also made headlines. How do they make headlines?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0487par0077	Oh, for God's sake! You're going to defend women's rights, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0078	I mean, on the one hand, he's trying to adjust the press...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0488par0079	It doesn't suit a lady.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0080	...and on the other hand, with the Bludgeon incident, I've been trying to trick the public in a different way...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0488par0081	The sneeze, the stuffing...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0082	...by convincing me and saying that I'm a citizen with a headdress...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0488par0083	Come on, let Mansur take you down, Mansur!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0489par0084	You're going to defend women's rights, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0085	...to sow hatred and hatred amongst the people, to divide and divide.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0488par0086	Mansur has corrupted your psychology, Mansur.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0087	Well, we'll never, ever let that happen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0490par0088	Woe to you, women, if you do not defend what is written there! I wouldn't call you a women's advocate. You can't be a women's advocate. If you don't defend the woman in Kabataş, you can't be a defender of women. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0089	As much as you're trying to put pressure on the press...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0491par0091	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0483par0092	I can't thank you, Mr. President, they took my time.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0492par0093	Shame on you! Spill your drool, drool!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0493par0094	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0494par0095	No, we don't have that app. Please, Mr. Nazliaka...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0495par0096	He didn't speak a clear language, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0494par0097	That's all the talk, Mr. Nazliaka. Come in, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0496par0100	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0494par0101	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0496par0102	He's just accused our group of theft and corruption, which will implicate all lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0494par0103	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Let's not get into any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0496par0107	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. My dear friends, first you will see your own curve, and you will not give away the curves that you've uncovered in your eyes. You're going to evaluate the part about your curve, you're going to clean it up, and then you're going to accuse others.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0497par0109	Tell me what it is and we'll find out.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0498par0110	You don't have a straight side, you're all crooked!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0496par0111	Look, there are pictures. There's a file that Mr. Kilicdaroglu filed when he was Deputy Leader of the Group while he was running for Mayor of İstanbul.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0497par0112	Abdullah Gül is with Abdullah Gül.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0499par0113	Abdullah Gül has a file.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0500par0114	There's a file of yours there, too.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0115	In that file it says "corruption," it says "Sarigül" in that file.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0502par0116	The best defense is the offense. There is also the attack.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0117	In accordance with his instructions from Mr. Baykal, Kılıçdaroglu would have made that Saricul (Solgungül) into "Solgungül (Solgungül)."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0503par0118	Well, well, well, well, well, well.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0119	However, whatever wisdom it was, we saw its end.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0503par0120	No one believes it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0121	In accordance with your instructions, according to your instructions, it says: "There is no spirit of Tekin...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0504par0122	Too bad, too bad! You're telling this public like it's real!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0503par0123	What have you been doing in this country for 11 years?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0124	Your vice president says: "There's no Güyük Tekin, praise be to Allah, Sarigül has become."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0505par0125	So what? Why are you getting so hurt?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0506par0126	I mean, what does December 17th corruption have to do with it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0127	Now, look here, Mr. Nazlıaka, the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor is trying to insult the AK PARTY group with the lameness of losing his candidacy to Mansur Sever.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0506par0129	Yeah, aren't their minister's kids under arrest right now?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0130	You have slandered us on a matter that has been unfairly critical of the AK PARTI's power with newspaper reports, insulting beyond criticism, not determined for its righteousness or error.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0507par0131	Yeah, the minister's kids are under arrest, they're under arrest!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0132	But with a woman's statement, you're exploiting a subject determined in the coroner's report.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0508par0133	Where was it made? You're making the abuse, you!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0501par0134	As women's deputies, not protecting women's rights has left me with a great deal of grief, believe me. I'm referring you to the Turkish women. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0509par0137	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0138	Mr. President, he has accused me of being a loser.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0511par0140	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0509par0141	I can't tell, sir, just a second...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0142	There's a direct assault on me, so I'd like two minutes of your word.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0509par0143	Here you go, Mr. Nazlıaka.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we all know how uncomfortable you are with the discovery of this Kabataş lie, and we all know it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0512par0146	How do you know it's a lie?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0513par0147	It turns out you don't know the answer to what you just asked!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0148	First they drank at the mosque. You said...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0512par0149	Of course they did.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0150	...they entered the mosque in shoes. You said...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0512par0151	They got in, didn't they?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0514par0152	That's a lie. Prove it to whoever broke in.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0153	...from the back, you made up the Kababad lie, but all your lies came out one by one, so you're very uncomfortable.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0512par0154	Yeah, how can you tell so many lies at the same time?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0155	But I have a suggestion for you...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0515par0156	How do you think anyone who's been exposed to violence can lie?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0157	...come, stop politics through our beliefs, through our traditions, through great feelings like motherhood.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0516par0158	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0159	I'm saying stop exploiting people's emotions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0160	What kind of woman are you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0161	Look, dear friends, the lie gallops, the truth goes step by step, but it gets there on time.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0162	What kind of woman are you? How can you talk here when you're being molested by a woman? I didn't mean to...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0518par0163	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0164	Now he's wearing a hat, looking bald. So take it that way.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0165	What a woman you are! What kind of woman are you when there are reports?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0518par0166	Mr. Dalyan, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0167	As for what Mr. Elitaş said to me, I take it as a joke.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0168	What kind of woman are you? You're a disgrace to her! A woman is being molested, and you can still talk and laugh, shamelessly!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0169	Because at least in our party, he has the right to run for office. Don't you think I might have been sitting in that minister's chair?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0171	How shamelessly do you speak to a woman?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0519par0172	Mr. Dalyan, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0173	Why is only one of us in the minister's seat?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0174	How do you talk to a woman? A woman gets molested, someone gets molested, and you talk shamelessly!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0519par0175	Mr. Dalyan, sit down, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0176	Couldn't I have been Secretary of Defense? Can't you say I couldn't be Minister of National Education?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0177	What a face, what a expression, what a vulgarity!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0178	You can't say that because you don't even have the right to ask.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0180	And you don't have to be ashamed to do it with your hands like this. What kind of woman are you, shamelessly speaking, laughing? What kind of woman are you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0181	Because you're used to obedience, you're used to the culture of beer. So the ornamental plants remain a compliment to you, a compliment.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0517par0182	How dare you speak shamelessly? I'm not gonna make you talk here. You're rude!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0520par0183	Mr. Dalyan...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0510par0184	That's what it says, I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0520par0186	Thank you. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 48: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48 of the proposed law. We propose that the number of supervisors in the rule number (I) should be determined as 5. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu Ali Riza Özturk Aydın Aghadın Izzet Cetin Sedef Little Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the chapter on 546 rows of law be removed from the list, which is listed on the list of additional provisions added to the framework of Article 48/38 and under the ordinance of the Law (3). Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yılmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment of the Law Proposal on the amendment of some Laws and Laws in the 546 rows that the following rankings will be added to Article 638 under Article 638 and shall be changed to the list of additional articles under Article 2 (responsible to Article 2) (3), which will be included in the total column of the list. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Tülay Kaynarca اGIH Investigator 1515 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0521par0215	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0520par0216	Does the government agree? - We agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: Investigative staff is violated due to the need for youth and sports. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to ask that the chapter on 546 rows of law be removed from the list, which is listed on the list of additional provisions added to the framework of Article 48/38 and under the ordinance of the Law (3). Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0522par0227	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0520par0228	Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0232	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 48. I salute you all. Now, there are some discussions going on here. Whatever you come to my presence, I will forgive you, but don't come to the servant's right. At this point, God does not allow anyone to go to that place with his own right. And don't let him support her.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0524par0234	Amen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0235	At this point, I'm saying that we're going through a process where everyone needs to be sensitive.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0524par0236	I hope you watch your tongue, you won't get your rights.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0237	Mr. Metiner, I warned you again, don't insult me, and I won't answer you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0524par0238	We cleanse you of sin.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0239	God knows who is guilty of sin. Congressmans, now...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0525par0241	Don't talk, don't talk.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0242	I'm not gonna be a reporter, so he's ruining our thing. Normally I'd talk about matter, but then I'd like to discuss some things while Mehmet Ali Şahin is here. And you take upon yourselves all that has been done for twelve years, and all that has been done is good, and you say, "We have done this, and we have done this, and we have done this." We're capable, we're powerful, we're powerful. But no matter how many negative jobs there are, whatever you're criticizing today, whatever happened to that power of twelve years, he created a parallel state, he set up a parallel state, he blames it all on him. Now, Mehmet Ali Şahin here, Vice President of the time, Minister of Justice of Justice, says: "There are members of the high judiciary in the Supreme Court who received instructions from Pennsylvania." So, there were those who received instructions from outside the law, and there were those who received instructions from outside the law, and what work did you do as Minister of Justice, Mr. Secretary of Justice, which investigation did you open, what did you open, what did you do, and what did you do it. Now, that's not what you're talking about! (Applause from MHP rows) Years passed, December 17th, and on December 17th, bribes and thefts took place. That capable Minister of Justice of times... changing judges, prosecutors, coming out with HSYK decisions, removing custody from the judge's court. He says, "I'm not someone's backyard." The minister, who says, "Look, you're going to say all this... you're going to go to the nation, you're going to vote, you're going to vote, you're going to throw this crime at someone in the parallel state, you're going to create a parallel state... you're going to take your note and you're going to answer: weren't the Minister of Justice at that time? Are you Mehmet Agha in our Hamidiye village who is suffering from the parallel state, the high judiciary? [[A round of applause from MHP and CHP rows]] Now, I'm telling you, good lawmakers, for 12 years, you're gonna have to pull all the positive stuff out of yourself... okay? Do you know why you had to run for office? We've removed military custody, you said. Yesterday, the Prime Minister says that even this decent military government has infiltrated. Wasn't it you, Mr. Prime Minister, when those military commanders were being brought in one by one, when they were being brought in, when they were being brought into prisons, in the newspapers... today you're shouting, or you're saying, "There's someone else behind them," you say, "There's someone else behind them."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0526par0247	Wasn't Mehmet Ali Şahin the one who said there was going to be a lot after the Supreme Court attack?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0248	There were no unspoken words about those soldiers. Isn't that the purity of the universe at that time? Then, Mr. Prime Minister, weren't the soldiers nice to that soldier? Today, the Prime Minister says: "When did that parallel state pass out?" Mr. Secretary, didn't you have that parallel state in your day? Isn't that parallel structure?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0526par0249	I did.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0523par0250	Nothing will ever be the same, you say. Now, if you'll come out here and be frank with me, then your apology will be accepted by the nation: Yes, we knew about that parallel state, we were acting with that parallel state. While we were removing military custody from this country, removing judicial custody from this country, we succeeded in what we today call a parallel state. But today, with that parallel structure, our interests conflicted with the group, the power conflict came together, somehow we had to destroy them from this power, and now we push the button to destroy them. We have to put the corruption of the 17th of December and the corruption of the century on top of one group so we can get out of here. How else are you going to get out of here? ▪ Do you have nothing else to talk about? Millions of dollars, billions of dollars, what are we going to talk about when this citizen gets his rights? While people are dying of pain, while you're taking away millions of dollars, what are we going to talk about? What are we going to talk about when people are working on unemployment and someone's moving millions of dollars? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It would be wrong if we talked about something else. Why do you keep us working till morning, to protect yourself? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0527par0255	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0528par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0527par0257	Here you are, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0528par0258	Mr. President, the valuable speaker also mentions my name...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0529par0259	Yes, I did.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0528par0260	...he made some allegations. An explanation...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0530par0261	What claim, Mr. Hawk?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0531par0262	He said Mehmet Aga (Aga) in Eunuchköy.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0530par0263	One moment, Mr. Lawmakers, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0532par0264	I want to make a statement about something I learned during my time as Minister of Justice, and why didn't you talk to him about it then?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0530par0265	Here you go, Mr. Hawk, and I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0533par0267	Explain the Supreme Court imam. Who's the Supreme Court imam, the Supreme Court imam?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0534par0268	Explain the Supreme Court imam, Mr. Secretary. Who is this Supreme Court imam?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0535par0269	Explain what you're hiding from the House.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0533par0270	Explain the Supreme Court imam in the House, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0536par0271	Let's not get into any more bullying, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0537par0274	Mr. President, my dear friends, I give you all my compliments. Mr. Young has just brought up the same issue, and now our Adana MP, Seyfettin Yilmaz, has brought up a subject by mentioning my name. Some time ago, I made an assessment of what our friend brought up in a conversation I had in Karabuk. I learned that information in the middle of last year, 2013.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0538par0277	Well, that's a waste of Ministry years, then.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0537par0278	But then the Supreme Court President asked me in secret about this member whose name I did not disclose, and I sent what I knew to the Supreme Court with a sealed letter.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0539par0279	If you don't mind, Mr. Secretary, we'll know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0537par0280	I've sent his name and information to the Supreme Court, our Supreme Court, as far as I've learned, he has appointed a judgment. The study continues. Now, when I was Minister of Justice, it was as if I had provided this information.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0540par0281	How do we know it was made at that time?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0537par0282	I've dealt with some allegations that I didn't make any transactions. It's not information I learned when I was Minister of Justice.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0541par0283	Minister, when did that imam enter the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0542par0284	If you don't mind sharing this with the General Assembly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0543par0285	Explain it to all the public.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0544par0286	This is not the name of the friend who entered the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court has asked me to sign off on it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0545par0287	Mr. Secretary of the High Council, explain this to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0544par0288	Allow me to determine where and how to evaluate the information I know, and I will.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0546par0289	The Council must know what the magistrate needs to know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0547par0290	Mr. Secretary, why did you withhold this information from October?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0544par0291	So, thank you for these explanations from our friends.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0548par0292	He also entered the cosmic chamber, Mr. Secretary, and no one found out anything.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0547par0293	If you found out in October, Mr. Secretary, why did you withhold this information?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0549par0294	When was he taken to the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0550par0295	That's the inside of this, it's not information that I learned when I was Minister of Justice, I learned last year, and our Supreme Court is reviewing it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0551par0297	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0552par0298	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0551par0299	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0552par0300	Mr. Secretary has made a statement.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0551par0301	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0552par0303	From mid-2013, he said. It's one thing for a person who's been in the Ministry for a long time until he found out, but after learning, why didn't he explain why he came to his senses in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after December 17th?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0551par0304	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0553par0305	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0552par0306	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0554par0307	Mr. President, well, when he was Minister of Justice, he found out about...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0555par0308	Mr. Young, please, we don't have that kind of procedure. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0556par0315	We've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0555par0316	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0557par0318	No, 89 people.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0555par0320	Yeah, there's been a disagreement between the clerks. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0557par0323	For God's sake, I counted, it's obvious how many there are.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0558par0324	Mr. Muharrem, if that member is clearly absent, there is. If he says there is, you can say there isn't.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0559par0325	In fact, Mr. Engin, in fact, the Speaker of Parliament will decide here, if there is a conflict, he will ask. So you're in charge of this decision, Mr. President. If you're not sure, you'll ask, but look, you're being rude to this House.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0327	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0559par0328	We're counting here...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0329	Mr. Korkmaz, no, I'm asking you, what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0561par0330	What you have to do is easy, you have to look at it and count it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0331	Okay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0562par0332	Sir, look, you'll see, if you see it's not there, you'll decide.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0563par0333	No way!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0334	Sir, there's a vote on the electronic device, even though he's having second thoughts.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0564par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0565par0336	Mr. President, if you disagree, you'll ask for it left and right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0337	I'm asking.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0565par0338	Sir, we're counting 89 people from here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0339	Sir, the clerk members...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0565par0340	How can you disagree?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0560par0341	Please!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0566par0342	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0567par0343	Mr. President, don't...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0568par0344	I call you to neutrality!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0569par0345	No way!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0346	What do you mean? I'm running the House here, and I don't need to ask you, there are clerks here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0568par0347	That's right, we invite neutrality, neutrality. It's okay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0348	It's by the bylaws, yes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0568par0349	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0571par0350	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0352	Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0571par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0354	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0571par0355	Follow a path, and you too, make yourself comfortable, and we too will say: Send one of the scribes backstage, and let him count his fingers by phone from there, and let him not trouble his friends.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0572par0356	How beautiful!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0357	Sir, it's the power party's duty, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0573par0358	It's a good thing you remember it's the ruling party's duty. You're running the House.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0572par0359	Mr. President, you must have done roll call today. You did a roll call. Can you ask the opposition lawmakers, who are doing roll call, who are giving compasses, how much is here? They gave me a compass there, would you ask them about the compasses?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0360	Yes, I'm reading the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 48 of the proposed law. We propose that the number of supervisors in the rule number (I) should be determined as 5. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0574par0365	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0570par0366	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0575par0369	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'll tell you about themonachus, today, get some rest. I'm talking about these monachus monachus. Article 56 of the Constitution: Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the government and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution. Mr. Prime Minister, who says, "I'm a big fan of the environment." He often considers the 59th article of the Constitution, and says: "Of course, we must obey the obligations imposed on us by the Constitution." But he doesn't see the 56th article of the Constitution, which is the equivalent of the environmentalist. Now, dear MPs, I'm the MP of Mersin, I live in Silifke Taşçu. Now, as debates continue on the construction of nuclear power plants in Akkuyu, 30 miles [50 km] from Silifke Taşçu, there are three thermal plants in the large city, and there are plenty of cement plants in Akdere and Yeşilovacık, which are near there. Now, we all know that thermal plants are burned with coal. There's not a coal basin in that area, there's no ounce of coal. These coals will be brought in from the outside, imported, and the construction of port expansion in the Greenovac region for the removal of these coals is under way. As the construction of this port expansion continued, the rocks from the mountains blocked the way for the Mediterranean breeding caves, called the "monachus monachus" monochus. Mediterranean seal breeding caves have been destroyed. Our country has made a commitment to comply with the Bern Convention, and although this is strictly protected by the Treaty of Bern of Bern, despite the fact that construction is now prohibited, and that construction has continued during Bern Conventions, during the 32th Permanent Committee Meeting, in spite of the fact that construction activity has been declared to be a negative influence on the area of the seal living and that Turkey has been warned about its defences, even though it has been asked and watched, it has been assigned to the Bern Convention's secretary. The breeding areas of the Mediterranean seal, which was really few in that region, have been destroyed. In addition, SAD-AFAG has applied to the administrative court, has written to the ministries about the ODTI Institute for Virtue Marine Sciences, and has been asked not to perform this construction work without the completion of the judicial process, the Environmental Effect Evaluation of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation, the 23/10/2012 of the Office of Permission and Control. That's what I said on this council stand. On that date, Mr. Veysel Eroglu said he would take care of it. Mashallah took good care of it, the construction's over. Good luck! A private sector, a very large firm, a firm that may have been a supporter of power, despite that judgment, Yeşilovacık finished building ports, destroying and disbanding the Mediterranean seals' nests. Now, I invite the environmentalist Prime Minister to the post, I invite this Parliament to the post, I invite the Environment Commission to the post. They shouldn't make this country's real cultural riches, tourism fields, go after the capital circles. What are the thermal power plants doing there? It's not a coal basin. Where would they bring coal and burn it there? They're going to produce electricity. At the same time, the nuclear plant, cement plants, and thermal plants, are being tried to be transformed into that Mediterranean black sea. Ladies and gentlemen, I, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, invite the Environment Commission and its relevant institutions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to take over the case. Also, I want Mr. Eco Prime Minister to see those constructions in Silifke. I want him to see how the Mediterranean seals' nests are distributed, and I want the necessary measures taken. I'm also inviting the public prosecutors on duty.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0576par0378	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 49: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-nine of the proposed law. We propose that the number 30 be changed to 25. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ali Riza Özturk Izzet Cetin Sedef Little Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 49 of the current law proposal in 546 rows from the proposal text of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0577par0397	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0576par0398	Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Anyone who wants a word on the motion...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0578par0401	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0576par0402	Mr. Halaçoglu, I'm reading the reason: The current number is sufficient for the ministry advisor and is intended to be removed from the proposal because there is no reason to increase the number. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Forty-nine of the proposed law. We propose that the number 30 be changed to 25. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0579par0411	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0576par0412	Does the government agree? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Ali Serindağ, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0415	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, good evening, and I salute you all. There's so much going on, time is short. Now, when the decree came out in 2011, the number of counselors came out in 2011, and then you made 20 with a change, and now you're doing 30. We're having trouble understanding why. I assume that's because some high-ranking officers have been relieved of duty, so you're picking up a number that fits the cast they're going to transfer, that's the problem. Secondly, he mentioned some of our friends before me, this is a matter of judgment in the law. The decrees under the law are made in Article 91 of the Constitution, and it says, "See, now that you are reacting to certain things, you are not reacting to the removal of your powers. Look, the government is taking away your authority through law enforcement decrees. Open up, see what it says? The decrees are submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on the day they are published in the Official Gazette. In accordance with the laws of authority and laws based on them, the Turkish Parliament commissions and the General Assembly shall be discussed first and immediately. What does it mean to discuss it first and immediately in commissions and in the General Assembly if it waits for years in a law order? So you don't have jurisdiction here? You don't retain your authority, but you react immediately to other words. Now, Mr. Hawk has made a statement, unless, of course, proven otherwise, we would be honored to explain, and I'm not saying anything to him. But in my opinion, you should have asked that question first. Now, whether it's during the Justice Department or on another mission, his position is no less important than the vice president of the ruling party. As soon as he heard the news, he did not reveal it immediately, but later he felt the need to explain. You have to ask these questions, we don't have to ask them, we can't ask all the questions. Besides, we don't get any answers from what we're asking. My dear friends, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are here today, we are gone tomorrow. For that reason, as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we must maintain our authority, our law. Another thing: now, you're uploading everything to a parallel state. So ask the authorities again, ask the government's people, didn't you walk together until today? Mr. Prime Minister, did he or did he not send his deputy to Pennsylvania, asking if he had orders or not?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0581par0423	Hussein Steel...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0424	What else... what did you want? Didn't he say? No, isn't Brünt Arinc going to kiss his hand? And then, after that, now, you say the parallel state, you say the parallel state, you say the masha, you say the whole thing, and you put your responsibility in a movement where you act together. That's how you get the country into a political and legal crisis. My dear friends, you're uploading your own responsibility to a parallel state you invented, which isn't really in the legal literature, not really at all. What is this parallel state?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0582par0428	Let's call it F-type.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0429	What was this parallel state? Type F, parallel state; they're all your creations. You're not...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0582par0430	You were saying that type F...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0431	You can't be his victim.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0582par0432	You said it was an F type.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0433	If there was, you'd be responsible for him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0583par0434	Partners, founding will, parallel state founders.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0435	Now, you know, your Istanbul County Mayor recently announced something last year, he said: ▪ The period of construction is over, the period of construction begins. Some of those who share with us during the construction period may no longer share with us, but they may stand against us.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0583par0436	Here, they built the parallel state.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0580par0437	Although, he meant liberals, he gave them names, but he only gave them the names of liberals, and he meant the others. First you parted ways with them. Now you've invented a concept called the parallel state, and you're placing all the responsibilities on it. I wish you had a parallel state if you had one, but you're using that parallel state phrase to cover up a December 17th bribery and corruption investigation. As members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I say you must oppose it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0584par0440	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0585par0444	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0584par0445	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Acar, Mr. Kören, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Onur, Mr. Eyidoğan and Mr. Şafah. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 50: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 50 of your current legal proposals. We propose that the expression "exported" in the article be changed to "deserved ones." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Aydın Ajan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Sedef Small Levent Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 50 in the framework of the current law proposal 546 rows, as follows. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Kahramanmarash Ankara "A temporary clause of the following has been added to the provisions under the provisions of Article 50-638. "URGAL MADDE 11- (1) The head inspector, head inspector, supervisor, inspector, inspector and controller of the public institutions and institutions entering the competition and competency examination can be appointed without constraints in the Central Board of Directors Act 20/12/2013, and in 2014 without restrictions from the year when this clause is in effect. In the matter of these appointments, Article 7 of the Court of Law shall not be carried out in accordance with Article No. 190." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0586par0472	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0584par0473	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who wants a word on the motion, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0587par0476	Sinan Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0584par0477	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0588par0479	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to play something about the dombra. Today, unfortunately, we see... Dear MPs, you've stolen 2023, the National Movement Party's 2023, and now you're using it as your own. You stole the National Movement Party's Halal Card again, and you're using it as your own. That wasn't enough, even more so, you've already ignored Turk, you haven't accepted Turk. Now that you're acting as vice president of foreign affairs, your MYK member has left, he said: "There is no Turkish." Strangely enough, how strange...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0589par0482	That's a lie.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0588par0483	Well, then, have you ever been able to tell a lie when your own partymate was on TV and expressed it? You couldn't tell a lie.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0589par0484	We've said it 10 times, 10 times.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0588par0485	Now, it's strange that you've taken the music of the Nogay Turks and, in general, the music of the Middle Asian Turks, which is a symbol of Turkishness, you've taken the music of Dombrara, you're making the music of choice now. It is not for him to be your companion, nor is it for him to be your companion. Use the music you visited as an election music or the music you embraced in Diyarbakır as the music of the election. Using Turkish music and making it, unfortunately, political material does not suit you. I want to play it from here. Using Turkish music does not suit you, but as you use everything, you also use "Dombrara" music.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0590par0486	Yeah, can you play the song?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0591par0487	You know, we'd like to hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0588par0488	On top of that, we've done enough separatism, we've done all sorts of insults to the Turks, we've put Turkish nationalism underfoot, we're ranking insults to Turkish nationalism in advance, I wonder if you're looking for a game from the Turks who are going to slap us in the elections with Dombra music -- the ones you insult, the ones you trample underfoot -- to see if we can get a vote out of them through this music.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0591par0489	Mr. Sinan, we'd like to hear it, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0592par0490	Hey, turn on that music, Mr. Sinan. We'd like to hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0593par0492	Please don't be so afraid, don't be so afraid of our music.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0493	I'm sorry, you can use anything, unfortunately, but we saw it on December 17th, and you're very good at stealing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0595par0494	Play it, play it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0596par0495	Pick up, pick up.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0496	You've stolen the name 2023, you've stolen the Halal Cartel, and now you're playing the music "Dombıra."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0597par0497	Let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0498	But you can fool everyone, I don't know, you can go to Egypt and become a BOP player, you can go to Erbil, you can become a Barzanian, but you can't become a Turkist by playing the music of 'Dombıra'. I'm sorry, you can't become a Turkist by playing "Dombrura" music, and we'll see in the elections, hopefully you won't be.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0500	We're not Turkish, thank God.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0501	Mehmet Metiner says, "Thank God we're not Turks."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0502	We're not Turks, we're not Kurds.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0503	We know you're Kurdish, Mehmet Metiner. That's how Turkey found out.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0504	We curse Turkishism and Kurdishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0505	Then play Sivan Perver. You play Mehmet Metiner, Shivan Perveri, Ahmet Kaya.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0506	I curse Kurdishism, can you curse Turkishism?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0599par0507	We don't curse Turkishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0508	You've found enough to use the Turkish music to your political ambitions by being separatist.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0509	Sinan Oğan, no pun intended. I curse Kurdishism, and you curse Turkishism?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0510	You're using the headdress, and you're buried in the shoeboxes.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0511	You're racists!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0512	At a point where you are buried in shoe boxes, the music of the bomb will not save you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0513	You're racist, racist, racist!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0594par0514	Meanwhile, today is Turkishmenistan's Flag Day. I hereby congratulate Turkmenistan on Flag Day.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0600par0516	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0598par0517	Can you fucking say turkishism, can you say turkishism? We never condemn Turkishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0519	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0602par0520	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0521	Mr. President, the Congressman tried to play a piece of music in his speech. We really wanted to hear it. You stole it, you stole our dreams.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0602par0522	Here you are, Mr. Elistash. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0527	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Oğan wanted to play the music here, but it didn't work, so we wanted to...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0603par0528	I stole it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0529	Not heard, not heard.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0604par0530	You don't know him.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0531	We wished that in the 2014 local elections, this piece of music that was an important part of our party...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0605par0532	Let them play you Shivan Perver, Sivan Perver.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0604par0533	You don't know him!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0534	... and we would like to have it heard from here by the MP of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0604par0536	Do you know what it means, Mr. Mustafa?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0537	Look, you stole the precious MPs from us, 2023. You stole 2053...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0606par0538	You stole the Holy Card from us!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0539	You stole 2071 from us. Dear lawmakers, it's not talking, it's not talking, it's acting.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0606par0541	You're saying we'll do it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0542	You're only relieved by your dreams, we're proud of our actions.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0606par0543	We saw your performances on December 17th.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0544	Our 11 years of history is here, and our goals are here to 2023. In this country, for the first time in the history of the republic, a political party, a power, has set a goal for the next decade, and that goal has been set. In 2002, a year later, the targets were being laughed at.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0606par0545	The State Gardener saw him, not you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0546	Look, just now, 21. You're saying at a meeting in 45, that I've seen a lot of openings, but I've never seen a power that opens a car with a battery. You're tying a red ribbon, you're fooling us, you're fooling people with this smart car. [[Interferencing between the AK PARTY and the MHP ranks]] We have information from the Governor of Iğdır: 39 facilities have been opened in total. The total cost of 39 facilities is 355 million, 609,354 liras. For example, the university rectory building you've never seen, the Central Martyr Jahan Counting School you've never seen, like the Iğdır Plain, the 198km irrigation channel you've never seen...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0607par0549	It's been going on for 30 years, the ligature irrigation channel.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0601par0550	The Iğdır-East white is 26km divided, the lğdır-Dilker Border Gate is 86km divided. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Oğan, are you traveling somewhere else, not Iğdır? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0608par0555	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0609par0556	Mr. President mentioned my name and said I was a Kurdish man.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0610par0557	One second, let me make a promise to the vice president of the group, and then, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0609par0558	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0610par0559	I will, for a second, make a promise to the vice president of the group, I'll give it to you, you sit down. I'll ask, I'll ask you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0611par0560	Mr. Elitaş, did the government make them, or did you make them?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0612par0561	Didn't there used to be a government, why didn't these openings used to happen?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0610par0562	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0563	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President has been found without taunting our party, our group.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0610par0564	Why did he pick on you, Mr. Halaçoglu?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0565	You're living with dreams. It's like... we're a political party and we have a program. That we don't live in dreams.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0614par0566	Everybody lives in a dream, what's in it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0610par0567	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0569	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are talking about our co-chair friend, the dombra, but I don't think he knows what a dombra is. Now, let's put that aside. But here's the thing, of course, is that I don't think the National Movement Party knows about the charter, it just means it's a dream.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0615par0570	No, I wonder why our song is so interesting to you. This is the song of the AK PARTY. Isn't the National Movement Party advertising the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0571	You can't mean anything by talking about your position. Now, first of all, everyone needs to know: Once you're called Turkish, you need to know what it means. Because Mr. Prime Minister, I put the nation under my feet. I mean later, a week later, I went to correct it, and I wanted to say, sir, I've come up with something that says, Now, if you've brought this out in the name of Turkishness, if you've uncovered it in political composition... In fact, I'll tell you what a dombra is: a dombra is a Nogay music and a girded reed. Thus, among Turks, it is a common tool in Turkish states. So...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0616par0573	Does this look like a full house to you?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0574	It's got nothing to do with tambur, nothing to do with tambur. The dombra is very different. Of course, because you don't know it, you mix it with a tambra because it's something else. I mean, for God's sake.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0617par0575	Hodja, bravo, congratulations.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0576	No, he asks if it's the same as Tambura.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0618par0577	How many strings, how many wires!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0619par0578	Teacher, the song is perfect after all. The squares will moan, the squares will moan, simple as that!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0579	Now, you can play the song, no matter what you say, the ritual is one's business.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0620par0581	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0613par0582	You'll hold them -- of course, clap your hands, please -- because you'll go with Barzani in Diyarbakır, Shivan Perver. Then you'll come and talk to them here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0621par0584	Yeah, yeah. They're our brothers.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0622par0585	Mr. President, he picked on me.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0586	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. Metiner's next. Just a second, I'll listen.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0624par0587	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0588	Mr. Elitaş, please sit down. Metiner is next, please...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0624par0589	Mr. President, Mr. Metiner will certainly give me his turn.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0590	I don't know, that's your business.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0624par0591	Mr. President, about the fact that I don't know the dombra...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0592	Please, Mr. Elitaş, have a seat.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0624par0593	Mr. President, please, look...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0594	But Metiner is next.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0624par0595	Mr. Metiner is giving me his turn.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0596	I'll listen to Mr. Metiner. Here you go, Mr. Metiner. No, what are you talking about? Mr. Metiner, I didn't promise, so if you'll excuse me, please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0599	You're inviting him to the stand.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0600	No, please, I didn't invite you to the stand. Sir, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0601	The speaker spoke of my name and charged me with the Kurdishist.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0623par0602	Here you go, now I promise you for two minutes for bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0606	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, I'm a Kurdish person, and I'm a man who thinks it's a practice of ignorance to brag about ethnicity. I am a citizen of the state of the Republic of Turkey. I'm a member of a party in this country that believes Kurds should have equal rights, just like the Turks. I'm a member of an understanding. Kurd, I curse Kurdishism. And if you're not racist, I call on you to curse Turkishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0626par0609	We don't curse Turkishism at all.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0610	Mr. Prime Minister says he's got ethnic nationalism at his feet, not nationalism. Turkish nationalism, yes, but we consider any ethnic nationalism to be a practice of ignorance, a curse.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0627par0611	You don't know the Prime Minister's speech, Metiner.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0612	The other thing is, aren't you the one who always says Turkish isn't a race name? Aren't you the one who said Turkish is a common adjective that surrounds everyone in this geography? Our vice president is not a race name. The twist of what he means by that means is that you are, to the bottom, racist, separatist.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0628par0613	Bravo.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0629par0614	We don't curse Turkishism at all. Bravo Metiner! I applaud you, bravo!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0615	That's where I say, damn racism, damn Kurds, Turkishism, but I also argue that everyone in this country should be equal in basic rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0629par0616	You'll look in the mirror, in the mirror. You look in the mirror, you look in the mirror.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0625par0617	Let that be a lesson to you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0630par0619	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0631par0620	Mr. Oğan, what did you want to say?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0632par0621	Mr. Group Deputy President: You are not an Iğdır MP, you do not know Iğdır. He has accused.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0631par0622	Here you go, Mr. Oğan. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0633par0625	What's the use of this style?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0634par0626	Now...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0633par0627	What's the use?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0634par0628	Shut the fuck up! Shut up! You keep talking, for God's sake. This is the bench, if you have a word, you come and talk here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0633par0629	What good is this style to you, MHP?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0635par0630	Mr. Turan, please. Rebooting, Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0632	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Deputy Director of the Group, are you not the Iğdir MP... who just listed some information he received from the governorship here? He says, "I am the Iğdır MP, and I am the Iğdır MP from where you can't get the MP out. (Applause from MHP rows) Ask where you don't work, where you work. One of the places where you opened in Iğdır is the Iğdır city forest. Do you know when the Iğdır city forest was founded? The trees are over there. The Prime Minister is opening it. The network project, a project that's been going on for years, a project that's been part-opening. Come and show me 5 meters of canal at Iğdır. 5 meters. We opened it, we did it. So that's not going to happen by opening up imaginary projects. Imaginary...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0637par0635	Airport?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0636	The airport's open, the workers' efforts...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0637par0637	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0638	We're on the right side of the line, fellas. I thank you for opening the airport. I wish, I wish...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0638par0639	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0639par0641	Sinan, the airport's foundation was laid at 96, at 96. I was in charge there, serving at 96.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0642	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0639par0643	You will never know, and you will never know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0645	Oh, wait a minute... there's an airport in Iğdur, but... friends, friends, wait a minute, there's an airport in Iğdur, but my citizen is still flying to Kars. Why? Your Minister of Transport forgot to wear the ILS device!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0640par0646	There's college, there's college, there's college in Iğdur. The dream came true.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0641par0647	They're ribbon makers!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0648	There's an airport, but the plane won't land, there's a summer airport, and set up a winter for it. So please let the citizen fly there in the winter. Let me tell you something else here. It's no one's place to call Turkishism, damn it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0642par0650	It's our right.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0651	(Turkish) is our common name.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0642par0652	You can't insult Kurds that much.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0653	Don't confuse Turkishism with separatism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0642par0654	You can't be racist in this House.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0655	It's not separatism you serve, it's turkishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0642par0656	Get over it.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0636par0657	We all share a common name, a common umbrella.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0643par0659	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0644par0660	He says, "Fuck racism."
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0643par0661	I will submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0645par0662	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0663	Now, first of all, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0643par0664	Sir?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0665	Now I have to make a statement here.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0643par0666	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0667	Now, of course, as a party, we consider everyone living in Turkey to be Turkish according to the Constitution. Being a Turk is not a matter of Turkishism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0647par0668	Mr. Hasip is looking too sideways!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0669	Turkicism is a different matter.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0648par0670	That's not what Sinan Bey says.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0649par0671	Please, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0672	He said the same thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0650par0673	Listen, listen, listen carefully and improve your history!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0674	Now, therefore, the person who cursed Turkishism actually meant to curse a nation.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0651par0675	Never, never, never. We curse racism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0646par0676	I mean, he's also doing it as a racist. Therefore, I curse this racism.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0651par0677	Never, never...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0652par0678	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0653par0685	That's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0652par0686	Those of you who don't agree, I'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient. Yes, there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 50 of your current legal proposals. We would like to change the expression of those who have exported to the terms of the article to those who deserve it to be changed. Levent Gök (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0654par0693	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0652par0694	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Levent Gök, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0655par0698	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. We will do justice in Turkey, we will increase respect for human rights, we will take democracy in Turkey to the most advanced level. The esteemed MPs of the ruling party who have claimed that if you listen to me for a moment or two, I would like to share with you an app that sums up the point that we have come to today very well, and deeply hurts me. Turkey has declared a state of emergency in Ankara, Ankara has declared martial law today. Please... Dear MPs, of course I know you're surprised, I know you'll be surprised, but I wonder how you'll interpret this: today, Ankara 10. The Criminal Court of Peace has made a very important decision. It has been decided that, at the request of Ankara Police, our citizens living in Ankara are now to be searched without a court order in Ankara, Çankaya, Altındağ, Goatören, Mamak, Yenimahalle and Pursaks. My dear friends, if you think Ankara has a population of 5 million people and over 3 million people live in these districts, and I would also like to share with you in court that a very important decision has been made concerning Ankara all of its members when private vehicles are entered into these districts. Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0656par0702	You're saying both the court and the lawless!
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0657par0703	Congressman, listen, please.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0658par0704	Can you tell me again who made that decision? Who took it, the government took it?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0705	The court has authorized the police to search for everyone who lives in these counties, regardless of the name of anyone here. Now, can that happen? My dear friends, I beg you, I hope not, but I'm afraid so. I wish it wasn't.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0660par0706	Bring the verdict, and we'll see. Do you have a decision?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0707	Look, you're surprised, too. You say, "No way." You say, "No way." It shouldn't be, it shouldn't be.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0660par0708	Mr. Levent, do you have a decision? Let's see if there's a decision.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0709	Minister, I think we'll have it tomorrow. So we followed him. Look, you're all out of sleep, you're all startled, aren't you? But if this decision was made in this way -- Mr. Minister objects there too -- of course we all have to stand up rightfully, we shouldn't accept such a thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0661par0711	You know it's true? If given...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0712	Look, my dear friends, if we've come to this point, if we've come to this point, this point shows that Turkey is at a very controversial point, a stage where Turkey is failing to say anything else about democracy, human rights. Today, as a matter of fact, the German Christian Union has demanded that Turkey's European negotiating process be stopped, my dear friends. Now, we have no right to go through this. I want to know the reason for this decision... how was it applied, why was it applied? And the date, my dear friends, until February 27th, has been authorized by the Ankara Police Department until February 27th. Now, if you'd like to investigate such an important event in our behalf, please. The ruling party is also tasked with protecting democracy, human rights and researching everyone living in Turkey. I present such a painting to your attention as a very grave painting.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0662par0716	The decision is wrong, and whoever made it is wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0717	Our friends express that this decision is wrong, and if it's decided... they say it's wrong. Yes, if it's decided, please let's face it, that's what I'm saying. I'd also like to point out that if the ruling party makes the same contribution in this matter, we'll be pleased. But...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0662par0718	That means you shouldn't trust the courts on everything.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0719	But a decision like this, please, let's all be followers and do what we have to do. This is a grave decision, an unacceptable decision, and it is not possible to defend it. If this has come to this point, it has really gone beyond a phase where Turkey's issues will be questioned.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0662par0720	Court decisions mean they can be questioned, they can be wrong.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0659par0721	Now, I understand how you feel about this, and I hope that tomorrow you will all see this decision and do what is necessary, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0663par0723	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0664par0725	The members of the government are here, won't the government have an explanation in the face of such a serious accusation, in the face of a claim?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0663par0726	But the decision isn't yet...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0664par0727	But there's a bet.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0663par0728	I listened to Mr. Sky...
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0664par0729	The government may say that there is no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0665par0730	Mr. President, we haven't seen this decision. That's what Mr. Sky is saying right now, no decision.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0664par0731	But the government says, "No. " Or it says, "I do, I don't know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0666par0732	He doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0664par0733	Is such a government to be silent in the face of such a claim?
tbmm-2014-02-19sit08spe0666par0734	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
