tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Kemalettin Aydın, a member of the Silver House MP who wants to talk about transport investments in the Silver House. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers will try to explain to you how much our town and village province, which has been neglected for many years, almost connected to Turkey, has benefited from transportation investments in the past decade, and not by 2023, but by development, development, and the commitment to the modern world. Road people, cities, countries, communities, nations are a monument to civilization that binds the minds, ideas, hearts of those communities and nations together on this occasion. In the last 12 years, 23 projects have been invested in nearly 3 quadrillion transports in our province. A total of 301km is the state road, 214km city road, with 100 per cent of state roads, with 23 projects asphalted by 91 per cent of the county roads, with a project cost of over 2 quadrillion projects, with transportation investments over 1 quadrillion, and with new projects planned for over 1.5 quadrillion new projects, the Silverhouse is able to connect rapidly to the region and from there to Turkey, and from there to the world. Our province, logistically speaking, is able to connect the eastern Black Sea with East Anatolia, and the south-eastern Anatolia, along the northern-south line, with several surrounding provinces, to Erzuruma, Erzincana, Bayburt, Giresun, and Tripoli. By 2002, a double mile road, the divided road road of our province, continues rapidly to work on the divided road, which is now projected close to 100 miles [100 km]. In particular, with the development and development of our Silverhouse in recent years, with the development and development of its university in the universal sense, there are many projects that are waiting for the transportation of the road, with the development of agriculture, rural development and other industrial sectors. In particular, the way of Shiran-Two: Hopefully this summer, Shiran MPs from other political parties are also waiting for the days when they will reach Shiran (Shiran) from Two. Today, project work has been launched at Pekun Tunnel, and the project will be tendered, hopefully, before the end of the year, to cross the 13km East Black Sea mountains. Right now, there's one thing that all my fellow MPs and all my brothers and sisters in Turkey need to know that all services of transportation within the Silver House are rapidly continuing. As stated in the 11-year work manual for our province, 4.5 quadrillion dollars have been spent in about 11 years, and 1.3 quadrillion have been spent to deliver it. The 12km circuit road we call the city freeway has been offered 500 trillion euros, and 50 per cent of the tunnels have been completed. One of our city's dream projects is the Erzincan-Silver-Trabzon Speed Train Project, which is part of 2023 vision projects, and the application project is in the tender phase. Again, in Köse Airport, where our province has been waiting for years, hopefully, this year, the engineers we've sent over to the study of study will move forward quickly. In short, the political opponents of the Silver House, which grew rapidly, all over the site, opposed us, and moved the mountains. With opposition, they can tell us about our work at the Silver House. As the Silverhouse moves on to 2023, it is a paradox for all political parties planning its 2023 vision to present the bread horizon to Turkey, with these investments, not for Turkey, but for modern, modern, modern, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. As Mustafa Ataturk said, I salute you with a wish for success and prosperity in the presidential process.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0004par0020	When you said bread, it occurred to me that there was a report card. What report card was that, Mayor?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0021	Mr. Kaçir, please...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0005par0022	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0023	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0005par0024	Mr. orator must have figured out that slogan as a loaf of bread. In that slogan, peace is bread, love is bread, peace is bread. I'd like to report to you and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0006par0027	That's what the roof candidate said.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0028	Congressmans, the House is open, we're processing. Please...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0006par0029	It's open, sir. Good luck.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0003par0030	The second unscheduled statement is from Adana MP Umit Özsümşmiş, who asked for a statement on the 2011 YGS test's cancellation and results. Here you go, Mr. Ozgimi.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0007par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I made a promise in 2011 about a question scandal at the New Year's Test for Higher Education, which was held in court. My heart would want -- five minutes -- if I had time to explain the changes in national education during the AKP administration, changes in the exam system, changes in test regulations, questions being stolen, questions being sold scandals, cancellation scandals, four recent problems being made in TEOG, and such scandals -- but not enough for an hour. Indeed, during this period, a national education has not been so persecuted since he became a student. Dear friends, in 2011, the Nationals of Higher Education exam is being held. When questions are published after the exam, Hülya and Mehmet Şahin, the owners of a regular classroom in Adana, the Pyramid School, sit in the evening and find out that the 7th question of mathematics is wrong. They're applying to the district administration court to call off that problem. With the state's reflex, the OSCE immediately argues that the problem is true and that the Pyramid School or its owners -- who have taken the test -- do not have the right to sue. He's going to court, the State says they have the right to sue. Ankara District Administration Court is appointing math professors at Hacettepe University as experts, and as a result, this year in April, the court decides that the 7th problem from the 2011 University of Higher Education Exam is wrong. Now, dear friends, there are a few important points, one of which says that if there are errors in the test code -- which is human -- then that wrong question will be judged as if all students have answered it correctly, and there will be no loss of rights. So, when the Pyramid School objects -- when the owners object -- if the OSYM doesn't object as a reflex, that day will be fine, but after three years, now, it becomes inextricable, and it concerns about 150 to 200,000 students. There is another issue, which is that there is the Science Council of the CSI. If you sit down in three hours, four hours, five hours, a day and a half to solve the question you want the kids to solve in a few minutes, it'll be fine. Another important point is, why do you ask children a question that the CSI Science Board can't solve, disagree, that Hacettepe University can't agree on, and that it takes three years to find the right answer? Why the cruelty? Now, we've got a couple of major problems here. One is: the correct answer to this question is, according to the court's decision, there are no options, but according to the OSYM, the choice (b) is correct. Many students who answered the question correctly but could not find it in the option failed to win the dam test of the University of Higher Education, and their year's work was wasted. Two: The boys who took the License Placement Exam failed to enter the parts they wanted because of the wrong question there, into different departments, different universities. Now, I'm inviting all the young people who took the YGS exam in 2011 to look for their rights, at least sue for compensation. After this scandal, in 2014, the SNS began not to reveal the test questions, and began to conceal them so much that they removed them from the Information Act, such as the state secret, but they couldn't stand the pressure, it now explains 20 percent of it. If it's a state secret, it's treason to reveal the secret of the state, then you're a 20 percent traitor if you explain 20 percent. In response to our MP's motion for questions, the CSI says these questions were not missed from the judiciary. Dear friends, if you don't publish the answers to the questions, then how will people check whether the answers are right or wrong? I invite all young men to seek rights and salute you with respect.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0008par0048	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Necati Özensoy, who wants to talk about drugs. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0009par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In recent years, I've taken this off-the-book conversation especially to draw your attention to increased drug use and distribution. I salute you all. Of course, I especially want to draw your attention to a drug that wasn't on the market three or four years ago. It's been spreading fast in our country and in the world lately, and everyone's looking for it. I want to talk about bonzai, a very dangerous drug, a one-time death risk. When used, the thought of sweating, the dry mouth, the heart attacks young people who use it, the thought of seeing them die, the thought of seeing them die, the thought of seeing them die, the thought of going anywhere else from the world, the fear, the thought of them dying, the thought of them dying. In particular, I think there are some really big problems with these events that have come to the attention of young people in a park after they used bonzai, which have resulted in the deaths of a few of our young people recently, and I think they need to improve their measures as soon as possible. About a year ago, on July 27th, I had a press conference with a complaint from citizens again. Again, we invited the authorities to serve, but since this is not enough to attract attention, in many parts of Turkey, especially in Bursa, this drug, unfortunately, is still being sold at a cheap price of $5. Of course, the citizen is showing his reactions again. See, once again, a young man named Recep Aslan asked the government to prevent the spread of drug use. Aslan said: "I am looking at the work, not the law. " They say, "We are looking at the action. If the AK PARTY is in power here, he'll do it, he won't sell it. Why is my friend dying? Why does my 21-year-old young friend come from the army and die? As far as they're concerned, they're about to... they're blocking the road, and the police will come and distribute it. Let him not scatter us, and let him go and scatter the streets of the drug deals. They cry out. Of course, we've given you a motion to ask questions about it. Özcan Beyin, I have questions, there are answers to them. Of course, that's not enough. There were motions for research on this, a research commission was set up last semester, but all of this didn't work out. Minister of Family Affairs, the age of drug use is very low. Be careful of the families. He says. In his statement, the age of the drug has also dropped to the nine. Now, when it comes to drug use, it's important to get the attention of families, but I really want to know just how you're going to get the power out of your hands, just to say, at an ordinary, ordinary press conference. Again, these last days, you know, authorities have also announced that the closures of this PKK have coincided with the point of importing drugs, planting, products. It was also found that the PKK and drug traffickers were co-operating there. Of course, this law, which is going to end with action from here, is going to work on who it's going to work on today, how it's going to be effective in dealing with this drug, or how it's going to increase the drug, or the law that's going to be passed today, and the PKK law of forgiveness is going to serve it again, and I'm going to give you all a lot of respect from here.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0010par0062	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a resignation from the parliamentary inquiry commission, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning from the membership of the Council of Investigation Commission (9/8) that I've been elected to. With all due respect, I do. It has been presented to your knowledge. (9/8) The main Parliamentary Investigation Commission has a thesis on the election of President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly (9/8) The main Parliamentary Investigation Commission was elected President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk on Wednesday (9/7/2014) at 16:00 p.m., and was elected President, Speaker and Clerk under Article 24 of the Interior Charter, with their names and last names written down as a result of the draft of 14 (14) ballots used. For your information. Yours truly. President: Hakkı Kışlı Kastamon MP 8 Vice President: Yilmaz Bronze Bart's MP 8 Speaker: Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu Bursa MP 8 Clerk: İlknur Eütöz Aksaray MP 8 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respectfully offer and offer the opening of a parliamentary investigation of our Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, 104 and 105, under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105, in an effort to investigate measures against the water problem in Turkey and the Aegean Region. 1) The Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 4) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 5) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[Scholarship]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Sakarya]] [[Ankara]] 20) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] Water is the most important natural resource that directly or indirectly affects the life of all living creatures on earth. Today, there is a shortage of water not only in Turkey's region, but also in the world scale, with population growth and global warming, water shortages are expected to reach much bigger in the coming years. According to World Health Organization figures, 1.6 million people lose their lives a year due to lack of clean and hygienic water. Water directly affects human life. In our country, water pollution and drought have a growing intensity of its presence, especially in the Aegean region. In the Aegean region, the point of water and quality is frightening during a period of very short period of time for human life, such as the last 30 years. In recent years, the decline in rain has been a sign of a potential disaster in the future. The real disaster, however, is that public opinion is insensitive to the issue. Much of the water in our region, which is really inadequate and is supposed to decrease due to global warming in the future, is contaminated. Pollution is largely caused by domestic and industrial waste. In the last 30 years, rapidly increasing pollution has only been monitored, state-sponsored, and watched. Even these days, when water pollution threatens my human life, nothing has changed. The subject is being passed on by words, and necessary sanctions against pollutants do not apply. Very serious work has been done by the Ministry of Environment, DSI and universities regarding pollution in small Menderes, Gediz and Copperchay basins, and proposals for solutions have been developed. In 1999 and 2008, the issue was discussed in the İzmir Water Conventions in detail by the TMMOB Izmir County Co-ordination Board. In addition, related engineering rooms have various studies and proposals for solutions. However, 30 years ago, rivers that weigh 20 kilograms of catfish, people can swim, are being used as open sewers today, and household and industrial waste are being dumped directly into the sea. The municipalities are having difficulty getting healthy water, serious problems with water pollution. Due to climate change related to global warming, rain and flow values are dwindling, droughts and floods are increasing. There is also a significant negative impact on water quality parameters as a result of drought. The decline of rain today has grown to significant proportions in subterranean and subterranean waters due to increased water use due to increasing population growth. Especially in Gediz, Little Menderes and Bakrchay basins, as of October 2008, most of the previous drilling wells were dried up. For example, in the Little Menderes basin, in Bags, the alluvial formation of the subterranean water tray fell below 60 metres and there was no more ground water in a large area. Thirty years ago, in these wells, the underground water tray was two feet deep and the well yield was 60 to 70 liters per second. Today, despite problems with drinking, using and supply of industrial water in the Aegean region, the main problem has been the agricultural sector where 72% of water is used. In the coming years, problems with drinking, using, and industrial water can be solved, although the cost is high. Today, however, danger belles ring in the agricultural sector, which is ignored by political power. Because of drought, the decline or halting of agricultural activity means hunger, unemployment and migration. This is not only for agriculture, but also for agriculture-based trade and industry. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The historical feature of Izmir's history, memory and identity must be revealed in detail as to how it should be used by the historical fabric of the Folkart Altay Alsancak Stadium, which is still in use as a stadium. With respect to the establishment of a research commission in accordance with the 98th Article of our Constitution and Articles 104 and 105 of the TBM Institution of the Constitution on how to use Izmirli, for what cultural purposes (such as concerts, sports matches, visuals and stage arts). [[İzmir]] 2) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Çanakkale]] 15) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 17) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 21) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 23) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Sakarya]] [[İzmir]] 27) Mehmet Emrehan Halici [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 33) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Army]] [[Edirne]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] International organisations such as the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO), the Council of International Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), the Council of Europe and the European Union have been working for the cultural heritage of modern architecture since 1970. The concept of protection is defined as understanding the cultural heritage defined by monuments, structure groups and site, and all the methods used for promoting, restoration and development, even if necessary. The definition of cultural presence expanded at the end of the 20th century by the coming of the legacy of modern architecture. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe is encouraged that new use of today's life should not be contradicted by its architecture and historical significance in order to prevent the destruction of structures in order to prevent the use of the legacy in the Protection of the 20th Century Architecture of R (1991). The products of modern heritage include individual structures, sites, neighborhoods, and additional structures. In our country, the concept of protection and restoration is based on the Venice Charter. The High Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings has a principled decision to take necessary measures to prevent the destruction of republican-era structures. The bibliographical study of ICOMOS on sports and Heritage also includes research on the preservation and development of 20th-century sports structures. In our country, sports structures built in the 20th century are part of cultural heritage. One of them is Panionios, also known as the Folkart Altay Alsancak Stadium, which is located in the rear port area of Izmir and is important in the city's memory and multicultural past. The stadium is located in the Smyrna (Izmir) settlements, which have been established twice in history. The first is the Archaic Period Smyrna, which is now located within the Bayral District borders and is founded in Flag Höyük. The second is the Ancient Smyrna, founded on their backs. The history of the stadium is shaped in the region between Alsancak Station and the Winery, known as the Dar tree in Izmir. At the end of the Greek occupation, one of the first troops to enter Izmir was ambushed here and many were killed. The name of the region was changed to martyrs in 1925 to preserve the memory of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives for Izmir's salvation. The capacity of Folkart Altay Alsancak Stadium today is 15,358. In this regard, it is ranked 20th in Turkey and 2nd in Izmir; it is listed in the world stadiums. Alsancak Stadium is protected in the İzmir New City Centre's Nazim Development Plan, which was approved on July 7, 2003, and was approved by decision 05/82. The port behind the stadium is home to industrial heritage structures. In 1998, 53 structures consisting of industrial complexes, factories, warehouses and dwellings in the Port rear area were protected by the Board of the Protection of Culture and Nature of Izmir 1 Council. One of them, the Izmir historical gas factory, was restored by İzmir Metropolitan Municipality to serve Izmirli. Stat is one of the four tetken districts of Konak district, 400,000 inhabitants, with an earthquake-threatening risk, located in the region of Izmir. In this regard, the status area is a safe place for the people of Konak to take refuge after a possible earthquake. This feature is also applied in scientific articles. Besides, in Izmir, where there is congested construction, there is a need to be research on how to assess the situation in the open space where the urban air is breathing. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions of Bozcaada and Gökceada, which are geopolitically important to our country, we propose that a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] The Treaty of Lausanne, located within the borders of our province of Çanakkale, and linked to the Republic of Turkey on September 22, 1923, has an area of 285.5 square kilometers, and a length of 95km. The population is 8.210 for today. It has a population of 20 to 25 thousand in the summer and tourism season. There are about 1,500 hectares of farmable land, 1,900 hectares of vineyard, 4,000 hectares of mera, 8,000 hectares of forest on the island. A total of 20,000 hectares are mixed. Unusable land is 30 per cent, and according to this, the useable land in Gökceada is far above the Turkish average. There are five ponds on the island, and in terms of water resources, it is the richest island in the Aegean. Another island town in Çanakkale Province, Bozcaada, has a face measurement of 42 square kilometers around the island, along with large small islands, and is located northeast of the Aegean Sea. The resident population is 2,472, serving a population of 10,12,000 during the summer, when domestic tourism flourishes. These two men are primarily provided from Çanakkale, Eceabat's Port of Kabatepe, and Eskiine Deer Pier. The problems of people living on these two islands cannot be separated from the general problems Turkey faces. The people who live on this island are also experiencing Turkey's significant problems. Plus, they're having their own problems on the island. A structure of Turkish and Greek population is now in Gökçeada. The Greek population has rapidly decreased, and for today, about 250 or 300 Greek citizens have remained on the island. We also have around 9,000 Turkish citizens. These are citizens who have been displaced from various parts of the mainland, from various infrastructure projects, from their villages, from their cities, and from their citizens in Gökçeada. Given that island life is a culture, and living on the island requires a different culture, our people here are suffering very special challenges, even for this reason alone. Because living on the island brings with it separate psychological, sociological and economic difficulties. The two strategic islands of our country, Gökçaada and Bozcaada, need to open a parliamentary investigation to ensure economic and social development and to determine the problems of our living citizens and find solutions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of the Parliament, the 19th Amendment of the National Movement Party Group... Mr. President, I have a request. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0011par0314	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to present a matter in Parliament to the esteemed MPs representing the sovereignty of the Turkish nation. The presidential election process has begun. The honorable MPs have put up a candidate of their own free will. To date, presidents have been elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The presidents elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have fulfilled their duties under the Constitution. While the presidents who carried out these tasks are in accordance with their constitutional authority, unfortunately, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has insulted the presidents elected by our nation by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who have been used by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Çankaya, and on the island. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, lawmakers have not sent the previous President or the previous President to the press. I condemn this mindset that despises the will of the MPs in such a way that they despise the will of the nation. The second issue is: The mentality, which has so far seen the presidential elections as a source of custody, shows that sovereignty belongs to an unconditional, unconditional nation and represents by parliament as a source of custody. The MPs here represent the sovereignty of the nation only, not by taking orders from somewhere. Therefore, I condemn Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's statement as an MP, who described the Turkish Parliament and MPs as the source of custody. I urge Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to respect and respect and respect the Turkish Parliament, lawmakers and our nation, who elected these presidents so far. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0012par0318	Mr. Engin Altay, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0013par0320	Mr. President, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I don't understand the government's insensitive attitude towards 48 people, including our Consul, who were held hostage by the raid of our Musul consulate. Mr. President, members of parliament, the Musul consulate is considered our territory within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. A terrorist organization -- which the government can't call this terrorist organization -- is calling it a terrorist organization, but I demand that the government inform the General Assembly immediately of the fate of 48 of our citizens, members of the consulate, who have been taken hostage by it. On this occasion, regarding the matter mentioned by Mr. Vural, we desire that the presidential elections be passed in a kind manner, both as Parliament and as the nation. I wish and wish for the presidential election to remain sound and level-breaking, for the time being. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0014par0324	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0015par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have been facing a serious and comprehensive global and regional attack on the will of the people of Rojava, especially the Kurdish people. Finally, with the support of some regional and global forces in Iraq and Mosul, ISIS gangs have concentrated their attacks today in Kobani, and in Rojava. In both Kobani (Kobani) and other parts of Rojava (Isil) there are massacre attempts by the ISIS gangs to undermine human dignity, and the political and military will of the peoples there is an honorable, great resistance that will go down in history. Regarding the attacks in Rojava, there are reports of documents and data that show that Turkey still supports ISIS gangs. In particular, the fact that Turkey's borders are open to these gangs, the fact that the border crossings in Rojava and Kobani are still closed to Kurds and to the peoples in Rojava, and that the government of Turkey has not given any explanation on the matter that will satisfy the question marks, raises our concerns every day. We think this situation is unacceptable as the People's Democratic Party. Yesterday in Suruç, an actual agenda was set up under the leadership of our elected deputies and under the leadership of our mayors. With mass support, we'll have a democratic response to the people of Rojava in the coming days, and we'll make it clear that we're with the people of Rojava. Here we warn the government of this, that until now, more than ever, the Kurds should not win the rights, the peoples in Rojava have developed this foreign policy on the basis of drowning their will, Turkey should immediately give up its support for these gangs, not only for humanitarian aid, but also for all trade relations at the border. We say from the Foreign Minister and the government that we expect a statement from the People's Democratic Party to shed light on the public as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0016par0332	Thank you. Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0017par0335	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as you know, we have entered the presidential election process. For the first time in our home, a president will be elected by the people's votes. We have worked with the presidents following the coups; we have worked with the presidents who have seriously damaged the economic level and budget of the people in the Republic of Turkey by launching the constitutional pamphlet; we have worked with the presidents who have rejected every decision from the administration, from the administration, from the conduct, from all kinds of laws, from their own will, and from the way society would not accept them. Hopefully, after today, we'll be working with a president elected by the people's votes. In this election process, I have foreseen that we be respectful, dear, and of course careful, and that we should have a good time. I also condemn Israel's attacks on innocent civilians, violence, and violence in these days when we understand Ramadan. We follow various images and events on social media and media, and it's almost as if our hearts are breaking. I'm calling for immediate termination and termination of these attacks. Once again, I say out loud that we will be with the oppressed Palestinian people, as we were yesterday. I invite all domestic and international agencies to react and act on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0018par0340	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0019par0341	Why don't you take a seat next to the Turkmen?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0018par0342	Congressmans, I felt the need to say something.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0019par0343	Mr. President, can I have a word?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0018par0344	No, I'm not going to promise, I've only promised to the members of the group. Congressmans, especially the members of the group's deputy presidents, as you know, I've given my parliamentary administration the unlimited power of speech to the members of the group, and I haven't always done that, and I haven't limited it to time. But there were friends who weren't here today after the extracurricular talk was over. I'll ask you again -- specifically -- to be here on time and assist me in implementing the system in front of me, especially this one. Because I can't open a conversation about the procedure because of the delays. I'd like you to pay particular attention to this. Thank you. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday (July 10, 2014), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz and his friends, who we gave the presidency of TBM by July 12, 2013 and 16289 TBM, were recommended to conduct their talks on Thursday 10/07/2014 (now) in order to investigate the problems of cherry production and producers in our country, to determine the measures that need to be taken, and to address the legal arrangements for them. In favour of the group's proposal, the first speaker is Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0020par0363	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in our country to investigate the problems of cherry production and its producers and to address the necessary legal arrangements and to address them as the National Party of Action. I salute your high council. After a cherry tree plant has been planted, the esteemed lawmakers begin to give economic fruit after nearly eight to ten years of care. The most intense harvest period in our country is in June and July, with a variety of growth and locality. In many parts of our country, the cherry, which is native to Asia Minor, Caucasus, can be raised smoothly. In many of our provinces, such as İzmir, Çanakkale, Bursa, Yalova, Isparta, Afyon, Niğde, Malatya, Karaman, Tokat, Erzincan, Artvin. Cherry is also an agricultural product with serious problems while decorating our table as seasonal fruit. Unfortunately, it can't be dried like cherries, cherries and apricots, and it can't be stored like apples and citrus. That's why cherry time passes so quickly. It is quickly and severely affected by climate conditions during production and harvest time. For example, this year, our cherry has been seriously damaged by the frosting on flower time and the hailing during harvest time. The rain that rained during the harvest caused cracks and infections, so its quality was negatively affected. On the other hand, at this kind of damage, at the insurance point, TARSIM has practically persecuted the cherry maker, and it's more difficult to get insurance from a camel than to get a ditch for the frost and full damage. And this year in the cherry, young people who couldn't pay, who didn't get what they were owed, put off their weddings for the next cherry. Although the recollet is low, the sales price, originally 4-5 liras, has dropped to 2-2.5 liras this year. These prices are far from even affordable, valuable lawmakers. You can't miss that it's sold at large markets for 8 to 10 TL. So the cherry from the manufacturer's hand to 2-3 lira comes to our table from 8 to 10 TL. The profits go into the pockets of whom, by the handwork, by the eye shine, by whom the sweat is exploited, by your appreciation. Our cherry exports are directly affecting prices. We have a serious cherry export. However, in the domestic market, because of the surplus supply -- because of the low quality of cherries -- is unfortunately at the point of satisfaction. Our manufacturer is unable to market at least half of the cherry that he grows, and because it does not save the cost, it sometimes leaves it uncoupled. The height of the input costs and the marketing problems have put our farmers out of their misery, valued lawmakers. Dear lawmakers, the 1 kilogram of cherries, which was $4.5 euros in 2002, dropped to 2.5 lira today due to export shortages. So in 2002, when we sell 1 kilogram of cherries, our manufacturer can buy 3 liters of diesel, and today he has to sell 2 kilos of cherries to buy 1 litre of diesel. You know, where are you going? I want to express your appreciation for your literature. In mazotta, the most important entry of the agricultural manufacturer, is the situation different in other agricultural inputs, medicines, fertilizers, seeds, seedlings, seedlings, bait, agricultural irrigation? No, it's no different, my dear brothers. The result of wronged agricultural policies is our producer, who's almost amazed at the lack of a year's work and effort. Dear MPs, there is a fire in the farmer's field, in his garden, in his greenhouse, in his barn, in his henhouse. Who set this fire, why did he raise it, how did he raise it? Let's put aside the interrogation and put out the fire with the hand-in-arms first, or if this fire covers the entire country, if the farmer stops producing it, if the stables collapse, we'll have problems that can't be undone. The problems of the cherry maker are no different from the problems of the other fruit vegetable makers, the greenhouse, our farmers who produce livestock and milk. Production entries are very expensive, valuable lawmakers. So, unfortunately, we can't compete when we're selling our products on the outside markets. For years, our farmers have been moaning in interest, bank, prison, foreclosure, mortgage, debt clamps. Let's get our farmer's tractor out of the foreclosure; his field, his garden, his barn. Let's restructure your debt to Agriculture, Agriculture Bank, with interest, with its main money. Let's remove the EV and VAT and VAT in the electricity used in agriculture's important inputs: medicine, medicine, fertilizer, seed, seed, seedling, seedling, seedling, seedling, plant, feed and agricultural irrigation, and give our farmer a breath of life. Because the problems are increasing day by day, almost day by day. In Harran, in Çukurova, in the Aegean, the barley and wheat harvest is finished. Soon, barley and wheat crops will begin in Central Anatolia, but still no wheat base prices have been announced. Our manufacturer, our farmer, was almost strangled by a merchant. Dear lawmakers, if the wrong choices continue like this, there will be a serious tightening at the Festival of Sacrifice. If you don't take precautions now -- which seems to be a little bit late in taking precautions -- our country may unfortunately be condemned to import sacrifice. Dear lawmakers, there is an understanding that the season of Kiraz is swift. You can consume it in a very short period. The problem with the cherry is also the problem with the apricot, the problem with the olive producer, the problem with the citrus manufacturer, the problem with the apple, the pear maker, the sugar beets, the potato, the tomato maker. These problems continue to grow like a mountain, like a snowball. We didn't just express problems from this bench. Every time we spoke, we shared the solution proposals from our point of view, not as a need for our responsible and leveled opposition, our political understanding, as we were expressing the problems of our producer, our farmer, our feeder. Our manufacturer moans, and a fire falls on his stove, and we share it all the time. We've just been talking about your problems, and I'm saying it over and over again. Because the deaf sultan in Egypt has heard of these problems and their proposals for solutions, but we can't, unfortunately, tell the ruling MPs and government officials and the Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, and we can't. The reconstruction of any debt to remove the manufacturer from the ICU tent in particular is crucial to the use of its field, its tractor. I'm not talking about anything else. Whatever the writer's pen is, the manufacturer's tractor is his field. On the other hand, agricultural input costs should be subsidized, as in other countries that we've modeled agriculturally, and our farmer should be brought to a level where he can relax, breathe, maintain agricultural production immediately. To that end, we have continued to be the voice of the farmer, and we will continue to be the voice of the farmer. The cherry here is just a symbolic product, and our farmer is really miserable. We're looking forward to your support for our proposal on the cherry issue and our proposal for the opening of a parliamentary investigation. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0021par0381	Thank you. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, MP of Adıyaman, is the first speaker of the National Movement Party's proposal against the group.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0022par0384	Mr. President, I have made a commitment against the MHP group proposal. I salute you. The agricultural sector is one of the most important sectors of the 21st century. When you think about the growing population in the world, given global warming, we realize how important the agricultural sector really is, given the growing consumer demands, the diversified consumer demands. We are aware of how important agriculture is for our country's food security; for our citizens to feed on clean, healthy and affordable costs; for jobs, exports, prosperity; for our population in rural areas; and for those areas, the agriculture sector is important. Thus, with the support of agriculture, with the work done during the EC PARTI administrations, our agricultural economic-sized country has risen to the first place in the world, the 7th and the European Union. Our agricultural GDP has increased from $23 billion to $62 billion, up to 3 times that. Our exports in agricultural products went from $4 billion to $18 billion. The raw materials that agriculture uses, agricultural raw materials, including rubbers used in the industry, Turkey is a net agricultural exporter. In 2002, 1.480 agricultural products were exported to 161 countries, while 1.681 agricultural products were exported to 192 countries in 2013. Turkey is a net exporter in the foreign trade of food materials. Over the course of ten years, agricultural food materials have become 43 billion dollars in our excess foreign trade. That, of course, has happened with support. In 2013, an agricultural support payment of $8 billion 750 million will be paid close to $10 billion in 2014, hopefully. What do these supports bring? It's bringing in production increases. There are significant increases in Turkey's total production of grain in 2013. As we look at the ten-year period, the increase in total grain production is as follows: in 2013, the wheat breaks the record of the republic's history with a production of 22 million tons. Egypt has a record increase of 5.9 million tons, 900,000 tons in tics. Sunflowers produce 1.5 million tons, making the most important record in the history of the Republic. Total fruit production has increased from 13 million tons to 18 million tons in ten years, with a 35 per cent increase. The total production of vegetables has a rise from 25 million tons to 28.5 million tons. Here are the additional supports that were launched during the AK PARTY administrations, there are supports that haven't been given before. These supports support efficiency during the EC PARTY period, efficiency, efficiency, production. In 2014, 63 pens were supported, and in 2002, the support was unfortunately appreciated by 10 pens. No doubt these have affected our farmer's production power at both a positive level and a significant contribution to Turkey's national income, its industry. The simplest thing is, farmers use agricultural loans all over the world. In 2002, our farmers used $530m in loans, while the Agriculture Bank used an agricultural loan total of 17 billion euros in 2013; in 2002, the return rate to the Agriculture Bank was 38 per cent, while in 2013 there was an increase in 98 per cent. Yeah, cherry manufacturers have problems, we have support for our manufacturers, we have work done. Do we see enough of this? No, we don't see enough. We're number 1 in the world's production of cherries. There's an increase in 764 thousand per square inch as a field, and there's a surplus in production per square inch, and there's a surplus in product change. It gained 908 kilograms from the decard, while in 2013 it increased to 1 ton of 147 kilograms. These are part of increased growths with certified plant support, diesel, fertilizer, soil analysis support, organic agriculture, good agricultural support. Support of rural development investments, 50% of machinery, equipment grants are given to all our farmers in this region as well. Low interest agricultural loans are also available in these areas. That's right, because of the hail and the frostbite, our farmers, our fruit and vegetable producers in many areas are having a problem. Both studies in the field of TARSEM continue, as well as studies on the postponement of our farmers' loans, which continue, and the necessary work has already been done. But it's also a good thing to share: yes, we support our farmer all the time, we're always with our producer, but we need to know that those who remove fertilizer support in 2001, should be given price support to the Earth crop office in 2001, those who remove farmers' support for prices, plus those who remove the decision to lend to needy farmers who suffer disaster, yes, what they did during the AK PARTI rule should also be met. We have our work done, but I'm saying there's more work to be done, there's more to be done, there's more to be done, there's more to be done, there's more to be done. On this occasion, I salute you with love again, saying that we are always there for our farmer.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0023par0394	Thank you. Second speaker in favor of the National Movement Party Group proposal...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0024par0396	Mr. Orator has given false information, sir. Especially...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0025par0397	He read the usual story.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0024par0398	He's read the usual story.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0399	I'm not listening to you, I'm listening to Mr. Yilmaz. So please don't interfere.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0025par0400	Why aren't you listening?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0401	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0027par0402	You made a trade with the farmer.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0403	Mr. Yilmaz, you have requested a statement.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0028par0404	Mr. Hajji has given false information, stated that the supports were cut in the previous administration period or 2002, which was misinformation, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0029par0405	It's the bullying, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0406	It's not a tease. If you'd like to explain your position, get into the microphone from your position.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0028par0407	Sir, let me put it this way.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0029par0408	Sir, he's been taunting the government about what they've done before. As a party before the government, we would like a word on this bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0409	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0028par0410	Okay, thanks.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0411	From now on, I don't think I'm going to show any sensitivity to the group's vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0030par0412	Sir, if you read Article 69...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0026par0413	One day we'll read it together and you'll tell me about it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0031par0417	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, during the 57th Republic government, our farmer had a bit of a holiday. In 2002, your first act was to shut down the Institute for Research on Animal Diseases in Manisa. After that, you've had trouble dealing with the diseases that have taken place in our country. With direct income support from 2002, our farmer spent almost three and a half years in a holiday mood, but it is true that in your time, support for the snowhead has been removed. Per fertilizer, or feeders, calf supports, artificial seedling supports, certified plant supports were created during the 57th Republic government, and unfortunately, you brought these supports to the top of the camel. You're trying to give them all to them under the name or under different benefits, as fertilizer support, but unfortunately our farmer is miserable, regretting producing what he's producing. At the price of diesel in 2002, the current price of diesel is far from paying the amount of fertilizer in 2002, when we compare drug prices and current product prices, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the MP here has made a statement of the previous oratoric truth. Because if the support in 2002 had continued, our producer, who would receive $36,000 per decar, under the name of direct income support, was condemned today only for diesel support, and he could not afford road money. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0032par0425	In favour of the party's proposal for nationalist movement, the second speaker is Mr. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0033par0428	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to investigate the problems of cherry production and producers in our country, to determine the measures that need to be taken, and to discuss the parliamentary research proposal for the legal arrangements to be taken on them. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, in our country, the production of cherries is around 400,000 tonnes, which is about 40,000 tonnes of this, 10 per cent of it is produced in our Sultandağı district and in our province of Tea, Sultandakü is busy. It's not as much as it is in our region, but in other parts of our province of Afyonkarahisar, it's made of cherries. Cherry is a fruit that is eaten with pleasure, but its production and marketing is a highly problematic product. The cherry tree yields eight to ten years after its plant. The manufacturer, who will look at the tree for ten years, will continue to do exactly what it is doing for ten years, so it will care for the field, water the tree, fertilize the tree, and at the end of the decade, start to buy products, and will make huge expenses to this point. Cherry costs a lot of money. Fertilizer, medicine, irrigation, labor, electricity prices don't pay much for cherries every day. To illustrate a small example, the 26-caliber cherry -- 12 years ago -- is around $3 today in 2002, between $4 and $5. The manufacturer's marketing of such an expensive and demanding product is another problem, another problem. The manufacturer collects the cherry from the tree -- on a tray -- on a single caliber and color -- on a tray, on a tray, on a container, loading it into his vehicle, putting the cherry in front of the buyer in the cash register. Let's say the average price of the cherry is $4, and if there is, the appraiser will find an excuse for its color or its shape, and he will write it for $3. It's what the buyer says, he knows there's no chance of a farmer waiting for tomorrow because cherry is a fast-breaking product. The buyer buys the product, delivers it to other cities, where jobs are exported through the company, which means that because there is no customs at Afyonkarahisar, our producer's taxes, the added value of the cherry is written in the households of other provinces, and it does not allow new jobs to be created because it is processed in other cities. The region that produces cherries cannot find sufficient and necessary support from the state while it strives to address its problems with its own efforts. Although manufacturers try to organize with co-ops and do things through them, the government's view of co-ops is a barrier to finding solutions. For this purpose, the cherry producers of the Afyonkarahisar have come together to solve their problems in Sultandağı Municipality, Yeşilçiftlik, Derekçek, Deresek, Eber, Tikkuyu, Karapınar municipalities; Akbaba, Çamözı, Taşköpö, Doğancık, Gölçıer, Uupınar, Yeniköy, Sarajevoköy, Değermenköy. In Sultandakü district, under the initiatives of our mayor Osman Acar. The Kiraz Brand Building Project, Sultandakü's cherry was branded and released to world markets under the name Tadiki. I would like to thank Afyon Governorate, Sultandağı University of applied sciences members, Sultanadağı Kaymakuna, Afyonkarahisar County Food Agriculture and Petting Directorate, Sultandağı Food Agriculture and Animal Development Directorate who have taken over the project. Dear lawmakers, the Republican People's Party Group's Council's Charter, November 3, 2010 and (10/903), was an important motion to express our party's sensitivity in the same matters, but in 2010, our motion to investigate the problems and solutions of the cherry manufacturers was rejected. The motion has been denied, but the problems with the cherry makers continue. Fertilizer prices, diesel, labor, medicine, agricultural irrigation, electricity costs, very expensive. Many water wells have now been shut down in our region because agricultural irrigation electricity costs have not been paid. The manufacturer was abandoned at the mercy of the buyer at the buying centers and his initiative. Since there are no customs in Afyonkarahisar, exports are made from other provinces, processing in other provinces. The manufacturer wants the price of input to be reduced, the interest of electricity debt to be expunged, and the price to be reduced by the ease of payment. The manufacturer also wants to give the exporter the incentive to be given to the producer, and since there has been a serious reduction in the quality amount of products due to the negative conditions of the season, since there has been a severe reduction in the amount of goods, the manufacturer wants to see the interest of the loans expunged and delayed. Dear friends, I know this motion for research will be rejected because it was rejected in 2010. Despite the rejection of the motion, I'd like to convey to you the invitation of our Sultandağı Mayor Osman Acar. To make it possible for him to invest in cherry processing, wrapping, going forward, at least in this area, so that if those who wish to invest in the problem that the government is insensitive to, I'd like to say that they will have considerable ease in the Sultandağı. As my dear friend Kemalettin Yilmaz has just pointed out, it's not really the problem of cherries, it's just the problem of Afyon. Cherry is a big problem because it's the season's problem, and we have other problems. Now, I'm getting out of Ankara, and by the time I get to Afyon, the Plains of Emirdağ, the Plains of Bayat, and the Plains of Poland are now under 50 percent of the grain production this year because of the drought. This land is waterless, and there's a very serious recession in this land, and if the farmer works it, his product will not grow. Other than that, we have the same problems in other places. For example, in potatoes, the potato maker earns a year, and in the second year, the potato maker's first year's salary goes away, and so does his home tractor, his field. It's a beet manufacturer in the Afyon region. Last year, I walked around the beet cantars, dozens of tractors lined up, one machine working to deliver the beets, a machine malfunctioning but waiting for dozens of tractors, you've invaded the road. There's no way that the tractor owner can leave, but there's no fountain, not even a toilet! I mean, we're the seventh largest agricultural country in the world! Last year he imported hay, Turkey, the world's 7th largest agricultural country! Dear friends, being big isn't about giving numbers: this is our export. That's all it was during the Republic, that's all. No, that's all it was during the republic, that's all. Those people dug those tunnels and shoveled them while the railways were being built during the Republic. You now build the railroad with the big machines that were carved for years then in one day, and you can process the land that was plowed that day, the land that was built in a year, with a tractor in one day. Stop making deductions by comparing it to the republic or something. The farmer has a problem, the peasant has a problem, what do you say about this problem? The citizen in the sultan's house is miserable now, and the quality of the cherry has fallen due to the rain. It says: I can't pay my debts, I can't pay my electricity, the wells are closed; find a solution. Forgive the interest, delay my loan, delay my debt. Last year, you banned an animal transfer from the Anatolian side to the European side. Waiting this year in Afyon, the victim's maker: are you going to ban it this year, or are we not going to send our victim to the other side? So will we not be able to send our animal, our property, for sacrifice, or sell it? Answer me this. No, the animal manufacturer has increased so much, so much foreign currency, and it's gone so far... it doesn't solve the problem. There's a problem in the middle, and this problem is waiting for a solution, dear friends, or else your export numbers, your budget numbers, are not very interested in the citizens. I hereby salute the High Council with my compliments.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0034par0444	Thank you. Mr. Recep Special, Isparta MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0035par0448	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge from the National Movement Party on the commission's motion to investigate the problems of the cherry manufacturers. Of course, cherry is a food that's really delicious, and it's known to everyone how useful it is to the human body to contain minerals and vitamins.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0036par0451	14 of them replace 1 aspirin.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0035par0452	Yeah, we're having a problem with the cherry this year, and the main reason we're having this problem is because the frost incident happened before the flower and because the frost incident was before the flower, which is because it wasn't covered by insurance, is that the manufacturers didn't get paid under TARSIM. There's talks going on with Tarsim and the Ministry. There are also instructions from the Ministry for the removal of the frost before the flower, whether it will be covered or not. The name Kiraz comes to mind in the world and Turkey, the Uluborlu district of Isparta, a brand of cherries. Indeed, the cherry raised in Ulborian is a world-renowned brand that is all exported abroad. Turkey produces approximately 495 thousand tonnes of cherries; close to 10 percent of it is produced in Isparta (Isparta); the largest crop ranking comes from Konya, Izmir and Isparta. Ben, the problems with the cherry maker... how does more money get into the cherry manufacturer's pocket? We all know that the harvest season has grown from the last 90 days to the last of its studies to the diversification of products due to the quality of the sapling. If we can encourage cherry production on the yala conditions, it's clear that those who make cherries in the middle of August, who usually take the money out first or last, or take it out in June, or produce cherries in the middle of August, don't earn much in the middle of the season. But if we extend the harvest season, if we extend the day, if any work can be done in that direction, the cherry maker can get more money in his pocket. Our work on this in the Isparta region began to bear fruit in our efforts to see how we could increase the production of this cherry on foot, and a lot of money began to enter into the manufacturer's pocket from the cherry production of the soil. Now, nobody wants the panties, nobody wants the nut job. And this year it's the wind. So the manufacturer suffered a serious loss. After recent developments, work continues at the point where this fracture is covered by insurance. Hopefully... they make what's called our manufacturer, our peasant, really sweat. Let me make a correction here, where the cherry yields in ten years. Cherry can begin to produce commercially in its fourth year. In the past, in its second year, the cherry, which can bear fruit in ten years with old types of saplings, gives food in its third year, and in its fourth year, gives commercially. Now, the speaker of the MPP said here that for three and a half years our peasant, our farmer, lived in the holiday spirit. Now, if I say anything about that, you're gonna come in here and get some answers because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0037par0458	You've already picked on me.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0035par0459	I'll, look, I'll tell you what, without teasing you, we lived in the holiday mood, and why did you stay at the dam in 2002?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0037par0461	He's your only consolation.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0035par0462	I say we're always with the cherry maker, the peasant, the farmer. Of course, the problem is, it's a rose, not a painter's cube, it's not like the problem's solved all of a sudden.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0037par0463	The villagers are listening. They'll send you with the imam, with the imam...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0035par0464	There are problems in every period, but there is a power that is sensitive to problems. We're being sensitive to the problems of our entire village, our farmer. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0038par0467	Thank you. I'm going to put the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0039par0469	Sir, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0038par0470	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0039par0471	We've given up.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0038par0472	Okay. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. (9/8) We will choose the open membership of the main Parliamentary Investigation Commission. I'm reading the names of the candidates the Republican People's Party has shown as three times as many for one membership: (9/8) İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan (9/8) replaces the main Parliamentary Investigation Commission member A list of members reported by the Republican People's Party: [[3]] Let's do this bag backwards. Shake it off like this. We're more experienced than yesterday. Omar Suha Aldan, Mudla. Emir Bridge, Tekirdağ. Ercan Cengiz, İstanbul. (9/8) İstanbul MP Ercan Genghis has been elected to be the main member of Parliamentary Investigation Commission.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0040par0490	Mr. President, doesn't this Commission have any other names? So it's 9/8? (17/25) We'd better do it.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit01spe0038par0491	Mr. Vural, I have a favor to ask of you, and I'd like to make a point that I've been listening to you for two days. Of course, you do not want Bill 629 to be legalized. You might have a different opinion. You can say whatever you want on the microphone, no insults. You're against the law. You've been saying your thoughts here for two days, but please, let's take advantage of the gaps of the Civil Code, using the gaps of the Civil Code, as you call it, and act in accordance with the Supreme Assembly, the Veteran Assembly, the Grand Assembly. Thank you very much. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 115th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0003	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0004	Sir, in your statement regarding a commission membership before closing this session, you have read the name of a commission called,9/8), and I've told you why the name of this commission has not been read.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0005	I think you might have said "17/25."
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0006	Yeah, I can tell you, it's none of your business. It's not the answer, it's the office of the government.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0007	Yeah, I already did that because I ran it.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0008	You're not directing, you're talking. Secondly...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0010	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0011	It's not the office to judge a party group's position to oppose this bill or to oppose it.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0038par0012	You want to start a formal debate?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0013	Sir, wait a minute... Look, you're still out of courtesy. I answer with kindness, I give you my request.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0042par0016	There's no need to stretch the coven so much in Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0043par0017	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0018	I invite you to be kind. I haven't expressed my request yet. I'm saying that your attitude, a group of people... what does it matter to you? What's it to you? Sir, from the gaps of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0042par0019	You're just gonna have to find an excuse to make a scene.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0020	You are obliged to enforce the Civil Code, and what business is it of yours? What void? I exercise my right from the Civil Code. You have no right to comment on this. I invite you to comply with the Civil Code and to treat MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the party groups with kindness.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0044par0021	That's it? Is it over?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0041par0022	Yes, I invite you to be kind.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0044par0023	Thank you. Congressmans, from time to time in the House, all of us, including myself, make witty remarks, perhaps even witty ones. Beyond that, as acting president, I and my friends of the Court have a responsibility to implement the Civil Code, to do what needs to be done on the agenda in a certain spirit of work. All of us, the Court, and you, the lawmakers, need to pay attention to these issues. Like I said, we're not supposed to make our jokes -- instead, in time -- in a way that helps your work morale. I just reminded you of that. I'm trying to apply the Civil Code. And I know I've been kind. I believe that, too. And thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0045par0026	It's not the authority to locate lawmakers. Look, before that, the AKP Group Deputy came late, so you said, "Come on in." You said, "I object to it."
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0044par0027	On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will proceed from where we left off to talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Constitutional Commission's Committee's Committee's proposal to make changes to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the 3rd ranked Terror Ending and Enhancing Social Integration Bill of Law and Internal Commission Report. The commission is here. The government is here. In yesterday's merger, over Article 5 of the bill, the talks were completed on behalf of groups. Now, we'll continue with the speeches on behalf of the individuals. Mr. Münir Kutluata, the first speaker on behalf of him, is a Sakarya MP.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0046par0046	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the grounds of Article 5 of Bill 629. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, this is the text ahead of us, where the AKP-PK relationship, or rather the ruling-PKK relationship, has been put in the form of the law. In the statement of the Prime Minister, a series of non-profit behaviors is now being tried to legitimize them with the law. But if it's like the Prime Minister's statement -- which it is -- then it can't be corrected by the law, it can't be made up by the law, but it can be done by giving up the actions I don't want to express on the council stand and apologizing to the nation. Look, we're dealing with a text that's all riya, just made up in the form of the law. ▪ The Anti-Terrorization and the Enhancing of Social Integration are called by the Law Bill. No, everyone knows that Turkey knows that this bill is a bill to meet the political demands of terrorism, the demands of a terrorist organization. I said all over the place. Please look at the 5th article I have promised. This clause, which is in all of the other laws, says, is in effect in the history of the publication of this law. There is no minister in charge, and if there were, I would ask if it were the Deputy Prime Minister who had positioned himself as co-chair of the terrorist organization, and I ask again: is this law going to take effect after the date it came out, or was everything said in this law until now? Is it not understood that the AKP has been conducting this for three days, since the day they came to power? Doesn't everyone know that a meeting at police academys took place in 2009? Likewise, Article 6 says that the Council of Ministers shall enforce these laws to be compared to other laws. At least be clear, be honest; this bill is a law imposed by the PKK, which will be enforced and enforced by it, and we are in this position. I also find it very difficult for you to pass these substances with applause in such an environment. I understand all those who have sacrificed themselves for this path from the ruling lawmakers who have stood on this stand, but since I have seen the presence of people in the AKP Group who have agreed not to put the Assembly in this position, I applaud these applause with extraordinary care and sadness. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, two sad arguments are being used to silence the nation. One of them is: we couldn't prevent it in thirty years, if it had continued. Please note that those who say this are sincere and naive, but we can see that those who say so much are judging from those ranks by being with the terrorist organization in the fight between the Turkish nation and the terrorist organization. If you'd said that they couldn't divide it in 30 years, they couldn't divide it in 30,000 years. If you'd said that, you wouldn't have brought the terrorist organization from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the power to make law, you wouldn't have brought it back. Another thing I'm very sorry to say is that the martyrs aren't coming. We're all happy, but I'm asking the government: from the day you arrived in power, when you stopped fighting terrorism and were martyring 1,143 children, every day when the police station was being raided, and one day, you watched these children become martyrs...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0047par0053	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0046par0054	You see, here today, we make the mothers give up, we make the community give up. Whoever put himself in the position of collecting martyr blood to say so, I complain to the people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0047par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. Mr. Süleyman Çelebi, there's a petition for your request to state your position on a matter. Yes, what is it?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0048par0059	Sir, this is about women, which, by the way, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0047par0060	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0048par0061	An important arrangement is being made. I'd like to talk to you for two minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0047par0062	Here, take your seat.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0048par0065	Mr. President, thank you very much. Of course, a very important arrangement for the end of terrorism is being discussed right now, but women are facing another act of terrorism in our country right now. In particular, women's organisations, NGOs, all women are now screaming the extraordinary gathering of the House, expressing their rebellion over the increase in murders against women. In particular, women's organisations express this particular scream that women whom the ministry has taken into protective custody have been murdered, demanding that good behavior be removed from women's murders. Women, really, right now, scream like this all over Turkey, and they're in the Ministry. They're demanding that this be made sensitive, that the House be assembled extraordinaryly, that Parliament is already in session, but they want a solution to this. Thank you, I just wanted to point that out.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0049par0069	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa, is the second speaker on behalf of him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0050par0076	Mr. President, Congresswoman of Şanliurfa, I hope, six hours a day, there's power going out in Urbana.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0049par0077	Mr. Tanal, please... Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0051par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to share my opinion and opinion on the bill of terrorism ending and providing social integration. I salute you all. This is the third day of this bill's negotiations. Many important discussions have been made; they have been accused of treason from time to time, and from time to time, we will judge those who pass this bill in the coming term. It has been said, "I will express my views on this. Of course, similar incidents took place in some European countries, in other countries around the world, while these issues were discussed, mainly, politically speaking. If we move these issues to the message point to gather the votes, these issues will have been moved thirty years and forty years to this day. For there are those who feed on it; and there are those who feed on it, and those who feed on it, and those who feed on it, and those who feed on it. So we've been doing what is called a very, very quiet revolution for 12 years, especially to narrow down these areas of abuse. It hasn't been mentioned in our society for thirty years or forty years; call it what you will, but come together from here, if this is an event that we can accept as a disease -- we see this disease as a disease of our country -- the people who prescribed this disease for 30 years, 40 years -- their sincerity and the prescription they've written, the results of the prescription that we've put in for 19 months. At the same time, references were given from abroad, from Oslo, from some places. Our references are nowhere. Our references have no advantage over anyone; our references, the faithful are brothers; our references, the Prophet (AS) enter Mecca with a certain Ethiopian, not enter with Omar, not enter with the elite.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0052par0084	What the hell is he talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0051par0085	...and you can go up to Abyssiniah the subject, and you can read him from there. These are our references.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0086	Who are you? What the fuck are you doing? Are you making mischief? Our nation is all Muslims.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0051par0087	So we're all together, regardless of color, skin, race, language, religion, color, race...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0088	I mean, that's a lot of cognitiveness. Who are you, us...?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0054par0089	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0090	Are you questioning people's religion?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0091	Now that we've built the past, we'll be in the way of building the future together.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0092	You're separating the MPs here from you, from us.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0056par0093	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0094	Look, I'd like to remind you of another event these days.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0095	You're after us, you're making up a fit. I don't know if you're fasting in holy Ramadan.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0096	We all need love.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0097	How dare you insult our religion, our religion?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0098	I'd like to rephrase that in particular...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0099	Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0057par0100	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0101	...the most beautiful message of love and conversation has been given by the Prophet.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0102	It's breaking up people's religion.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0057par0103	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0104	You cannot enter Paradise unless you have faith; you do not have faith unless you love one another.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0105	Look at that!
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0106	So we see the day we love each other, the day we embrace each other, the day we join each other.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0058par0108	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0109	We are, we are, we are... religion is all of us, the Prophet Lord is all of us.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0110	Therefore, the esteemed lawmakers, as the AK PARTY authorities, we have started...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0111	Who the hell do you think you are?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0112	...the sincerity of the prescriptions that have been laid out in these ways of peace so far. What do you understand about the process of solution? When you say blood and tears are over, the news of the martyrs has not been in this country for 19 months. I, especially in this holy month of Ramazan...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0053par0114	In the battle of Badr, the mindset of those who stood before our Lord the Prophet.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0055par0115	I wish for tolerance, love, brotherhood to be permanent, and I salute Parliament.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0059par0117	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0060par0118	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0059par0119	There is a motion on the matter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to continue the negotiations on Article 5 of the bill according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. As a result of the President's search for alliances in the election process, due to the threat of the separatist PKK terrorist organisation, brought to the TBMM agenda by the threat of the terrorist organisation and made the PKK terror organization legitimate, made the PKK terror organisation a legal and equal agreement of the government, which is a political will with PKK, I will not be able to change the sovereignty of the government, which represents the rule of the nation's will, I will not be able to violate the constitution and the law of the state's law over its independence and the laws of the country's laws, and I will not be able to violate the constitution of the state's sovereignty and the constitution of the country's non-constitution of the country, and I will not be able to violate the constitution of the state's law over its laws and its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its independence, over its laws, over its independence, over its independence and over its independence, over its laws, over its independence, over its independence and over its independence, over its independence, over its independence, over its independence, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its independence, over its independence, and over its laws, over its independence, over its laws, over its independence, over its independence, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, and over its laws and over its laws, and over its laws, and over its laws and over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, and over its laws, over its laws, and over its laws, over its independence and the province, over its laws, over its independence and the Constitution, over its laws, over its laws, over its laws, over its independence and over its laws, over its laws, over its independence and over its independence and over its independence and over its independence and over its independence and over its laws, and over its laws, and over its independence, over its independence, over its independence and the Lawmakers who have taken the oath have been advised to continue negotiations in order to further be informed of the arrangement that would undermine this oath. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0061par0131	We want roll call, sir. Mr. President, your request for roll call... Mr. Halaman, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Serkal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Belen, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Godkulu, Mr. Candy, Mr. Kaplan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0062par0136	Doesn't the CHP support you guys? Doesn't CHP have any support for this law? No, no, no. Just to be clear, guys. CHP doesn't support the law? Why isn't he doing roll call? I'm just saying, for the summer, let's file a report.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0063par0137	Go to the doctor and get a report.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0062par0138	Your president was saying, "We're supporting you on TV."
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0063par0139	Get a report, get a doctor, get a report.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0062par0140	There was one thing, and he got better. Didn't you hear what your president was saying?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit02spe0064par0142	There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 5 of the bill, the meeting was not enough before the vote of the motion to continue the talks submitted by Izmir MP Oktay Vural under Article 72 of the Interior Charter. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 629 from where we left off. The Commission and the Government are here. Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process for ten minutes. It's been set for five minutes to ask questions, five minutes to answer. However, because we did roll call, the last names of the MPs who entered the system to ask questions were deleted. I'll read your name, Mr. Lawmakers, get back in the system, and I'll start the question part after I've entered the system: Mr. Light, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Tanal. Initiating question-answer sequence. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0065par0018	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the PKK's terrorist organisation sees the solution process as a resurrection move. Again, it's been spoken here for three days, and one of the most important reasons the government has brought was for the drop of the gun. Today, we are not naive enough to drop weapons by the PKK leader from Kandil. There is a kind of explanation. So what did you go through this process of solutions in Turkey, guns shut down, mountain abductions ended, children ended up on the mountain? Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists walk around the area with their weapons, cut roads, collect taxes, build their own court, and in the midst of all of this, this bill should give the government until July 2nd... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the bill does not arrive in this period of time, we will make the necessary statement.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0066par0022	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0067par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Children kidnapped by the PKK, their mothers are in Diyarbakır Square, waiting for their children to be rescued crying under 40 degrees of heat. Do you, as a government, have any work to do? How many mothers do you think have been kidnapped? My second question is: PKK terrorist organisation threatens and kills rangers in various ways in the east and southeast. As a government, what measures have been taken to protect security forces, guards and families from the attacks of the terrorist organization? We want to know if there are any rangers who have been kidnapped or not released by the PKK.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0068par0027	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0069par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in the last few days since this bill has been discussed, some of the PKK's terrorist organization's officials have said yesterday that a member of the terrorist organization, Cemil Bayık in Kandil, would never leave weapons and would not use initiative to join unless the government makes the law their way. I wonder if the ministers who came to this great parliament and made a statement on behalf of the government are trying to trick the people of the Deputy Prime Minister, or are they unaware of the terrorist organization's work? Second: How many kidnapped citizens are still in the hands of the PKK terrorist organization? What has been done to this day by your government regarding the recovery of these?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0070par0032	Thank you. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0071par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, when negotiations were being held on the bill in the process of the Interior Commission, a HDP MP issued a warning, saying: "This bill is not in line with the text of agreement." What did he mean by that? Is there a written or verbal agreement between your government and the terrorist organization signed? If it's signed, will you say I'm not the one who signed it? I specifically expect you to answer that question. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0072par0037	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0073par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to read an e-mail exactly that came into my mailbox and ask you a question on that. He is a scoundrel who does not see the zero terror in 2002, and does not come to the PKK for surrender. Terror was defeated in 1994, the PKK had to change its name, give up the armed struggle. As of 2002, terror was zero. The AKP has arrived, the PKK has revenant the PKK. Now that he's surrendered, he's given up the southeast, and he's not coming to the funeral. He's glad he's not coming. There's no funeral coming from the Balkans either, because we gave it to them. It says the owner of the e-mail. Is this claim true? I'm asking the Minister to answer that.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0072par0040	Mr. Yilmaz... But you have 20 seconds.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0074par0042	Mr. President, you read my name at the beginning...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0072par0043	It's not time. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0075par0045	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, there's terror in a particular region, there's a martial law that's being enforced by the PKK, and our agriculture and animalism in the region is being affected in a negative way. Can you enlighten us on the measures that need to be taken? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0076par0048	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there are some questions about Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Right, Mr. Light, Mr. Özcan, all of them, in fact, about the matter, of the bill and what this bill brings or brings. Now, the solution is that, in fact, since Turkey has never been able to solve this problem in any other way that it's tried, because it can't solve it in any other way, how do we deal with it by making a consensus with the nation, and now we're dealing with it, that's what's actually done. We all know that from 1920 to 1980, there is a problem. This problem may not seem to be visible from the outside, but it's growing inside of you, and it's bleeding inside of you, and everybody knows that, and the people in the area, and the people outside the area, everybody knows that. After 85, the problem became open-bleed, and tens of thousands of people died while he continued to bleed out.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0077par0052	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions, the questions, your time is up. That's the best answer to this question. Come on, you're telling a story, don't tell a story. Yes, it's not a story, it's not a story.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0078par0056	Mr. Secretary, where did you study that this country is being discriminated against?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0079par0057	Look, you know it's a story, and you know it.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0080par0058	Congressmans, please... Now, that's not a story, that's your question.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0081par0060	Answer the questions, the questions. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY SEEMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0082par0062	You're telling a story.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0083par0063	Shame, sin, shame! Where did you study, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0081par0064	You tell stories to hide the truth. Look, this is...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0084par0066	Congressmans, please. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0081par0068	Let him answer the questions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0085par0069	Sir, the questions are concrete, the answers are concrete.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0086par0070	I don't know how many years there's been trouble in this country.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0087par0071	Shame on you, Minister, what more do you want?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0088par0072	Mr. Longwalk... Mr. Secretary, please. Since 1985, this open-bleed wound has affected the whole of Turkey, and none of the methods that all the parties in Turkey's ruling, including the political party of our questionable MPs, have tried to solve this issue the way it should have been. So, neither peace was built, nor any of them contributed to Turkey's recovery from the problem. This problem has gotten bigger and bigger.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0089par0075	Tell the truth, the truth. With our nation's agreement historically, we have established the will to resolve this problem in peace, as our nation has been waiting for a very long time. In fact, this attempt, this attempt, this attempt, is the name of this. And We have made the covenant with the people, and We have not made any statement of any soul, or any word that is made in the earth, except with the people of understanding. What the nation expects of us is the solution to this issue, what people expect of us is that there are no more tears in Turkey, no more bloodshed in Turkey, what people expect of us.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0090par0077	Why are you bringing in this law? Why are you trying to shield criminals? A friend of mine asked me, how many of the mothers in Diyarbakir have applied for their children? Look, she's up to 126. They're saying something, they're saying that we don't want to see our children's funeral anymore. They don't have a son, he doesn't know where he is. There are people who have lost their child in the mountains before, including those who have been in their relatives' prisons. This problem is not our problem alone, it's the problem of the nation. Among you -- the opposition party, the ruling party -- all of Turkey's citizens, all of whom, for some reason, have entered or died in the mountains because of this matter that everyone knows, he has either been killed or his heart burned out. Now, I'm asking you that question, and you don't have to give me the answer to that question, but you ask yourself, ask your own people, how many people have been hurt by that question in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0091par0083	You answer what you're asked. Our problem is to solve this problem. No more crying for the mothers, no more hurting anyone.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0092par0086	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0093par0087	Mr. President, through you, our deputies have raised concrete questions to the Minister. Therefore, we'd appreciate it if you'd advise the Minister to answer these questions, considering these questions... because he's asking them through you. These are your questions. And whatever MP asked you a question, whatever the answer to that question is, it should address it, but if he's going to talk in general...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0092par0088	I'll tell you, and then you step in, and you don't go out of your way.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0093par0089	...Mr. Secretary doesn't need to use this, he can speak on the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0092par0090	No, then you don't go out of your way, because you're having a conversation about it, so I'm not saying it, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0093par0091	Sir, yes, because we're asking questions.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0092par0092	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0093par0093	The Minister won't ask us, we'll ask the Minister. People ask, they run away from people's questions, and then we make an alliance with the nation. Where? You're making an alliance with the PKK. Of course, weren't you the one who prepared the reception at the Ataturk Forest Farm? Weren't you the one who prepared the ceremony at the Ataturk Forest Farm? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakır) Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0094par0096	There is a motion in Article 5 that I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5 of Act 1/941 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Alim Iklüş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Engin Alan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0095par0108	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0094par0109	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0096par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this law that has been discussed in the High Council for days has not been understood enough in public. Like my solution, like peace, don't let the mothers cry. In packages such as these, the bag is trapped in the expectation of the law. This law is the acceptance of a crime that is being committed, a permit for crimes to be committed. Although the constitution is known to be against the Constitution, the laws imposed on the authorities are granted the freedom to commit crimes. Do the parties who support this law and the signs that these parties have taken, do they know what kind of disaster this country will lead to? Masters, this delegation that you have authorized, and the government, a committee that raises the terror monster, negotiates with terrorists, over the interests of the country, by making laws on their return to the country with zero terrorism, the amendment to the Turkish Penal Code, the removal of the execution due to terrorism. It's always been true that this committee denies it, so how do you still trust this committee? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're going through days of historical significance. This government and this committee have no intention of fighting terrorism, and it never has. With this law, you know you can't prevent terrorism. The head of terror is neither Imran nor Kandil. They're subcontractors, they're all extras. Masters, there's a problem with terrorism in this country, and it ends either by handing it over or by whatever he says, it's over. This committee chose the second one and surrendered to the terrorist organization. He left part of the country to the terrorist organization, and the organisation gained territory control. They have made people in the region miserable and regretful who have fought against the organisation for years, protected the state of the Republic of Turkey, hung flags on their homes. These people, alone with the organization, are either fighting and dying or leaving the area. The position of this delegation in Oslo, in Imralı, here and there has caused the organization to feel like spring, as the Prime Minister went to Diyarbakır and surprised Barzani. These terrorists they encouraged were encouraged, instead of coming down from the mountain to deliver weapons, the mountain went up, the roads were cut off in front of the gendarmes, the outposts were burned down, the Turkish flag was taken down from military troops. This is all the work of this delegation and the government we've seen. Masters, you're hurting the state of the Republic of Turkey with this law against the unity of the Turkish nation. The Turkish people are writing them down, you know. When the day comes, neither this committee nor your supporters will escape the account the Turkish nation will ask. Kurds are not a problem; they are highly honored members of the Turkish nation's family. Alparslan Türkesh, our prime minister, said: "The more Kurdish you are, the more Kurdish we are; the more Turkish we are, the more Turkish you are." The work you've done, the steps you've taken, are damaging the brotherhood, causing a corrupt, rented organization to destroy our thousand-year brotherhood. Mr. President, you have ignored the historical warnings issued by the State Gardener. You've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've done it, you've covered it up, but remember, you can't escape the justice of God. This nation, as you speak, is an honorable member of this family, which is all Turkish and proud of being Turkish. We will live in this land for thousands of years, and no one will be able to divide or divide us. Blessed is he who says he is Turkish.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0097par0121	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on Article 5 of the bill, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose an open vote of Article 5 of the Law Bill 629 in the form of a clear vote. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Bahattin Sugar, Bilek? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. Yusuf Ziya Irbeç, Antalya? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The open vote will be carried out by electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the conclusion of the open vote of Article 5 of the Law Bill 629: [[x]] Thus, the 5th article is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Engin Altay of Sinop will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0098par0161	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. Supposedly, a bill came in to end terrorism; we're doing well; we have no objection, but your deputies are terrorizing the Plan and Budget Commission. Please, I don't mean all of it, but some lawmakers need to be sympathetic to the opposition's reactions and reflexes in Parliament. In the event that the reflexes are at an extreme point of law, according to the Interior Charter, there are procedures for which the commissioners will take action. We have very much wished that the moment when a member of parliament was walking on top of an MP would never happen again, and we said it would not be a good thing if it happened. But, speaking of peace today, I would like to point out that I also condemn the terror of ruling parliamentary lawmakers in Parliament.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0099par0164	Mr. Altay, I'll add it to your time. Congressmans, I can't hear Mr. Altay, please, I beg you to be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to enter that no human demand, violation of basic rights and freedoms, which can not justify terrorism, terrorism, and any violation of human rights in order to build a state order and authority facility. Human rights violations by the state for the purpose of a proper facility cannot be shown as a source or basis for the purpose. For that reason, I have just said, Mr. Minister, that the date was wrong, but not 1985, but since August 15, 1984, there's been bloodshed in Turkey, and we want this blood stopped, and we've been asking for it. However, when you say that, let's assume that we've eliminated the PKK terror organization, if you say the Kurdish problem is over, and if you ask me, it's not over. The Kurdish problem is not a problem that was born with the PKK terrorist organisation. I looked at the Kurdish problem, and there were 13 great riots in the Ottomans, 25 riots during the republic, and these riots were suppressed one way or another, and I wish these riots hadn't happened. Under these riots, there's external support, external provocation, I know, everybody knows, but I wish the most innocent, most acceptable, most basic human rights were not violated. For example, I'm one of those people who think that the blood of this tragedy in southeast Turkey, the gunpowder part, the bomb part, was a work and product of September 12, 1980. No one can argue that what happened in Diyarbakır Prison after September 12th did not change the public's view of the state in that area. Thus, it is certain that the pressure of some elements within the government's device above acceptable boundaries for the people of the region triggers and fuels conflict in this region. However, the holy ideal, no matter what the purpose, is to put a bullet in innocent people without sin, is an event that we strongly reject, condemn, and approach. Mr. President, now, at this point, there is a list of 11 pages, murder and death, from August 15, 1984 to the last incident in Pervari, August 18, 2011. Mr. Secretary or a AKP spokesman just said: "The past governments have not succeeded in this matter." True. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth pages of this list of murders -- I mean, I separate them from here -- the people who died because of the events on these papers -- and if you think, Mr. Secretary, their blood is in the past government, there are five pages of cases, there are six murders, and if you look at it, the responsibility of this blood is your government. That's not what I'm saying, I'm not pointing this blood directly at the government, but a speaker just spoke and tried to clear the current government with the ability to pin all responsibility on the past government. The problem can't be solved by approaching like this. Congressmans, we're not after grapes, we're not after farmers, we're not after them, and we never have been. As a matter of fact, at the Republican People's Party, the 89 and 91 of our friends at the time in the SHP, there was no division left in Turkey, nor any separatism, but at the point where we came in today, many of what we said already happened, they were complete, they were satisfied, but the problem was not solved, because the problem was not solved. We can't look at things with this perception: Sir, look at it this way, or what were the demands of the human family, or the human family, ten thousand years ago, what were their sensitivities, what were their red lines? Now go back a hundred years, a thousand years, ten thousand years ago, compare the sensibilities, the red lines, the ones from a hundred years ago; there's an unacceptable abyss. A hundred years ago, when you compare the sensitivity, the red lines, the red lines 20 years ago, and the red lines from 20 years ago, the red lines from 30 years ago, we're a different point when you compare them to the sensitivity, values, perceptions, red lines today, on July 10, 2014. If we reduce this to a simpler form, I'll throw it out, 50 years ago, when we say the state is just the state, we call it the people today; we've crossed the human rights, we've passed the basic human rights, we've called the nature rights, we call the environment rights, we call them individual preferences. So as humanity develops, perceptions and values change. It's just like three years ago, when prosecutors are suing for someone who says Mr. Ocalan, we're at the point where they're about to be sued for not saying so today. I'm not saying this critically, but I want to point out a process of understanding. Mr. President, how many more minutes are you gonna give me, three more minutes?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0101par0173	Did I cut you three minutes?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0174	Now, when we announced the solution process on January 5th, we had a party council meeting, and, yes, we'll open up a loan. Let's do some friendly warnings. We demand the minimum necessity of sincerity and honesty. Law rules... personal ambition, no secret agendas. Let's be clear, transparent. And we said one more thing: let's not create any new disappointments. Look, lawmakers, this has always been on the list of events that I've just shown: before the 2007 elections, the government made some commitments, the terror stopped; the election was over, but the death toll was not fulfilled, and the death toll rose statistically after the election. Promises were made before the 2009 elections, the election is over, promises after the election, promises when the promises fail, and if two people die when they fail, I've seen 10 people die, and that's how it is, I can give it to anyone who wants it. ▪ Let no new disappointments be created. That is what we mean, that people should not be manipulated by their claims, by their insistence or by their dreams or by their hopes. Some political goals shouldn't be done to prolong the political life here. It's in the simplest, most innocent terms. We've drawn attention to them, and it's been 19 months since then. We've come to the point where we've come to a framework bill. I always said this Parliament could break anything, but it couldn't break the law. And I said, for whatever purpose, for whatever holy cause, we can't break the law. And in the second joke of the 4th article of the bill, it's partly not enough, but yes. There's been an arrangement. We think it's an undisclosed duty to the government. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0178	I did.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0179	You didn't.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0180	I gave him a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0181	No, I didn't hear anything interrupted, so I'd sort it out, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0182	Mr. Engin Altay, I've given you one minute, supplemental, please...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0183	Mr. President, if you can fit such an important matter in a minute, I'll leave these papers here.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0184	Well, what can I do? Ten minutes of group talk.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0185	Two minutes, I'm the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0186	Okay, but I'll give the group's vice president ten minutes, Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0100par0187	If I had known my time had been rebooted, I would have arranged it, you should have warned me. You didn't say you were right if you said you had an extension.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0188	There's no such reason, there's no obligation. I'll give you an extra minute. Mr. Halaçoglu, I'll give you a minute. Here you go. One minute...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0103par0192	This frame, I've told you before, is made of wood, frame is made of metal, frame is made of hard plastic. Congressmans, your government frame is rubber. If it's used well, it's okay, but we say we don't trust it as opposition. Kandil says: "They have deceived us twice too. We are not too happy now to give such a rubber frame to this government, not too comfortable. But, again, our priority is peace, and it's a permanent solution. In order to resolve the problem, we will observe and oversee the use of the authority vested in the government with good intentions, sincere, constructiveness. It's not our job, it's yours. The purpose of sitting in these seats is to inspect this place. That's what we're sworn to here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0195	Mr. Engin Altay, plus one minute, one minute. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0103par0197	We voted positive for this bill, we vote positive for it. We have one goal, we want peace, we want it now, we want it for everyone, we want it now.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0102par0199	Şırnak MP Selma Irmak will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I'll give you a plus one minute, Mr. River.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0104par0202	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, today we are taking final round of talks on a very important bill. After more than 30 years of losing a few generations in this country, we have now decided to resolve our problems through negotiation, or after this final tour, we will put it to a vote. It's a very important, very historic process that we think is significant for Congress and may be considered a turning point, and we look at it this way. For years, the government representing the state and state has tried to resolve problems through violence, security policies in this country. Not only in the Kurdish problem, but in the human rights issue, in the issues of freedom of expression, in the issue of media broadcasting, in the problems of rights and freedoms, he followed the same method, so he handled more security issues and carried out this way. But at the moment we've come to see and see that violent policies, security-axis solutions, unfortunately, have not been resolved, have deepened the problems, and today the state has decided to resolve their problems by negotiating with its citizens. This is a very important step, this document shows us that. It's information that we've acquired after over thirty years, it's information that we've gained, and it's valuable information. Of course, we have to use that information very carefully, and we think we have to avoid it like the light of our eyes. Yes, as stated in the document, there are certain aspects that need to be judged, there is a little bit more specificization of the framework, and there are points that can have adverse consequences when used with bad intent. We've discussed it, and we'll continue to discuss it. It's also important to say that we don't believe in solving the problem with one document, not a magic wand or a prescription. This problem cannot only be dealt with as a security issue, we have decided only to negotiate, and that is how we start the peace process. It is not a problem that can be solved. This problem in our country is economic, political, political, cultural, a very comprehensive problem that includes human rights. So, of course, the way this solution process is handled has to include these issues, and if we don't cover these issues and make new laws about them -- new legal regulations -- it will not be more than just a piece of paper, and the decision of this paper will be no more than just paper. As I said, it's historical, it's an important step, and this Parliament has taken such a step, and it has begun by adding a new process to its history, but it won't be enough, it needs to be done, it needs to be filled. In all the peace and negotiation processes around the world, as we know, processes work among the parties, but it is imperative that there be a commission that monitors them. Therefore, the creation of the monitoring commission is part of the negotiating bill, which is vital to implementing it. However, in the first article of the negotiating law, there are nine main topics. It is vital that the commissions be formed and those commissions begin to function as soon as possible in these nine main topics. As we have stated, peace occurs between parties and those who fight; yes, agreements are also made, and there may be results on paper, but there is something more important than that, and there are processes we call collective peace. Social peace is a process that is built on the way that social groups can deal with their judgment against each other, their prejudices, their hoardings of anger, and their hatred to break each other. The peace signed on paper would mean nothing without public peace. So we have to create a large portion of our work on establishing social peace, we have to spend our shifts on it, otherwise, as we say, we will not be able to achieve healing justice, restorative justice, social and lasting peace. Maybe we can close a process, or an organization can stop using violence, stop seeking its rights through violence, the people can give up rioting, a generation of people can say, yes, I've negotiated or I've signed a peace treaty. But no one can guarantee that a new organization will not emerge until the source of the problem is dried up, without real peace. We raised our generations and children almost separately. Right now, our young people are in a position against each other. We've lost a few generations, I'm afraid, as well. The more the blood, the later the peace. So we can't give up without creating a place where our children can embrace each other, build the social structure, build peace and free days, without saying Turkish-Kurdish, Alevi-Sunni, Muslim-gay. Maybe that's the biggest responsibility we have ahead of us. We have to make peace with the new generation, build the future on peace, freedom, and equality. Therefore, the steps are ahead of us. For example, we have to provide the trust issue, once in a while. There is work for our young, our crying mothers, our families, to end a new life with the loss of their children, or rather the death of their children. For example, the release of sick prisoners may be a first step. The evacuation of prisons is another step ahead of us. 17,000 perpetrators are in the mind of this country. Tomorrow, the court of War Buldan, the wife of the beloved Pervin Buldan. Mehmet Agar will come to this court and testify here. Here they stand in front of us as another step, asking for the account of 17,000 perpetrators and confronting them. Other than that, we live in a geography where 4,000 villages have been evacuated, 3.5 million people have been destroyed. This is a separate war tragedy. You can't read the name of the tragedy that women experience here. To do so, it is imperative that the return to the village be arranged immediately, that the state carry out its duty and responsibility in this matter. In addition, facing the past, reckoning with the past, setting up commissions of truth and justice, and taking these fundamental steps, financial and spiritual compensations, apology, social peace and restorative justice are essential. These are the tasks and responsibilities that await us. The negotiating law is very important, but at the same time, the work will be much heavier, much more important, and much more decisive. So perhaps we should start by first building the language of peace, leaving the language that opposes each other. It is perhaps one of the greatest responsibilities that lies ahead of us, without instilling our children, our young, and the new generation, the established safety policies, the acceptance of one another, the policy of rejecting one another. The creation of institutions, institutions, commissions to be formed, as we call it, and with that, the creation of social-building healing actions, rehabilitative institutions, institutions, will bring this process to success. We find the negotiating law positive, of course, and we find the government's steps to be valuable and positive about it, but we also say that the gold must be filled, the law on this issue, and the executives must handle it more seriously. Our future is bright now, we want this light to continue. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0105par0214	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr Mehmet Metiner, Adıyaman MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0106par0218	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've been having a very intense discussion over the last few days, under the roof of the High Assembly, to resolve a very important matter of our country. There is no doubt that even the negotiation process itself has historical significance. It is also an important indicator of where Turkey came from. Today is the day when even the pronunciation of the word Kurdish is considered a crime. Today, under the roof of parliament, we can discuss the Kurdish issue and the PKK issue in the most free manner; not only do we discuss it, but a revolution was carried out during the period of AK PARTI, near all the basic rights and freedoms mentioned in the Kurdish issue. Kurdish identity accepted. All obstacles to Kurdish have been removed. The denial and assimilation paradigm that created the Kurdish issue is history in our party's rule. The difficult and violent policies associated with denial and assimilation were also buried during our rule. If the denial ended, the rebellion would be called over. We have finished the denial, and it is time for the rebellion to end. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I want to make it very clear here that the solution process is a process that aims to end the rebellion. We had two problems with the former Turkey: the first is the Kurdish problem, the second is the PKK mountain problem. The state paradigm of the former Turkish paradigm, which sits on the denial of Kurdish identity and assimilation policies that aim to Turkishise our Kurdish brothers, is no longer there. To make it more clear, the new Turkey is no longer a Kurdish issue. The new Turkey has a PKK mountain issue to resolve. What we're trying to do with the solution process is to rebel in the old Turkey and return armed elements that no longer have any purpose to remain on the mountain, to build a new Turkey, where the children of this country no longer kill each other. The ultimate goal of the solution process is to achieve disarmament and thus pave the way for return to home and politics. That's at the heart of this bill we've brought in. With this bill, we want to establish the legal subset of the solution process. So this bill is a legal framework. The process of taking steps to achieve this good outcome will come from now on. Dear friends, we've been here for many days with various accusations, unjust and baseless criticisms. Of course, we care about the discussion process, and we don't mind it, but criticism is a matter of mercy. Especially when it comes to insulting words. No party under the roof of this House is more patriotic than any other. We all agree on the singleness of the country and its undivisable integrity. Thus, accusations of treason and treason should not be used publicly, nor should they be carefully avoided in a language that will hurt each other. In solving a problem we inherited from ancient Turkey, we need to avoid specific rhetoric and provocations that will cause new problems, and more importantly, ruin our social peace. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond to some allegations and accusations from here. A fellow MP has made a very serious accusation, describing this process as a solution to al dictatorship. Everyone should know that the solution process has nothing to do with the election. Moreover, we have no concern about winning a choice. When we started this process in Diyarbakir Square, there was no election. I'd also like to remind you that those who talk about dictatorship should first look at their past. When they look, they see there's a bloody dictatorship. In a country where the Kurdish-PKK issue can be freely discussed, it is logical that a party, the creator and the founder of this issue, speaks of dictatorship.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0107par0225	Who do you mean? Who do you mean?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0106par0226	We would like to remind CHP to continue its support without taking refuge in the rear of its people and that we see the need for a solution to the problem.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0107par0227	Speak frankly, it's obvious. Who do you mean?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0106par0228	We support it, but sentences that start with the term ▪ should not be carried to the extent that will harm the process. Our fellow MPs from the MP's office kept saying that this bill was a treason project, and they made some unjust accusations. We have not brought this bill in order to satisfy PKK's claim. We started the solution process to get the gun, not the PKK's heart. [[Noises in MHP rows]] We have not started the process of resolving an area to submit it to PKK in a golden platter, as alleged. The solution process is not an acquisition process, it's not a negotiation process. If we're going to talk about it, then we're going to say that the solution process is the name of a process where politics instead of a weapon, life is meant to be replaced by death. Everyone should know that the PKK is not discussing the fate of a region or the future of the Kurdish people. There is no negotiation process, such as meeting PKK's autonomy and similar political demands. The axis of the negotiation is two things: a return home and a return to politics. Dear friends, don't be afraid of politics. In a time when guns will be left forever and decided on politics, each will do his own bidding. Nor is the claim that we legitimized the PKK. No organization with a weapon can be legitimized. It cannot be defined in the form of legitimisation of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to allow those who prefer politics instead of weapons to return home. The solution process seeks to remove PKK weapons and withdraw to a legal and legitimate area. You can't miss the difference between these two. The argument that the solution process will bring division is not true. The solution process is a project to reintegrate Turkey on the basis of acceptance of differences and the understanding of equal citizenship, which is on the verge of dividing by denial, assimilation and difficult policies. When the solution process succeeds, the country will not be divided, but it will be more integrated. The solution process is not a division process, but a process of integration. This country belongs to all of us, this state belongs to all of us, this flag belongs to all of us, this country belongs to all of us. On this common land, we will all live as equal citizens in basic rights and freedoms. As Turk, as Kurdish, as Kurdish, we simply want a strong and single Turkey, where everyone lives freely with their differences. The new Turkey our EC PARTY wants to build is Turkey, where everyone lives as a free and equal citizen and is based on solving their problems in democratic dialogue without resorting to violence, weapons. That's the kind of Turkey that we're going to end up in. Dear friends, some of our congressman friends are stuck in the envelope. We also understand their sensitivities, but a policy that cares more about taking advantage than sticking to an envelope is more necessary for the success of the solution process. ▪ We need to walk the road without being struck by words like terror, and so on, not letting words get in the way, but eating grapes is our goal. Because of the AK PARTY hostility, those who are trying to build assets, just like other parties, know that they cannot contribute meaningfully to the solution process. This bill is an envelope, it'll come from behind. The legislation of this bill means that steps and measures to solve the problem will form legal infrastructure. Dear friends, we are approaching the end of the solution process. The light at the end of the tunnel is starting to appear, so let's not miss this historic opportunity. We have two options: either we continue to consume each other by hitting each other or we will all say hello to a new process in which we will all win an honorable peace. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has shown that it will not be able to get results with the weapons, and PKK will not be able to finish with only weapons. Only the weapons-based solutions caused everyone a lot of pain and loss to our country. Now, we're on the verge of a new era where everyone wins.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0108par0236	Plus a minute of your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0106par0238	With democratic dialogue and negotiation, we can solve this problem. There's no need to be offended by this untested procedure. If we can get results with this method, we'll all win together. It neither causes division nor loss to the country, but strengthens our social integration and gives the country the chance to give up their weapons. Dear friends, no one beats another, none of us is the enemy of the other, none of us is making each other kneel. Our language must be different, of course, to end a domestic dispute. With an honorable peace that none of us can bring to one another on our knees, a new process is to be opened up for all to win. Let's all contribute to this halalization process. It is incumbent on all of us to build a new Turkey where both Mehmet and Mehmet the Turk will not cry. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0109par0242	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak for Kayseri MP. Mr. Halaçoglu, since you also have a conversation on behalf of your own, your time of conversation is 15 plus 1. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0110par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we have reached the end of the Bill of Law on the End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration. We see that the Deputy Prime Minister has declared yesterday that he does not believe that we can make a contribution. We've actually made some very important contributions, but only to understand. It should not be forgotten that in their intent, the sincere ones are on the right path. We have warned the government according to his word, and we have told them what is to come, but they do not want to understand. Can you imagine that a law that has been passed should be called... and those who have prepared the law should make new laws. Let it say so, but in the face of questions, we don't know what else to make of it. All of this, in fact, reveals the kind of logic that makes the law. In addition, the Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws in Article 6. The first paragraph of Article 2 of Article 2 is not included in the Constitution, nor in other legal texts, but also in conflict with Article 6 of Article 6 of Law. What does the government say is that as part of the solution process, the government conducts the necessary work on the following issues. The Council of Ministers or the government? There's no way of knowing what to do with such a swift draft of the law. What is it, sir, is that according to Article 2 (a), he has determined steps that can be taken in the areas of political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological, cultural, human rights, security and disarming and related to the end of terrorism and strengthening social integration. Who's stopping you, brother? These tasks are already the duties of a government. What's the point of this being put back on the force? Unless, of course, there are other purposes. If the government's actions in the above issues are implemented according to the Constitution and the valid legal rules, it is not possible for those who apply them to become criminals. Thus, the legal, administrative, and criminal responsibility of those who carry out the duties given under this law in the 4th article (2) was not born due to the 2n article (a), (b) and (c) jokes. Snap out of it, guys! In what legal system would he condemn a law enforced by the legislature? In fact, either you don't know the law or you've prepared an ulterior motive. Even in the legal texts of the Ottoman state five hundred and fifty years ago, it states that a verdict should not condemn the person who enforces the law in order to be a law. May I remind you, this is 2014. The rules of the new Turkey and the advanced democracy include crime in future practices of the laws to be adopted? You mean, if our practices are criminal, we'll do it. Yeah, we're going through a really historic phase. You've brought a law clause that will first enter the world's literature. By this, you also violate the 125th Amendment of our Constitution. What does our Constitution say: The way of judgment is clear against all actions and procedures of the administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know as well as I do that the articles of this law are distorted. There are other things under it, even though you call it the law. In Oslo, one of the three mediators in the PKK-MİT secret talks reports says: "It would be better to focus more on what can be done in the future than on repeat events in the past. We made a suggestion to both sides in a mini-package style. It was a suggestion to restore trust on both sides toward Nevruz. I'd like to stress that this was just our idea, and we haven't received any positive offers from the Turkish side or from the Kurdish side. It was an initiative under our responsibility, not both sides. His ideas, produced by Abdullah Ocalan, will be considered when they make law in Parliament. We're talking about two things: public statements, and the way behind the scenes. We told them that they were already negotiating with the PKK, which is very risky for both the MIT and the state. What will the CHP and the MHP say if it goes public today? What would happen if, as representatives of the state, the members of the MIT were heard to be negotiating here in Oslo, as well as with the mountain staff? What would CHP and MHP say? I guess that's the point. As a matter of fact, the terrorist leader had to warn the government officials who had been talking to him and Kandil at various times, put these talks on a legal basis, otherwise you're committing a crime. Yes, that's why you're trying to put them on a legal basis, but you can't do that either. Because you can't tell who to talk to about what. If you're talking about transparency, why don't you make it clear that you'll be meeting with Kandil (Kandil) and the Imran (Imran)? And since you haven't, you're trying to eliminate the criminal responsibility of your past meetings and future discussions by this law. I'd like to ask you a few serious questions. Do you believe that if we put aside the Habur scandal, they will keep their word after this, considering that the PKK has promised to you and failed to keep its promise, that they will first go out of the border by dropping their weapons, and then they will break out of the border with their weapons? What are you going to do if they don't stop? And what reason do you have for them to go on the path of new militant supply, not only to go off the border after that? But unfortunately, you're ignoring them. Because in 2003, the Prime Minister accused the people who claimed that they were meeting with the terrorist organization and the Imrarian criminal of being an asshole. Again, on 26 July 2009, the terrorist leader called through his lawyers on ▪Özal Talabani. First I said to Talabani, what do you say? And I was surprised. Later, when Mr. Erbakan was Prime Minister, he received a call from the Syrian President. The military called through Brussels. They finally asked me to come here. Mr. Erdogan and Gül have had calls, requests, even through the press, even if they were indirect. So I answered them. He says. The presidency therefore denies this statement and states that it has nothing to do with the truth. In the same way, Prime Minister Counsellor Kemal Ozturk explains that some media organs today have found false allegations that the terrorist ringleader sent him an indirect message and asked for it. The Prime Minister has never sent a message to any terrorist organization, particularly the PKK, or through the press, or asked for anything. Those words against the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey are all lies and slander. It is announced with respect to the public. However, it is strange that the Prime Minister in the following time has submitted this statement in his name, and has discussed it with televisions before this, and will be under my command. He reveals how they have deceived the people. Of course, it is also useful to point out that the government must also consider that these statements were made when the Habur scandal, which began when the Kurdistan Workers' Party announced that they could come to Turkey freely and would not be arrested if they arrived. Is there anything changing in the time period we're in? On the contrary, the PKK now makes a difference that will not be compared to five years ago: it can freely travel through the countryside and cities with its weapons, embrace it with its political extensions, hold it in line, make an ID check, fight with the state who wants to build a police station or a fortress, open a pit between the provinces, closes the roads for weeks, and cut down the flag, which is the symbol of independence of the Turkish government, and can also put the flag in the military union underfoot, and cut off its feet, and cut off its tracks, and drive off the rangers without being exposed. In exchange, the soldiers and police can't leave the barracks or their outposts. I guess it's not called democracy, it's about corruption and terrorism. As a matter of fact, when this law is being discussed from the Parliament's bench, travel with the government around with a party that says PKK is not a terrorist organization, that there is a war with Kurds and that there must be an opening under the name of peace. They deceive people with their sentimentality, the so-called lack of blood, the absence of news of martyrdom. When you say division, you don't think we're talking about watermelon. The division of states is not like the crack and division of watermelons when they throw knives. The so-called good intentions of the Jon Turks, who are absorptionists, have deposed Sultan Abdulhamit, thinking that because they do not have the culture of the state, they do not have the culture of the state. They solved the so-called issue of churches in the Balkans, which they thought he couldn't solve, but their actions cost the Ottoman State a lot of money, and a year later, the Balkan Wars lost all Balkans. Two years after the outbreak of World War I, most of the Ottoman lands were lost, Asia Minor occupied, and we had to fight the national battle. If you would like to have an opinion on what the state is, read the Mukadimem of Ibn Haldun. Ibn Haldun says that states are born, grow and die like men. Look at the date in this frame, how many states have survived? The disintegration of states has always been sincere, not external. Anatolian geography is a very dangerous geography, and nowhere in the world have so many governments and civilizations been destroyed. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad that we're clearly discussing everything here. You're saying and adding that I don't expect any contribution from you. This Parliament didn't start speaking during your time of power. If you look at the minutes of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you'll see that there are more heated talks in this parliament. Everything was spoken in the Ottoman parliaments, but it's not the talk that counts, it's the adoption of the most useful law, given what the opposition has said. I also recommend that today, those who link the emergence of armed terrorists to the closure of the madrases in the East, which were taught in different native languages in the early republic, reread history. In the 19th century, the Ottomans would see separatist riots, and beneath most of them is an event of foreign forces and schools built by them. A state builds an army to sustain its own existence and protects itself, which is its right of course. In the incidents of terror in Turkey, the state must carry out its duty to ensure its unity and integrity, to ensure its citizens' future. There were some who asked, "Did there need to be so much loss? " In that sense, did we need to offer 250,000 martyrs in Chanakkale? I mean, what would happen if there were to be an illegal organization where they were illegally armed with guns, baby, child, woman, old man, soldier, police, teacher, and teacher? No one should expect flowers from an illegal organization. If the organization shows good faith, feels remorse by leaving a weapon, they will be interviewed and done according to the law. But no, if he wants to take advantage of threats and blackmail without leaving a weapon, you don't sit down and talk to them, every sincere approach is described as a compromise, new demands for new compromises arise. Such organisations strive to achieve their goals with such approaches; they do not abandon their material power and armed power at your request. As it has always appeared in its image from the truth, it has increased its power to achieve its goal. Did you not learn from the terrorist leader's words: When the terrorist leader is arrested in 1999, I will work for peace? If you'll excuse me, I'll take him down from the mountain in three months. When I say, on February 23, 2013, we'll make the guerrilla bigger in the area where we were drawn. If I'm successful, there'll be no ACK prisoners, no one else. If this does not happen, there will be a public war with 50,000 people. How can you trust them after these words? How can we believe you? Today, as of July 10th, KCK's co-chair, Cemil Bayik, says whoever thinks the guerrilla is going to abandon the resistance and the weapon is delusional.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0111par0268	You're talking about plus one minute, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0110par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the law you have passed, in terms of historical experience, I say it will make you more difficult, but it is Turkey that will be the most difficult, the Turkish nation. I hope that this law is not a masterpiece of the Motherland under the scope of your practices in the coming period. I hope you don't go down in history with a new son-in-law, Farid, otherwise neither the Turkish nation nor history will forgive you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0112par0273	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Ziver Özdemir, Batman MP.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0113par0276	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 6th Amendment of Law Bill 629. I hereby salute all of you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their screens, celebrating the Ramadan month of all our citizens. This framework bill will be remembered in Turkey as one of the best laws I think Parliament has made and will make, because it is important, of course, that for the first time in the country, the political institution has shown such strong will to solve problems. For years, we've been constantly reproducing problems by sweeping them under the carpet, transferring them to other institutions. We've all seen that we're not going to get anywhere by just reviewing things from the safety perspective, and we've started a solution process. We buried over 30,000 of our people. Millions of our people had to be displaced from their homeland. Thousands of villages have been evacuated, burned. Our plains, our mountains have been dehumanized. There have been thousands of unsolveds, atrocities, tortures. Our people have suffered a lot of sacrifices that you can't even imagine. But in spite of all these games, countertops, provocations, the people have never been confronted or brought; neither the Turks, nor the Kurds, nor the Turks, nor the Lazers, nor the Arabs, did they hold a grudge against the Turks, nor did they hold a grudge against the Turks. Therefore, there was no situation among the people that would undermine the brotherhood's law, no social dissolution or hatred in the country. Mistakes made in the past cannot and should not draw today's frame. The Turkish people, who have been treated as second-class citizens for many years, are now showing their desire and courage to solve their own problems with Kurdish, Arab, Arab, and Çerkek. Under the roof of this Parliament, there are no words left unspoken about this matter. Now is the time for action. Isn't it time to put your words to practice? On this stand, the scribes spoke many words about the problem, concerning the region. As people living in the region, we say enough is enough! Let us shoulder this solution, this peace, this peace, and support. Others can't come and solve problems inside our house, and no one else can. Let's show ourselves the will to solve our own problems before we have to ask anyone to help us. I truly believe that everyone who is under the roof of this Parliament wants the region to be liberated and democratized, and that's how it works, because each of us has been seriously affected by this problem, and we've paid for it in some way. Do we no longer deserve to live in a better, more democratic, more living country in Turkey, where free individuals can live equally, where rights and law are superior? AS AK PARTY, we've made this problem our problem. In our Party Charter, our government programmes, and our election statements, we have demonstrated the will to resolve this problem, and we have shared our solution proposals with our nation. People have always supported this solution with more support in each election, side by side and behind it. Serious steps have been taken today towards Turkey's democratisation, normalisation from the day the EC PARTY came to power; rejection, denial, assimilation policies have been terminated. This was a paradigm change in Turkey, and that will was shared with the community, and the public gave that support. We've extended individual rights and freedoms in these processes.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0114par0280	You're talking about plus one minute, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0113par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. We've always had the disadvantage of being a ruling MP. Thank you very much, and I'll take a minute today. We've taken the democratic steps, we've made a lot of constitutional, legal regulations, we've removed the barriers to the native language. We can think of a lot more, but I would like to thank everyone who's contributed to this process of solutions that we've really cared about, and the blood has been in place for almost two years. I want to thank all those who have contributed under this House of Parliament, who have contributed positively to this law, who have brought criticism, as a people of the region. Because for over 40 years, we haven't been able to see or experience a normal environment. Spring has come to the mountains, spring has come to our plains, spring has come to our cities now to observe the law of brotherhood. On this occasion, I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0115par0286	Thank you. Congressmans, we will now complete the question-answer process. Five minutes for questions, five for the Minister to answer. I promise the MPs who enter the system in a row: Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0116par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, some of the members of the terrorist organization appeared in some media organs yesterday. One of these statements is: "We will call the members of the PKK and the TKK to the Kandil in Turkey, and we will hold consultations. Who are these people in which PKK is directly in contact with the government? Is there such a connection to your person? Have you been called to a meeting in the Kandil, or have any of the cabinet members been summoned? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0117par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Prime Minister Erdogan said we would not sit at the agreement table with the PKK of the illegal terrorist organization. Then who's assigned the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister and the Undersecretary of the MIT to negotiate? On whose behalf did they make these calls? My second question is, again, if terrorist leader Abdullah Ocalan had been removed from the Imran (Imran) in which he had been in the process, who did he meet with, if he had attended any meetings? My third question: were the PKK militants taken by private aircraft from Kandil to Oslo? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0118par0297	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0119par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors Chief Inspectorate, as far as the wiretaps in many of Turkey's provinces -- our guess is that by writing to the presidents of the Republican People's Party through prosecutors, he wants the phone numbers, names, surnames of the mayors and districts. It turns out that the mayors of districts and districts, probably from the past period, and from March 1/1/2010 in history, and from March 31st 2014, apparently, the phone calls of the mayors and mayors of the county were illegally tapped. There's some hesitation about it, possibly an investigation is being conducted. Do you know anything about that? As a result of this ongoing investigation, what do you think you're going to do about the call of the main opposition party's mayors and mayors' phones being overheard unofficially, and what do you think? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0120par0301	Mr. Topcu...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0121par0302	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to ask you a question by referring to yesterday's report. Yesterday, there were reports that 21 university students went up the mountain to join the PKK in particular. So, with all of this, given that there's already been one, we'd like to ask again where these policies are going. In particular, today, we'd like to ask you again what is the purpose of the solution package we're meeting here today. My second question is: Do you plan to create a new policy for our Turkmen brothers at Tuzhurmatu, for the Turks in Mosul? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0122par0306	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0123par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. What are the number of government officers, such as soldiers, police, teachers, health staff, who have been killed by the PKK terror organization? Have the killers of our martyrs been identified and captured? What are the numbers of the undetectable and the uncatchable? Before this law was brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has there been talks with the families of martyrs and the organizations founded by veterans? Have their views, their thoughts been learned? My second question is: PKK terrorist organisation threatens, kills rangers in various ways in the east and southeast. As a government, what measures have been taken to protect security forces, guards and families from the attacks of the terrorist organization? Are there rangers who have been kidnapped by the PKK who haven't been released? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0124par0311	Dear Ancestor...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0125par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are steps that must be taken in the areas of political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological, culture, human rights, security and disarmament for the current process to progress, as well as in the text of the law. Is there an agenda and a calendar the government has taken on this issue? Is there any information they can give to the public about what needs to be done in the short, medium, and long term?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0124par0314	Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, opinions are being presented on certain statements. Of course, we took only the nation to deal with it as we resolved the matter and presented the will to resolve it and developed various solutions in this field. People, 76 million with Kurdish, 76 million with this problem, we've actually done the math on how to solve this problem in the most reasonable and peaceful ways that could have hurt people's lives and their houses and their pockets in the last 30 years. What's really happening here is to eliminate the causes that lead to these developments, because the question is that we're going to do it in the wrong place, without being properly identified, with all of its dimensions, social, political, economic, historical, ideological, all of the factors that we're going to do without reviewing them all together, without going through them in a detailed way. In fact, when we properly analyze the reasons for the emergence of the matter, then we'll solve the problem much easier. Here's the thing: I really think we should do a serious study of whether or not these are a cause or a consequence in all the questions of some of our valued lawmakers. We all know that many of these are actually results, that they're a byproduct, that they're a complication, and that with the solution proposals that have been developed so far, this actually creates more problems than solutions. The people who live in the East and Southeast Anatolia region need to be evaluated in detail with a matter that our entire nation well knows and evaluates, for some reason in other parts of Turkey, their villages have been burned down or avoided by violence, terror, and somehow from its negative effects. We all know that in the past struggles with terrorism, violence, or PKK, the projects that were intended to eliminate it were actually far from solving the problem altogether, rather than creating new problems because blood continued to flow because people continued to climb the mountain.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0126par0320	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions. Everyone knows that if all these problems were solved correctly, people wouldn't go to the mountain, they wouldn't go to the mountain, they wouldn't go to the mountain. But we know...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0127par0322	They're still going up the mountain. Well, we're just trying to make sure no one goes up the mountain again. Let the people of the mountain come down, let's talk about problems in Turkey, in democracy, with a civil understanding, let's solve them.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0128par0324	What are you gonna do if you can't get it down? We have the means to resolve all these matters in peace. First, let's improve the language of peace, talk about peace, not war, not war.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0129par0326	You did it in Habur, in Habur. Because tens of thousands of children of this nation poured their blood into the ground for no reason, many more of them were hurt in prisons, many innocent people lost their lives in many attacks, mothers' hearts burned, fathers' hearts burned, furnaces burned. It's only possible with a healthy, accurate solution that we can do with mental and rational analysis, which we can develop. That's what the law brings. Thank you, Mr. President. He didn't answer the questions.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0130par0330	Thank you. There's one motion on item 6 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/941 We propose and propose that the Court of Ministers of Ministers shall be changed by the Council of Ministers in Article 6 of the Act No. 991. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Alim Iklüş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Özcan Yeniçeri Kemalettin Yılmaz Engin Alan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0131par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0130par0344	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kemalettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion, Deputy Afyon. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0132par0349	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the amendment motion we have made regarding the 6th Amendment, which is the executive clause of Act 629, to the End of Terror and Enhancing Social Integration. I salute your high council. Its name is good, but its essence is going to damage our uniter structure, damage our 1,000-year brotherhood, which will soon become the requirements of the Great Middle East Project, which Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has expressed in the Imralı logs, which will, unfortunately, be enforced by you AKP, CHP and HDP votes. Dear lawmakers, in 2002, there was zero, even a terror at the point of end. The PKK was in disarray and disarray. The Co-Chair of the Grand Middle East Project, which is under the AKP's power, and the political subcontractor in the region, the Great Middle East Project's armed subcontracted subcontractor in the region, saved, fed, grew, compromised, pampered; negotiations are being carried out at the crossroads. The terrorist organisation is not only finding political grounds, it is preparing to move further. You gotta put your name right for once. It was said on various platforms, it was said by the Deputy Prime Minister, who was also responsible for the destruction: whatever you want to call it, the Kurdish issue, the southeast matter, the terrorism issue, but it must be resolved. Dear lawmakers, these three issues are very separate. That kind of identification is the wrong button on the shirt. Because no one has a problem, no one has a problem with our people, whose native language is Kurdish. For a thousand years we have turned to the same giblah, and have given daughters, and have become neighbors, and we know very well the importance of neighboring in our high religion; and we have been in business, and we lie in sheep in Çanakkale, and we have given together the battle of Drill. The problem is more than the Kurdish problem, the problem of terrorism, even the PKK's terrorist organization. The PKK terror organization is not a zinhar representative for our citizens whose native language is Kurdish, nor can it be. Because he's been hurting them the most for 30 years. Terror must be prevented and the problem must be solved; the blood flowing must be stopped, the tears must be stopped, no one has any objection. In addition to eliminating the conditions that have brought out the terrorist organization, economic, social, cultural, and if necessary, terrorism is immediately removed from being our country's problem with armed measures. Because the armed subsidiary of the Great Middle East Project in our country, the PKK, is not only the problem of one region, but 76 million of our people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you must do nothing wrong. If you harm our 1,000-year-old brotherhood -- which you will -- with this law, you will -- if you damage the unitary structure of our country and the mystical boundaries of our country, if you set the stage for the brother fight -- which we see you're preparing -- you'd be very bad at our country, our nation, and you can't get rid of it. The future generations say to those who have wronged this country, "Woe be to you! With this law, the PKK will gain another position, become more spoiled, and continue to make new demands. In addition, there are two words left incomplete in the executive clause of this law, and if you add them, they will have four heads, just as the PKK would like them to be. These two words were incomplete, the words "Imam" and "Kandil" were incomplete. For you have decided together, and you shall walk together. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0133par0358	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0134par0360	Mr. President, I have to make a point. It happened here the other day. Sir, now that the Kurdish issue is being discussed, there's a very sexist approach to our brotherhood, our union: we took girls, we gave girls. I mean, that's a very wrong, disturbing description. The next time we take a girl from this stand, we give her a daughter. I ask and ask this great assembly not to use a sentence like this one.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0133par0363	It was a very accurate explanation and warning. Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on the 6th article of the bill, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the vote of Section 629's 6th Amendment be held in the form of an open vote. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Ismet Bigataman, Bursa? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to open the vote with the electronic device, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 6/9 of the Law Bill 629: [[x]] Before the vote of the entire bill, I will make a promise to the two MPs to state their opinion and the color of the game under Article 86 of the Civil Code. The first speaker to speak in Polish is Mr. Fatih Dualci, Van MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0135par0401	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge to show the color of my vote for the Ending of Terror 629 and Enhancing Social Integration Bill. I salute your high council. The AK PARTY governments have thus far eliminated all our country's problems one by one and worked very hard to solve them. He never ignored the problems and swept them under the carpet. He has constantly demonstrated a will for resolution and freedom. Turkey, together with the EC PARTY, is experiencing the most comprehensive democratic transformation and transformation process in history since 2002. In these processes, revolutionary steps have been taken and radical reforms that embrace the entire community, expand the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, strengthen citizens' belonging to the country and their trust in the state. Dear lawmakers, the positive psychological environment of these steps has pave the way for a paradigm change and a solution perspective in the fight against Turkey's ten-year past and the most important threat to society's peace and brotherhood. Thus, the issue of terrorism and the legitimate and democratic demands of citizens are separated, and a more sensitive approach to the problems of all communities has been adopted. In July 2009, the National Union and Brotherhood Project was launched to end terrorism and strengthen social peace and brotherhood. In the process, a free and dynamic debate has emerged in our country that allows us to face the problems of various communities and develop solutions. In late 2012, the process of resolving a stronger, democratic, freer, safe and peaceful Turkey was launched as a state policy. The final goal of the solution process is to consolidate unity and unity with the complete end of terrorism and the fulfillment of social integration. The solution process is to remove violence and the weapon; the process of taking on the word, thought and politics. Respected MPs, the Parliamentary Research Commission has been established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which aims to investigate the Social Peace Ways and evaluate the Solution Process, which I am also a member of. As a result of the eight-month work of our commission, the final report contains crucial assessments and suggestions that will shed light on the solution of the problem. Again, important regulations have been carried out in the context of the resolution process with various Laws in order to improve Basic Rights and Freedoms No. 2/3/2014, known as the Fourth Package of Democracy, which holds a very important place in the history of democratisation of our country. The first positive effect of the process is that the blood flow has stopped for nearly 19 months, so our citizens have lived in a safer, more peaceful country. Through the solution process, our country's eastern and Southeast regions in particular have begun to see normalisation that they've been missing for decades. Economics and tourism have begun to revive in the region, and the positive reflections of the normalisation environment have been much more felt in all areas of life. The success of the solution process will lead to Turkey's rapid economic development and development move. Once our country solves this fundamental problem, hopefully it will have a chance to channel all its power and dynamics into economic development. The solution process is a multidimensional process with different stages. Thus, the process may be involved in steps that must be taken in different stages. The solution process is currently under the legislation of the relevant institutions. At the coming point, it would be helpful to make different arrangements in terms of further progress in the process and strengthening the quality of state policy. The national quality of the solution process and the bill, which has been drafted so far in consideration of national and international experiences, aims to ensure a stronger legal basis for the solution process in our country. For these reasons, I say yes to this law, and ask that the law be good to our country, to our nation, and I salute your high council with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0136par0411	Thank you. Mardin MP Abdurrahim Akdağ will speak to you in a court of law.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0137par0414	How does that work, Mr. President? The same group is both against and against...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0136par0415	We've been through this a lot, you should know. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0138par0417	Mr. President, two people from the same party are speaking against Parliament law.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0136par0418	He speaks for himself. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0139par0420	Mr. President, I have made a promise to show the color of my vote on the Ending of Terror 629 and Enhancing Social Integration Bill. I've had my word against it, but I'll speak in favor. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0140par0421	That's what you'd look like.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0139par0422	Dear lawmakers, Aristotle has established a logical rule as a method of solving problems, one: accept your problem as it is. Two: don't accuse anyone. Three: Focus on the solution. Turkey has a Kurdish problem stemming from years of rejection, denial and assimilation policies. To solve this problem, it is essential to confront the problem and define it as accurately as possible by making a healthy diagnosis. The Kurdish problem is essentially an identity problem, but it is also a political, economic, social and human problem. We are facing a problem that mortgages Turkey's future. This country has paid a financial price of 40,000 lives, $300 billion. 3,500 villages have been evacuated, thousands of our people have been sacrificed in cold blood. The Kurdish problem is a regional problem by nature. Since the Kurdish population is not limited to Turkey, the problem has an international dimension. Like the majority of Turks, the majority of Kurds do not want their children to die. The future vision of the majority of Kurds is to live in peace, a strong Turkey, where his identity is respected. Members of parliament, the EC PARTY has demonstrated the will to resolve a problem that no political party has dared to address over the years. Killing doesn't solve the problem, security, polarizing, and tension-enhancing policies haven't solved the problem. The society has given strong support to efforts to resolve the problem. The silence of weapons, the peace, the strengthening of social integration, represents a common conscience, strongly supported by everyone. If the fire of Nemrod is not extinguished, a burning fire will continue to burn us all. I want to point out a serious threat that someone wants to expose the brotherly conflict. It's a pleasure not to let intelligent Turks and Kurds fall into such a disgusting pit. My hope for a solution is more alive than ever today. Violence is no longer a means of seeking rights on a surface where it can be talked about. It is now the duty of reason, reason, and common sense to try nonviolent solutions. We're not looking for land-based, we're looking for a human-based solution. Deputies, Turkish-Kurd, Alevi-Sunni, Muslim-gayrimal definitions and tensions have been seen in the country's conflict points through external altars. Internal and external interests have set up all kinds of games to prevent this issue from being solved in peaceful, democratic ways, and they've had a huge runt of conflict and bloodshed. The interest of blood and violence feeds the weapons industry. This is less prosperity, less happiness, and more blood and tears for those living in Turkey. Islam is the most important binding force. It is fortunate that Turks and Kurds are Muslims. The only ground for a solution is politics, under this lofty roof, under which the will of the people is reflected. Five hundred years ago, yes, five hundred years ago, when Yavuz Sultan Selim and Idris-i Bitli came together on the basis of unity and brotherhood, they directed history. Why don't we do this today? This law constitutes the legal basis for peace. I'll vote yes. O children of Noah, and of Abraham, the children of Saladin, and of the children of Fatih. You hold within yourselves the potential of making history together. Yunus Emre, Feqiye Teyran, Fuzulî, Melaye Cirî, Sheikh Galip, Sheikh Ahmed Hani are the stars of the same climate, the same knowledge basin. Mr. President, dear friends, at first, as long as our people don't die, even if it's poison, I'll drink to our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to Mr. Bashir Atalay, our Vice Prime Minister, thank all those who have worked in this peace process...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0141par0435	Mr. Akdağ, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0139par0436	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0141par0438	I have to remind you and all my fellow lawmakers that you wanted a word against me, that you said you were in favor of the color of your vote. It's not right to create situations like this, it's not nice. I'd like to rephrase. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on the entire bill, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the full vote of the 629-line bill be held in the form of an open vote. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Edip Semih Yalçın, Gaziantep? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the end of terrorism and the Enhancing of Social Integration. ▪ Number of votes used: 274 [[x]] Congressmans, the bill has been approved and legalized; for the best. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to make a thank-you speech, but I was going to make a promise to Mr. Tanal. We've come so far, let's not be unfair, so I thought about making a promise about two hours ago, so let's not be unfair. Here you go. One minute from your position.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0142par0482	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, with the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Labour and Social Security among us right now, I wish him well, first of all, because of the surgery that the Minister of Labour and Social Security has had. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, six hours a day in Sanliurfa, the electricity is being cut regularly, the cotton that the people have planted is on fire because of thirst. For this reason, I first propose a peace with the Şanlıurfa by finding the solutions and solutions necessary to ensure that there will be no constant blackouts in Şanlıurfa. The second is for the Minister of Health: At Şanlıurfa, at the children's hospital and at the maternity hospital, our people cannot find a bed to sleep in. Indeed, there is a great deal of trouble in that sense. I want you to take care of the hospitals in Şanlıurfa. Concerning the Interior Minister: there are no district parking structures for zoning fees collected by Şanlıurfa Municipality, and the area parking structures are missing in Şanlıurfa. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the attention of our three ministries.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit03spe0143par0488	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. I kept you waiting for three hours, and thank you for that, for waiting. Mr. Secretary, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, honored members of the High Assembly, I salute you all in this month of grace and blessing. Mr. Secretary, your time is five minutes. Thank you very much. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are becoming normal, Turkey is becoming civil, Turkey is becoming democratic, Turkey is moving from the agenda of terrorism and violence to the agenda of peace and tolerance. Dear members of the High Assembly, in this historic session, you have demonstrated the desire, the desire, the desire, and the determination of peace, to resolve a problem that has been pooled and mixed with this law for years and violence, our lives, our pockets, our hearts, our home. Terror and violence, oppression and rejection, the concepts that build power over denial will be defeated, defeated in the face of democracy. The winner of this struggle is civil understanding, and the winner of this struggle is our entire nation. We all know that our government has a sincere and serious view of the solution to this problem and its solution to its solution, its Kurdish (Kurdish) and Turkish (Turkish), is our nation's nation's entire nation's entire nation, and our nation's efforts in this matter are eagerly awaiting progress. A few weeks ago, there was a visit here from the mothers who had gone to the mountain with their children being deceived or kidnapped or on their own desires. Those mothers -- among them mothers who had already lost their children or children in prison -- said that when they were told about this bill of framework laws that had just been voted and accepted, a mother said: "You have eased the fire of my heart, my heart has cooled off from this news. I see it as good news, and I consider it an important step towards the solution process, and in the comfort of it, I am leaving this hall, and I am returning to Diyarbakır. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this framework will be a means of unity, unity, and strengthening the property bonds of citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Contrary to some opinions, it's not a demolition, it's a building law. It's the effort of building, to actually make a heart; it's the building of unity and unity, it's the building of brotherhood. We've suffered a lot, folks, and we don't want to suffer anymore. As the Turkish Grand National Assembly, we represent the will as a civilian political institution, and as a nation, we demonstrate this determination as representatives of the nation; it is very important for him. I thank the Republican People's Party Group and its members, the People's Democratic Party Group and its members, who have expressed their open support as this framework is discussed. I also want to thank the National Party for its contribution to opposition to its members. I'll only sing one chapter from a poem by Cait Sitký Tarancı. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm not going to read them all. No trouble at first, no longing at heart, Let there be an end to the brotherly quarrel. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and put to your votes: The following proposal was approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Thursday (10/07/2014). Mihrimah Belma Line Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly shall continue its work until Thursday (July 10th 2014) the meeting of the Constitution and Proposals of Law and the conclusion of the vote for the transfer of the Articles of Law on 615, which is part of the Commission's Articles. It has been suggested that it not meet on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, Friday (July 11th), 12, 13th and 14th 2014, which are agreed to meet outside of the week's working days. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit04spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs; the establishment of the head of the National Health Institutes of Turkey; and with the amendment of some Laws and Laws under the Law, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 615 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after the negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to complete and transfer to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Members of parliament, there is a motion that all negotiations of the bill be held in closed session, and I read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that all of the talks of Bill 615 should be closed according to Article 70 of the Civil Code. The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go out. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and sworn officers remain in the hall...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit04spe0144par0019	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-10sit04spe0143par0020	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit05spe0143par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the procedure of the motion to hold talks on all 615 rows, there was not enough decision in the vote of the sworn officers to remain in the hall. Now, I'm going to repeat the vote, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who have agreed to let the sworn officers stay in the hall... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-10sit06spe0143par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the procedure of the motion to hold talks on all 615 rows, the decision was not enough in either vote on whether the sworn officers should remain in the hall. Now, I'm going to repeat the vote, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (July 15th) to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with the bill and proposals. I'm closing the assembly at 00, so have a good week, and have a good day.
