tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we'll start negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes (Ihsan Özkes) who wants to speak on the occasion of Kutlu Birth Week. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs understand the 1443rd anniversary of the blessed birth of our beloved Prophet, the greatest, most perfect of all humans. O Muhammad, We have not sent you except as a mercy to the worlds. Our beloved Prophet does not belong to any party, or to any nation, or to any nation. It is a mercy to the worlds. Muhammad would want the truth to remain true, even if it were against him. He was trusted and trusted. He was called "Muhammadul" for sure. Straight ahead. Religion is sincerity. He has commanded it. The Muslim does not lie, the Muslim does not lie. He considers it a sign of hypocrisy to lie, and to betray trust, and to break his promise. Let not the fast and the prayer of those who lie when they speak, and betray the trust, and refrain from devouring unlawful things while they are in power, deceive you. Congressmans, our beloved Prophet has come into this world poor, gone poor. He had no fortune to inherit. He left neither a dinar, nor a dirham, nor a camel. He lived poor, but he enriched his people. And it is not of us that hath eaten, when his neighbour was hungry. And he commanded. When her beloved daughter Fatima, whose hands had been sore with the mill, and had been moved with water, asked for the treasure of the state, she said, "My daughter, the poor and the orphans have more rights." She did not approve of this request. He wanted the rulers to think of his people before his family did. He has commanded that God will never interfere with His servant. People, if I hit one of you on the back, here's my back, let him hit me on the back. If I've insulted or insulted one of you, then here's my honor and dignity to repay you. If I took someone's property, that's what I'm made of. Indeed, the noblest among you in my presence is he who asks for what is rightfully his. He has enjoined it. He saw a profit for more than government officials' salary as an unfair gain and theft, and said that the gifts received belonged to the treasure. As for him who steals wealth, he does not pray for it. He has reported that he who steals a cardigan from the loot cannot be a martyr, even if he dies in battle. Ladies and gentlemen, the Holy Prophet has a high moral code, a fine example of his morality. For he has been sent to complete good morality. The idea of so - called piety devoid of morality destroys both religion and society fundamentally. There is no room for corruption, theft, persecution, and injustice in the fine morality of our beloved Prophet. Where there's no justice, there's no morality, there's no morality, there's no justice. Morality and justice are the essentials of our great religion. Muhammad saw silence in the face of injustice as a mute devil. Those who were before you were destroyed because they were unjust, and they did not punish the common people. I swear to God, I would punish my daughter Fatima, even though she was a thief. She said so. If no one whom God has given himself the rule of a society does not have the same heart as all the people, he cannot even smell heaven. He has commanded it. He who finds his kinsmen better than him, and brings them on a mission out of love for him, will not be able to smell heaven. He has commanded it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I congratulate you all on the Happy Birth Week of the beloved Muhammad, and salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mud MP Demir Çelik, who asked to be spoken on charges of unlawful conduct in the March 30th local elections. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by welcoming you all with respect and love. Yes, as you all know, 17 days ago, we passed the March 30, 2014 local elections. The election, first of all, was meaningful and valuable that very few states were being made in a process of evolving the world from a strict decentralisation state to a decentralisation state. It was meaningful and valuable because the locals were being built at a point of transition where they could be able to govern themselves by the principle of location. However, the local election was not approached by an approach and mentality that was consistent with the historicality of the election. It was expected that local elections would succeed and serve power alone. The choice was taken care of in the way that it served its ruling focus, its sovereign understanding. Therefore, the expected justice of the election, equal representation of the election, egalitarian representation of the election, has not been registered, has not been exposed. Yes, the election, first of all, is a key parameter in the democratic law state, a political action that should be taken care of in the sense that the public will is giving its representatives the opportunity to govern itself, but it has been deprived of its ability, because we have organised and organised it to serve the sovereign and ruling understanding under political guardianship. Since the March 30th 2014 elections did not pass political custody as well as in every election, the governors had served as the mayors of the ruling district, the governors as the mayors of power, and they had the right to employ civil and military bureaucracy as a military militant in that sense. The social aid foundation, which is entitled to the poor, the victim, the oppressed, and the governed, has been converted into the mechanisms of voting, buying votes, not enough -- political, economic, social, cultural operations aimed at manipulating the will of the people, transforming the will of the people. It is not enough, but the will of the people who enter the ark is to be taken away. The fact that hundreds, thousands of ballots, sealed behind it, are found in the dumpsters of wild garbage collections, has been revealed in Ceylanpınar, but there is no need to cancel the Ceylanpinar elections. When the ruling party won the election by 11 votes in Taşlıçay, which has been identified as voting by wet signatures of 17 mentally disabled persons, the Supreme Election Board did not need to cancel the Taşlıçay elections. What concrete evidence is required that by acting on what concrete evidence, these elections can't be annulled? Is there anything more concrete evidence than an election where the dead are signed, used as a game instead of the dead? Oh, no. But when it comes to Turkey, rather than concrete and solid evidence, the election was not fair in Turkey, where there was concern, doubt, fear, and political custody, in which sense the judiciary, law was shaped. See, the ballot bags entrusted to the County Election Board in Ağrı have been torn, the ballot bags have been cast more votes than they should have been to the ruling party, a vote under the vote that should have been in the opposition party, which had been vaporized; and the vote that needed to be in the independent vote had been vaporized. Who does it, how does it, how does it get there? The questions remain unanswered, with no answer, and the people's will, as if smuggling goods from the fire, unfortunately, has been condemned. The election has not been fair, has not been equitable, and since it is not democratic, it will continue to be open for days, months, years, to debate, to occupy the agenda, he says, with respect.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0005par0032	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The third non-responsive statement is from Diyarbakır MP Friday (Friday) who wants to speak on the occasion of Kutlu Birth Week. Here you go, Mr. Heartfelt.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0006par0037	Mr. President, we are here on the Happy Birth Week of our Lord Muhammad (SAV) sent as a mercy to the worlds. I wish to share with you some of the part of the Veda Hutbesi, which, in 632, was read by the prophet Muhammaden abdûhu and Yasulullah, who invited the Prophet to give the order of God to humanity: The All-beneficent, the All-laudable, the All-laudable, praise Him, and seek His help. Whomever God guides, none can lead him astray. And whomsoever He sendeth astray, for him there is no guide. And I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the One, the Irresistible, and that there is no partner or partner. And I testify that Muhammad is his servant and his messenger. O people, pay heed to what I say. I don't know, maybe I won't be able to meet you here again after this year. Blessed is your city, and blessed is your lives, and your possessions, and your virtues, as holy is your present day, and blessed is this month. O my people, surely you will meet your Lord. He will question you concerning what you used to do. And do not turn back from me to old perversity, and do not strike each other's necks. Let those who are here deliver this will to those who do not. It may be that whoever is found will be able to get them to someone who understands them better. O my people! Lo! the customs of ignorance are removed, and they are under my feet. O people, Satan has despaired of worshipping him in your land. But if you obey him in your own affairs, it will please him. Avoid them in order to protect your religion. People, I advise you to be wary of God in this matter. You have a right over women, and you have a right over women. Believers, I entrust you with two trusts, and you will not go astray until you have followed them. These are the rites of God's book, the Qur'an and the Prophet. Believers, listen to what I say and remember what is best for you. He is the brother of Muslim Muslims, and all Muslims are brothers. Neither the blood of a Muslim brother nor his property is lawful. Unless he gives his wealth willingly. O mankind! O mankind, your Lord is One, and your father is One. You are all Adam's children. And Adam is of dust. The Arab has no superiority over the non-Arab, nor the non-Arab over the Arab, but the red has no superiority over the black, and the black has no superiority over the red. Honour is only in piety, and fear Allah. The noblest of you in the sight of God is the most godfearing of you. And if a black slave was appointed over you as a chief, and he directs you by Allah's Book, then listen to him and obey him. No one can be charged with anything but his own crime. It is necessary to understand, to tell, and to live. If all hearts speak of the prophet, love, peace, brotherhood, peace will prevail in this geography. In the east and west of this land is the common value of every color and language, every sect. It is the most important common value that brings us all together, reminding us that one of us is not different from the other, that we all have equal rights around human dignity. May Allah guide the way of His Messenger, the one who prays, not he who opens his hand and curses them when he is stoned by his own people. Happy Birth Week, I ask that tolerance and love be made to prevail, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you. We, the Court, congratulate the Happy Birth Week of the Islamic world, wish it to bring brotherhood and peace to all mankind. At the same time, we honor and cherish all our martyrs in the week of the Martyrs. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Here you go. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country on April 9, 2014 and its 68th resolution by the delegation of the French-Turkey Inter-National Friendship Group. The visit of the delegation to our country, dated 28/3/1990, and 3620 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the 7th Amendment on the Order of Foreign Relations In accordance with the clause, it is presented to the General Assembly's information. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the problems and solutions of mobile and temporary female agricultural workers. In addition to territorial farmers in Turkey, the shrinking and disintegration of agricultural businesses for various reasons has kept many businesses from being self-sufficient. Small lands or territorial families who are unable to make sufficient income from their own agricultural enterprises and the villagers who have been evacuated from their villages are looking for jobs, traveling and/or temporary jobs in areas with more jobs to provide for them in order to avoid their own farmland. The presence of many traveling and temporary (dayly) farm workers in Turkey, the fact that they have many social, economic and working problems in their villages and areas where they go to work, makes it necessary to focus on the problems of these workers. In mobile farming, the women's group is of particular importance both in living conditions and in domestic roles. Travelling women's farm workers in the condition of working as a family take on much of the workload where they go. After exhausting farming, female workers also carry out tasks such as cooking, cleaning, child maintenance, water supply in terms of household and family life. The roles of women in mobile and temporary status workers in agricultural production are limited to their efforts. Since all their income is earned in return for labour, the place where the labor will be used is determined by the landowner, and the rules set out by the landowner to do all the work. Traveling women's agricultural workers' working hours vary from region to region and are mostly organised according to tradition and customs. Usually, it takes time from sunrise to sunset. Despite their working hours and circumstances, their wages are lower than others. Depending on the low price, the demand to collect the fee and the need to eat low, on the other hand, these workers are not well-fed due to the underprivileged cooking conditions. Working families also provide their accommodations using the branches of trees, plastic cloths, cloths, and surrounding herbs that they provide. The lack of bathrooms, baths, and washing facilities also pose problems for cleaning and health. In order to improve the working conditions of mobile agricultural workers and care in the areas of employment safety, the International Labour Organization (ILO) must be immediately taken to comply with the basics of the Agricultural Health and Safety Applying Law, women's employment, environmental and hygiene conditions, nutrition and housing. This is also a requirement of Turkey's commitments to the fair working conditions and a fair wage of the European Social Condition. The problem of social security is the most important of current problems. These workers need social security. A major problem that threatens human life in mobile farming is transportation to workplaces. For this, studies must be carried out by local governments to ensure transportation costs. Traveling and temporary agricultural work that constitutes one of Turkey's poorest groups of people, and especially the female individuals of this group are free of human conditions and are the most oppressed. Because these women are far from entering the modern social structure and under the influence of traditional society. It is important to explore living and working conditions, problems and solutions for female agricultural workers who are under the pressure of income and traditional community relations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On Saturday, we propose and establish a Parliamental inquiry in order to address the issues of their mothers in custody, to be thrown into acid wells, tortured to death in police stations, to find out for certain the fate of their children and relatives who were buried in mass graves, and to answer the demands of those responsible. [[Kars]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Saturday's search for justice that hasn't been answered in 17 years is the most concrete example of Turkey's lack of courage to face its past. Saturday Mothers, who first sought justice in 1995, have been on watch for years for the truth to come out. They're asking about the fate of their children, their relatives, who are missing as a result of the state's unresolved policy on the Kurdish problem. This resistance is also the most important example of civil disobedience. Last week, they tried to make their voice known to the government for the 374th time. However, the search for justice that has been going on for 17 years has still not been answered. They have been beaten repeatedly since their first sit-in, May 27, 1995. Most of the time, they were confronted by the security forces' obstructions. The mothers who lost their children, their relatives, whose hearts were wounded, were dragged to the ground by law enforcement forces. They were attacked by police dogs. They were tried to be silenced by raids, detentions and attacks. Mothers who used their most democratic rights to find out the fate of their children, spouses, relatives, sought justice in the squares. As the Kurdish problem remained unresolved, new ones were added to unsolved murders, disappearances in custody, tortures and deaths. With new missing relatives who supported them, their numbers grew more and more. The discovery of acid wells, mass graves, even if there was a new hope for them, the fact that the excavations were stopped and hidden from public opinion did not change the situation. In fact, the outcome of the losses is in the public archives, and there are those responsible. It's doubtful that the commission for unsolved murders will answer the mothers' screams. Therefore, a new and original commission must be set up to address their mother's problems on Saturday. Saturday Mothers are one of the most tragic consequences of unresolving the Kurdish problem. Their children and relatives were slaughtered because they were Kurds or because they favour democratic solutions to the Kurdish problem. This democratic response was not only ignored by the state because it was directly linked to the Kurdish problem, but was very consciously ignored because it would be a vital step in Turkey's process of democratisation. In particular, during the 1990s, the perception that the Kurdish problem was a complete security problem was officially accepted. This adoption has started a massacre against those demanding democracy, rights and justice. Thousands of civilians, journalists, young women, women, students, politicians were lost by official government instructions. They were buried in mass graves and acid wells. The confessions to reveal the fate of the lost have been ignored by the government. The clues have been swept away. Because of the government's open obstructions, the consequences of the losses can't be learned. Saturday, their mother's resistance continues to open state archives to inform on all losses and bring the responsible to justice. The government is unable to show a serious approach to the issue and a consistent stance, except for a few statements to save the day. Mothers are determined to make their voices heard despite all their insensitivity. On Saturday, the House must serve to resolve their mother's problems. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to set up a parliamentary research commission to address the problem and find a solution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems of street children, prevent numerical increases, and take the necessary measures necessary for their rehabilitation, we respectfully submit our Constitutional Charter, 98, 104, 105, and 105, in accordance with the Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] [[Yozgat]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Lug]] [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Kütahya]] [[Scholarship]] 18) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 19) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 21) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] The term "street children" is often considered a term for identifying children who live on the streets, but is used for all children who live their lives outside adult supervision, although they are at a young age. The problem of street children in Turkey is becoming a more serious problem because of increasing cultural incompatibility and broken families, along with immigration, rapid urbanization, inequality in the revenue distribution. The number of street children is increasing year after year, and the problems associated with it have grown to significant levels over time. Street children are among the most prominent children in Turkey who need special protection measures. All of these children are entitled to protection, education and rehabilitation under the Convention on Children's Rights, approved by Turkey in 1994. The majority of these children are between 6 and 17 years of age, mostly men, children who are at risk of being expelled or expelled from school and may also be sexually abused or addicted to drugs. Although some of these children who live outside the parks, often in abandoned buildings, bus stations, or train stations, sleep in their own homes, you need to be a child, and they live with the risks of adult obligations and life. They don't go to school, they don't get health care, food supplies are their own responsibilities to feed them, and their safety is always at stake, the question is the uncertainty of the future for them. Although some of their families may have passed away, some may have been abandoned by their families or left their family because they were abused by their family. They're often ignored for economic, political reasons. Because they don't have economic powers, and they don't often vote. It's usually the term for a kid in a news article on the third page of the newspaper, "street boy." The issue of street children is one of the many-directed issues that needs to be dealt with, as well as preventive work for endangered groups, as well as special protection measures to bring into society those who have gone on probation and out of control. The overall purpose of the study is to examine the necessary measures for the rehabilitation of the negatives of street children who risk their lives for themselves and for the environment, which are a social reality. 1) The detection of the causes and family structures that drive children to live on the street, 2) The detection of living conditions, education and health levels of street children, 3) How many cases of criminal activity in the past five years (as victims or perpetrators) are involved in the study of the children of the streets, 4) Finding the level of information on street children's social rights and right-seeking processes 5) The detection of measures that can be taken by working between disciplines. It's been presented to your knowledge. The motions for parliamentary research will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, on April 23, there is a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors for the special merger of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, which I shall have to read and process and vote on. Turkey's Grand National Assembly's 94th anniversary and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, a private meeting of the General Assembly for the significance and significance of the day is held on Wednesday (April 23rd 2014). The meeting at 00 was deemed appropriate for the leaders of political party groups and the leader of the non-group political party to be promised for ten minutes and to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly at a meeting held by the Council on Wednesday (16/04/2014) of other issues not discussed in this merger. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kozar has been nominated for one membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which was idle in the petition commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the negotiations of Çankırı MP İdris Şahin and Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, who were in the 3rd place, where we left to discuss the State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Proposal and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, the 4th article in the first chapter of the proposal, which was considered a fundamental law, according to Article 91 of the Civil Code, was adopted in yesterday's merger. We will now begin the negotiations of Article 5 of the Fifth Amendment. There are four motions on the 5th article. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. I'm going to make a separate promise to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their alibis. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence and National Intelligence Agency Act 563 is currently in session. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Ahmet Duran Bulut Seyfettin Yılmaz Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Longırmek Bulent Belen The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Gülser Yıldırım Halil Aksoy Abdullah Levent Tüzel Ertuğul Furçı The signatures of the other motion are: Osman Love of Nurettin Canikli Bak Yilmaz Tunç Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bünyamin Özbek Hakançoğlu Ramadan Can Tevfik Ziyaeddin Akbulut Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0008par0270	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0271	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0009par0272	We agree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0273	İstanbul MP Levent Tüzel will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0010par0274	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary said we agree. But?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0275	Yeah, well, the AK PARTY has one motion.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0010par0276	But no, to the last reading motion...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0277	Since it's the same thing, I'll make a promise to everyone in turn.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0010par0278	Okay.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0007par0279	Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0011par0280	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I offer my opinion on the law proposal of the National Intelligence Agency, I'd like to make a brief statement about the problems of our working class. The other day, a fellow worker named Selçuk Belt was killed again in the Bayyard of Istanbul. In the same way, the struggle of the Greif workers in Istanbul, Esenyurt, who have been fighting for 60 days for rights and debts, has been suppressed by police terrorism and the employer is still resisting surrendering his rights. And finally, again, I salute the struggles of the workers who came to Ankara to defend the plants, to oppose the privatisation of the plants from Mugla Yahlan, who were blocked from their march, TES-İS-Ş and MADEN-İST member Yaken. On the way to May 1st Labor Day, I salute the working class that will fight the work killings, the firings, the union bans, the subcontractor work, the labor, the freedom, the peace, the struggle of brotherhood. Dear lawmakers, the place of the MIT, the National Intelligence Agency in the history of the republic, when it is considered its role in the state administration, is clearly brought to this proposal by further strengthening the functioning of the antidemocratic state structure, and therefore we are opposed to the proposal. The MIT has been found in our memory as an institution of conspiracies, provocations against the people, against democracy, freedom, rights of the people. The MIT refers to the coups, political assassinations, the May 1st 77 massacre, Susurluk, the history of the bloody and dark state intelligence, and you know its role in the recent explosion that killed 53 of our citizens in Reyhanlı -- or the role of 34 Kurdish people in Roboski, and ultimately the role of the political assassination in Paris -- is not being accounted for. So, government, what does the Prime Minister want to do, what does he want to do, where does he want to go? As you know, with this arrangement, in the foreign operations, it's an increase in the authority of the MIT, a legal cover for it, everyone's resting on it, but once on the MIT, everyone's being listened to, no one's safe, and an organization like this is being set up, with an immunity suit, an immunity armor to the agency, its servants, its security, its information from everyone, and it doesn't need anyone to answer to it, it's an organization like this. As long as this is brought to the attention, when we look at this period, the government and the Prime Minister, to digest the forces he claims to be involved in conspiracy, coup, espionage, it is a pity that there is such a contrast to a institution that has been engaged in such activities as plots, counters, provocations, and crises. It would be wrong to use it as a legal guarantee for the Imralı talks against the Kurdish peace demands in the Kurdish issue, as the newspapers have written or, as the public has shown, for its name's sake. However, the Prime Minister is seeking a mechanism of a despotic government, a government of intelligence, a government of his bat, which will actually be seeking, in need, and, you know, to build an intelligence agency, just like those in opposition and studies against him in Germany, Germany of the Nazi era, and to form such a regime. As you know, the public is being oppressed and terrorized by speaking in the squares, but now the mechanisms are being created. The National Intelligence Agency must answer to the public regarding crimes in its history. The accounts of Reyhanlı, Roboski, May 1, 77, and the war scenarios that were recorded in the records must be given. The national security must not be taken behind the concepts. We're against the offer. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0012par0293	In connection with the same motion, the other speaker is Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0013par0296	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 5th amendment of the current MIT Act. I salute you all. MIT is an institution where the state mind is preserved. The MIT is, unfortunately, trying to become someone's backyard, with the work done when it should be national and the nation should be an intelligence organization. Again, we are dealing with a situation in which Mr. Prime Minister and the government are also trying to design the National Intelligence Agency, an understanding that is aware of everything in Turkey and who is aware of everything. Now, dear lawmakers, where have we come from? What we're getting here is this: December 17th and December 25th, you know, Turkey has become the corruption of the century, and it's even historical corruption. It caused a trauma. Here's the idea: in the government's court and the Prime Minister's office: where did we come from, after 12 years, in an environment where we have so much control of the state? Where did this come from? The Prime Minister and his delegation, who saw themselves not being questioned, felt that they had no right to question themselves in any way, suffered a trauma between December 17th and December 25th. I now publicly declare that the Justice and Development Party Group and Mr. Prime Minister, together with their 30 March local elections, on December 17th and December 25th, the corruption of the enemy was brought to the point that there was theft in the allegations, bribery, favouration, Prime Minister and ministers involved in the work, and that a matter in which many names close to the government were cleared and powered by the nation on March 30th. However, lawmakers, that is not the case. In no time in our nation's life has given us a bonus for theft, bribery and corruption, but our nation has come to a point where we have faced a perception management that has been completely governed by perception. And Mr. Prime Minister, especially with the press he's taken over... now I'm asking you... look, in Turkey's paper, it's close to 10°, it's the same headline, it's the same title, it's the same TV. Here's what happened: theft and corruption, as if it never happened in this country, and there was no theft or corruption. But what was done? There is a coup attempt against the national state, against the Republic of Turkey, against the Prime Minister. This has been spoken of for days, this has been explained. A government that stands in the way of a citizen's freedom of information, with his own Pravda, here, look, I'm telling you clearly, the newspapers we all know make the same headlines at the same point. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says: "We are good communicators, we are a good perception management. You're right, Deputy Prime Minister. You're right. A delegation such as yourself and you, in Turkey's agenda, unfortunately, has created a sense of a coup against the Prime Minister and this country. Our nation is confused at this point. Our nation is a sensitive nation at the point of no mistakes. Our people have a conscience, our people are fair, but at this point, he'll know he's been deceived. However, despite using all the facilities, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Government, you've activated the governors -- I've been in the field for two and a half months -- you've activated the trustees, you've activated the bureaucrats, you've used all the resources of the state, you've conducted perception management with all the media organs, but you've lost almost 2.5 million votes, and the National Movement Party has raised nearly 2.5 million votes. I mean, the citizen didn't clean up theft and corruption. I say this because my time is short: You cannot pass it by the MIT Law. I hereby declare that those who steal and corrupt will surely answer. You may take over the courts today, but in court, those who lay their hands on that poor man's property will surely answer. On this day of Happy Birth Week, we will call it Amen. And whoever eats of the forbidden - He will surely pay for it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0014par0305	Erzincan MP Muharrem Ik will be speaking on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0015par0308	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this 5th article is a purely reflective of the AKP mentality. He's not the one to be hired so you can smell him so you know what's going on. And since you won't know if he's from the AKP, it's brought in. There's a possibility that the people hired are CHP people, there's a possibility that they're from the BDP; there's a possibility they're from BDP; there's a possibility they're from Alevi, there's a possibility they're Kurds, or they're disguised as parallel states, and they're infiltrated. We see this material as a substance brought to determine who would be hired and to lay them off in a more comfortable manner. Of course, when they're laid off, when they're fired, if they're fired, parallel structure or left-wingers, or MHP. If they go to court and go back to that court and do what they do in that court, you're in trouble. So, I see a substance like this brought in to crush the snake's head when it was little. The MIT Act was the last brick to lead the country to one man. We're going to run towards an authoritarian and totalitarian regime with HSYK, TİB and MIT laws. The HSYK Act, which you passed by spilling blood in parliament to cover the corruption of the prime minister's sons, the ministers who resigned, and the people close to him, to prevent them from being published and from being heard by the people, is the TİB Law, and the current MIT Law to destroy those who oppose it. This is the best defence offensive in the local elections. You tried to clean up these corruptiones in the chest, using their tactics, shouting, threatening, for 12 years, not being able to free yourself from being a victim, by making every institution a slave, by declaring those who refused to be a slave, by declaring them a traitor, by organized businesses, by bringing cats into the transformers, by trying to clear them, by trying to clear them. You think you're exonerated because of an undetermined YSK friendship and support, but to us, it's an independent jurisdiction. You're trying to make the fethullahists, the anti-government media, the opposition to the target, forget about the biggest corruption and bribery in history. That's not true. You're trying to distract the public and exonerate the four former ministers by saying such things as listening outside the law, being a spy, and being a parallel state. You couldn't prove that the phone calls were ίmontage, dublajί; nor did the ministers speak to Sarrafί, nor did they speak to Sarraf. Voice recordings are claimed to belong to the ministers, the Prime Minister, his son, the businessmen, as well as the legal wiretaps, but you're trying to suppress Twitter, YouTube, by suppressing the media by simply shouting, shouting, destroying justice; by driving judges, prosecutors, police; by shutting down Twitter, YouTube. If you believe the ministers are not taking bribes, why did the three ministers resign? Why did a minister say that everything has the Prime Minister's knowledge, instructions? Why was he dismissed if he had not taken bribes? In this country, I am a journalist, a writer, a thinker. Those who came out were published over the most secret secrets of the state, through the private views of the people for weeks. They fought for the chastity of men, honor, honor, family life, to eat and consume with an unsatisfactory appetite at the wolf's table, he says. So, I'm asking you here, if it's necessary, I'll lie in front of you. Is that what the former minister calls family life? $4.5 million from shoe boxes, which cost $6 million - honor, chastity, honor...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0016par0314	It's okay, it's okay.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0015par0315	Well, let's say it again. The millions of dollars and cash boxes found in the minister's son's house were appetizers at the wolves' table? Are they private when they can't prove it's a montage? Is that what the businessman who blasphemes to the mother of the nation says, chastity, chastity, honor? It's considered a wiretap on the government's top secret, but no one's talking about its contents. It's rude to listen, not to talk! The Undersecretary of MIT says, "I will send four men to Syria, and I will launch eight missiles on our side." I mean, I'd even put the country to war to save the government, to shut down corruption, he says. No one's paying for this, it's rude for him to listen! I'm afraid no one's paying for this claim either. The room where state secrets are spoken is bugged, and the authority is not questioned, but listening is considered one crime. If there's a state within the state, you built it together. Now we're wrong. You can't get away with it. Of course, I'm running out of time, but I also condemn the attack on my president here. I want to know what's behind this. I'll be a martyr. Come back one day, talk to me here, don't talk to me. Thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You didn't realize it, you passed too fast!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0017par0321	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0018par0322	Anyone who has anything to say will come.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0017par0323	Congressmans, please. We demand roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0019par0325	Request roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0017par0326	It's not over. On the final motion... Okay, I get it. You're gonna ask for the count, the roll call or the decision, but when it's time, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0019par0328	We're doing it for them, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0017par0329	Mr. Ziyaeddin Akbulut will speak on the other motion.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0020par0330	Is it the same thing?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0017par0331	They're all the same. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0021par0334	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, sir, we're discussing a very important proposal. Such an important change has not been made in the MIT Law since the 1980s. According to the conditions of the day, there are such national intelligence agencies in Europe, in America, all over the world, and they perform very important tasks. Such an offer has been made in accordance with the construction of those institutions, and our government agrees. It is intended to provide a new mandate for the MIT as a modern institution, which is completely well-intentioned, in accordance with the Constitution, which clearly determines the positions of the MIT. But, here, I see, since the proposal has been negotiated, especially the opposition speakers, who have no interest in this MIT Act, are criticising our government, our Prime Minister, over the MIT. It's a matter of information pollution. The MIT proposal is being put aside -- the government, the Prime Minister -- tapes, montages and blackmails are being discussed. My dear friends, for once this offer is a valid offer, and I thank those who have prepared a necessary offer -- and a legal offer, an offer that will make MIT more transparent. So, the proposal -- look, it's being acted in such a good way -- the withdrawal of this 5th article is predicted by our government, preventing a victim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0022par0336	What if he doesn't?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0021par0337	So if it doesn't, maybe the staff there will be victims, preventing this injury. So I want to emphasize how well-intentioned our government is. My dear friends, there are so many disinterested speeches being made yesterday evening that Mr. Mahmut Tanal, the Istanbul MP, said that when I was governor of the province of Şanlıurfa, he was a world full of suspects at that time, even though he had nothing to do with it. I was governor of Şanlıurfa for six years and was a very successful governor. Although terrors were widespread throughout the east and southeast of the province of Şanlıurfa at the time, there were rare acts of terror, with the image of a governor who was integrated with the people, and all efforts were carried out to go on them and find all their perpetrators as soon as possible. At that time, very important services, such as the Derhok Project in Şanlıurfa province, such as the organised industrial area, were performed. So, 18 years ago, I was very surprised that Mr. Mahmut Tanal would give such a speech about such a good service with honor and honor. As a lawyer, it's almost as if it's a target, it's pointing my person at a number of places. And I don't think his speech on this subject is in accordance with the law, the procedure, the morality. I wish, and I wish, that he would take back those words and apologize for their miscommunications. Because, indeed, this is a bench where the truth needs to be spoken, a platform that represents the will of the nation. It's not appropriate to talk about lying, slandering, slandering, slandering, or smearing campaigns. Therefore, I say that I do not approve of Mr. Tanal. I'm returning these to him, and I wish he'd apologize for this wrong and wrong conversation he's made. With all due respect, your support for our motion to withdraw this 5th article. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0023par0343	Now it's time, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0024par0344	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0023par0345	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0024par0346	Now, Mr. President, the speaker has expressed that opposition speakers, referring to opposition parties, are making non-law-related assessments in their speech, creating information pollution in this way.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0025par0347	He's right.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0024par0348	I've expressed the opinion of the Republican People's Party as a group. So, I want to talk about teasing. There's teasing our band.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0026par0349	He's not mentioned, Mr. President. We're not picking on him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0027par0350	Now, he didn't show a target, he didn't give a concrete description.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0024par0351	Sir, is there any concrete definition other than "experiment"?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0027par0352	He made such a general statement, but you were referred to us as the opposition party. Since you said so, I promise you, for two minutes, that I will tease you. I give you my word as Speaker, as spokesman for your group.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0024par0355	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, our views on this law are all about the law, so the amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act is about where it will lead our country, or we have no other assessment. Now, my colleague, Mr. Speaker, has said that the MIT is transparencyd by this law. Do you believe that now? There are some provisions concerning the trial of MIT personnel, or rather, not being judged, is this transparency of the MIT? Now, you know how the decisions of the Council of Ministers were made in Turkey. The Council of Ministers will be able to give its mandate. Now, you know that most of the decisions made by the Council of Ministers are just sub-signed decrees, which are left blank and filled when necessary; everyone knows that, and so does the Deputy Prime Minister. It means that this authority should be given to the Council of Ministers, only to the Prime Minister. That means there was no need to change the law. We want to inform our people about this. Certainly, it's the Speakers of the Justice and Development Party that created the pollution of information. We don't create information pollution, on the contrary, we're trying to give accurate information to our citizens, and we're expressing our views here for them to be properly informed. Thank you very much, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0028par0363	Mr. Secretary has a statement to make, please. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0029par0367	Mr. President, the congressman who was just speaking has said two things: the Board of Ministers will give every assignment. See, on the basis of the relevant clause, it fulfills the duties given by the Council of Ministers on issues related to external security, the fight against terrorism and national security. It's limited there, so it's clear what he'll be tasked with. It's because they keep saying it, and I keep explaining it so it doesn't get you wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0030par0368	Is the travel thing a terror or not?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0029par0369	Secondly...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0031par0370	Mr. Serindağ, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0030par0371	But now, Mr. President, this needs to be explained.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0031par0372	But you did, and now the Minister is making a statement, and we have to listen to him. Please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0032par0373	Secondly...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0030par0374	Let the Deputy Prime Minister explain whether he sees or sees travel events as acts of terror.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0031par0375	Mr. Serindağ, please, please, let's be respectful.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0032par0376	They don't understand respect, they don't.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0031par0377	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0032par0378	You talked, I listened, brother, sit down and listen!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0031par0379	Mr. Secretary, please, continue your statement.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0032par0380	Now, Mr. President, the second thing is, the Board of Ministers will be empty, signing their decisions without knowing what's going to happen. We all look at the Council of Ministers' decision, what it's about. We want an explanation, we don't sign it, we get some, we want to make it up to you. The decision of the Council of Ministers is defined by its agenda, and so is the minister's signature. It's a false statement. I'm fixing it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0033par0382	Why? Didn't you give the letter of resignation to Erdogan Bayraktar? Didn't Erdogan Bayraktar explain, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0034par0383	Yes, I'll vote on the motions.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0035par0386	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit01spe0034par0387	We've got roll call demands, let's identify our MPs. Mr. Ayadin, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Star, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Special, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Ören, Mr. Çam, Mr. Topal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Akova. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote on the same specific motions given on Article 5 did not have enough attendance in the roll call. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. Here you go. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Article 5 has been removed from the proposal text. The talks will continue through the current matter numbers. That will be considered in my article if the offer is passed by law. Congressmans, there are three motions on the 6th article, which I'm going to have read and process together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the current law bill 563 rows be removed from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Halil Aksoy Yen Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent corporate Erol Dora Secret Sakık The signatures of the other motion are: Ahmet Duran Bulut Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Longırmek Bulent Belen The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0036par0038	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0034par0039	The government...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0037par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0034par0041	The first speech on the proposals is from Mr. Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0038par0044	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all with respect and love. Before we get into this, there was just an explanation for Mr. Akbulut, the MP of Tekirdağ, about the unsolved murders. Mr. Governor, Nazim Babaoğlu was a journalist in 1994 and was murdered in Urbana. Again, Muhsin Melik was our mayor, and he was slain in Urbana. Hussein Toraman was slaughtered there during your time. Now, you know, God knows, that period, MIT, countererilla, gangs, JITEM, and you know it. You're still up here beating me because you're a successful governor. You need to come out here and make a self-criticism. If there were murders in your era, if the representatives of the political party were killed, you can't come out here and tell us about morality and decency. You were governor in a dark time, and in your time, these people were slaughtered, and you know it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0039par0047	Calm down.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0040par0048	Mr. Sakık, calm down, calm down.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0038par0049	Look, what are we going to calm down about? You can't expect us to tolerate an understanding that comes out and protects murderers here. If your mayors are killed, your deputies are murdered, and a governor comes along, and he talks about a dark time, and he presents this dark period as a success, none of you should tolerate it. Mr. President, I am so sorry. We're nervous because we're right, because we're wounded, we're from the land where thousands of unsolved murders have been committed, and we've lived there, and you tell me in God's name how the murders have been committed. You know, you know better than I do who murdered them. Dear friends, a law is being discussed. It's the MIT Act. We know why the nationalist and nationalist front opposes this law. Look, we're talking about a period where there's MIT, JITEM, gangs, tribes, and unsolved murders. These nationalists and these nationalist fronts never bothered about it, and if the Kurds were being killed, if the opposition were being killed, there was no sound. But the real problem today is not that the authoritarian structure of the MIT is redesigned by law. We understand very well, and we understand why you are so opposed to the process. Because you, yes, are seriously opposed to a process that begins from Oslo and continues today from Imran. If it's gonna stop the blood, we've been talking about... Look, people are constantly accused of being an asshole, and anyone who meets is an asshole. We're returning this. We meet, we are honorable people. The Peace and Democracy Party is a party that holds talks. He also goes and meets with the Imranite, and goes and meets with Kandil. He also comes and meets with power. It's an honorable business, stopping blood, stopping death is an honorable business. Do you know what an asshole is? To watch blood is to watch death. If the MIT has taken over its duties, and for the first time, the MIT is taking over the process, and it is being attacked on the subject, we will not stand by and watch. I'm here to congratulate Hakan Fidan and his team. Look, if there's been a process of non-conflict for a year and there's a contribution from MIT, we'd be very happy. Yes, unfortunately, the fate of peoples and nations is blood and tears. It wasn't our choice. In the history of Kurds and Turks, there has been blood and tears, and in the history of the Kurdish people, we've all experienced a process of blood and tears together, but there is also a democratic demand for peoples, there is a demand for peace. What's happening today is putting the peace process in the flesh. Mr. Ocalan, if the MIT has prevented blood from flowing through this land for over a year, if death has stopped it, if it has contributed to our peace at this point, we should thank them if they are the ones that this Parliament has failed to carry out. We're looking out of this window, or the laws that the MIT has set out to protect the representatives of the Peace and Democracy Party, the people who are going to Imralı, the people who are going to Kandil... we know how to take risks, we're from the culture of sacrifice. Let's go! But we also believe that the people who are going to do this should, yes, be secured at the level of the law. In the beginning, I pointed out that MIT had a hand in that bloody period. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The governor knows it well. Hopefully he'll come out and make a statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0041par0058	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. The other speaker on the proposals is Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0042par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group following the motion on Article 6 of Law Proposal 563. I salute your high council. We have a long-distance election run, changes that quickly come to our agenda after the holidays. During the first period, we submitted a motion to remove the 6th article in the MIT Law from the text. With our motion as the National Movement Party... it is not possible for us to participate in the amendment... which includes the use of weapons given by the MIT... which will continue to be used in the pensions of members of the MIT... without a license. This motion aims to eliminate any problems that may occur in the courts or prisons, such as places where the weapons are not allowed again. Therefore, I move that our motion be taken into consideration. Dear lawmakers, your efforts to create your own intelligence agency, your own law enforcement, your own courts continue at full speed these days, when the country's agenda is in turmoil because of you. You continue to undermine people's trust in democracy, law, justice, our security forces, in short, our state, with these changes that you're trying to make these days when our people are suffering from poverty and unemployment. The bribes, thefts, corruption, misdemeanor procedures, questionable assignments, transfers, are exemplary by our people. As the separatist organisation continues to cover and conceal secret negotiations with the PKK and the baby killer, the results of your compromises continue to appear daily. With all the changes you've made to the entire law, while keeping elected MPs in prison for years on coup charges, these regulations, including pardoning even constitutional crimes by members of the MIT, are basically dynamite laid on the foundations of our country's national unity and the unit structure. Again, with the Constitutional referendum, you tricked the public into violating the Constitutional Articles and changing the structure of HSYK. Mr. Prime Minister, in Egypt, in Yemen, in Libya, in Syria, in Syria, the organisers of the Twitter and Facebook have declared the heroes of democracy, while the changes to the Internet and social media arrangements in our country have led our people to serious fear every day. Will anyone be able to explain how your government is any different from the governments, the leaders you criticize, who are following a oppressive policy that restricts people's democratic freedoms? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address this bench to the government: Please, please, for the sake of God, give up your policies which have pushed our country into chaos, into chaos, into brother fighting, into polarization. People's fundamental rights and freedoms, please, for the sake of God, don't touch them. Please don't play with the basic values of our government and the sanctity of our nation. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0043par0073	Thank you. On the other motion, Mr. Mehmet Şeker will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0044par0077	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, before I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear friends, this is perhaps the most innocent clause of the bill because we have an offer that allows MIT to collect information, documents, and data from any institution, which provides the MIT with unlimited resources in terms of equipment, personnel; which removes IT out of judicial control and does not subject it to parliamentary control; which gives MIT extraordinary broad powers to respond to the demands of MIT, which provide the absolute response to the demands of MIT, which, in case it is given to its institutions and institutions, lays on all kinds of wrong regulations. We've been tricked again. You're going to stand in front of the microphones and say, "We've been naive, we've been deceived." Dear friends, as you all know, intelligence organizations and their members everywhere in the world have a very high rate of criminal activity, and the rate of accession to illegal structures is very high. There are a lot of illegal cases in our country, like unsolved murders that will never be erased from our memories, where the state intelligence organization is held responsible. We recently witnessed MIT personnel who sold the opposition colonel to Turkey, who had also delivered drugs to the Syrian regime. Now, with these facts, you're giving the MIT extraordinary powers, and you're taking their activities outside judicial, parliamentary control, blocking the trial of MIT personnel. So with this arrangement, you're making illegal gangbanging within intelligence legal armor and formalizing it. In this country, the immutation of the MIT will pave the way for coups, for in countries where strong institutions equipped with equipment are not tightly bound to the law. The proposal to set up a commission to investigate the unsolved murders, one of the proposals of the Commission for Research on Impacts, was also impossible. If you prevent members of the MSI from testifying even in court, you will be completely obstructing the lighting of dark spots that are known to have intelligence at the end, including past unsolved murders, political killings, social infinitive massacres, murdered authors, thinkers, bodies being dug out of the ditch. Dear friends, this Parliament established the Commission for Research on Impacts and Charms, with the signatures of these four political parties two years ago. He's got a report that came back 17 months ago. According to this, it was a study of both power and opposition lawmakers under which these proposals were signed. Well, we always say that when we're in trouble, you know, there was an interest lobby, you know, we forget, no one can think of it, now the fashion parallel structure. Well, there have been unsolved murders in this country, everyone knows that. On May 1, 1977, the massacres of Maras, Çorum, Malatya and Sivas were committed. There was a number of formations known as the Special War Office, the Gladio, the countergerilla, JITEM. Unfortunately, in the coup commission's proposal for these, there are 17 lawmakers here, both signed by the Justice and Development Party and by opposition parties. So, what did you do? I ask Mr. Elitas: Why didn't you bring this work to the agenda of the House? Those proposals included a civil constitution. Among those suggestions was a change in the Law of Political Parties. Those suggestions included a change in the CEC Law. Those proposals included the discovery of these illegal structures and the study of unsolved murders. The commissions would be set up, and we would face those commissions with our history, but unfortunately none of that has been done. The rush commission worked for, like, seven months, eight hours a day. Maybe I've had the longest-term commission in my life, and it's been a very pleasant commission, and we've had a lot of things, but unfortunately, there's no results. A wasted seven months. I would ask you to bring the proposals of this commission to this House, to discuss them, to set up a commission on them, and therefore to go over the dark pages of our history. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0045par0086	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in the 7th article.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0046par0090	Mr. President, I'm sorry. While I was away, Mr. Ziyaeddin Akbulut, the Tekirdağ MP, made statements against me that would humiliate me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0047par0092	He didn't make any demeaning statements. I expect him to apologize to me. He said.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0046par0093	According to Article 69, he made a taunt. It's about him, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, let me explain.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0048par0094	Mr. Tanal, the session has changed; one. And secondly, he hasn't made a statement to humiliate you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0046par0095	I'm asking your permission to be bullied according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0048par0096	But the session has changed. Give me a break.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0049par0097	He asked me to apologize, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0048par0098	Just a minute, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0050par0099	Mr. President, it's been 24 hours and since you've allowed Ziyaeddin Bey a day, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0051par0100	No, he spoke on the motion, Mr. Ziyaeddin.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0050par0101	According to Article 69, because of bullying...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0052par0102	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0050par0103	Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0052par0104	Now let's try the procedure. And you understand. Here you go. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0053par0109	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr Tekirdağ MP, yes, he was governor in Şanlıurfa. Look, I give you a book on the unknowns in his day: ονe read the names of Adnan Bağca, Ahmet Kalker, Attorney Kazım Ekinci, Bedirhan Kültır Göksel, Eyüp Gökoğlu, Fahri İnan, Faik Kevci, Faysal Kızırmak, Fethi Yıldırım, Hüseyin Deniz, Hüseyin Taşkaya, Kadir İpek Sürr, Kemal Kılıç, Mehmet Barlin, Mehmet Sen Melik, Mustafa Sür, Mustafa Suf Suman, Nazif Babamaz, Nazpım Akar, Şımaz, Şımaz, Şımaz, Şuç, Şıpıpıpüpul, Şıpüpüpüpul, Şar, Şeçpüpüç, Şar, Şer. Whoever the governor is at that time, that's who's in charge.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0054par0112	Then we'll have to ask the coalition government.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0053par0113	In that sense, the MIT law... that way, society will face the unsolved losses again. None of the statements the deputy made in my absence are true. It's very comfortable. I'm showing resources. My thanks and respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0116	Thank you, too, for your understanding.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0056par0117	Mr. President, the Governor would like to make a statement...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0057par0118	He wants a word...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0119	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0058par0120	Mr. President, with all these accusations, our mayor has been murdered, dozens of people killed, so let's get out of here and make a statement.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0121	Please... okay... Mr. Sakık, you've said your thoughts.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0058par0123	He knows something, he witnessed history. For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0124	Mr. Tanal told me. Governor, Akbulut does or does not make a statement. Please don't make me do this.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0059par0125	The governor is requesting a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0058par0126	We're victims of unknowns. It was made in its own time. He has to make a statement. He served as governor during a dark period. He has to make a statement. He can't just sit here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0127	Mr. Sakek, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0058par0128	Look, Saturday's Mom's on the street to make sure that this isn't a surrogate.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0129	Mr. Sakık... please, Mr. Sakık... you've talked here for five minutes, you've expressed your gratitude.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0058par0130	I'll talk to you in ten minutes. I'm a victim, I talk.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0060par0131	Don't do victim literature.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0132	Now you're talking. But please let me do the procedure. Mr. Akbulut has entered the system. Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0061par0135	Let him confess who killed him, and we'll forgive him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0055par0136	Please, allow me to lead the House. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0062par0139	Mr. President, I've been governor for six years in Urbana. I mean, it's the longest period of time, and at this time, there's been a lot of terrorist incidents in the southeast. But I went as governor after every incident in the province of Urbana. A governor who's just following the whole thing... he's got the prosecutor, he's got the police, he's got the police, I've got the attitude... even this Muhsin Melik, the deceased, came to me one day, he said: "Mr. Governor, no one in the southeast accepts us, you're the only one who accepts us. Thank you. So I did my part on that. These unsolved events have been handled, and the mission has been carried out.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0063par0141	Where are the perpetrators, the perpetrators? You were a scarecrow?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0142	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0062par0143	This is nothing but a fabrication and a fabrication. I did my duty by conscience, by law, by the law that day, and I continue to do it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0144	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0065par0145	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0066par0146	Mr. President is continuing his mission!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0147	I'm having the motions read...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0067par0148	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0149	I'm having the motions read, I'm going on, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0067par0151	Dear President, look, I'm sorry. Look, a governor is the head of property in that area. A governor can't pin it on the police, he's the number one person in charge. So for all the unsolved murders...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0153	Mr. Tanal, I didn't promise you anything. And when I promised, you explained your thoughts, no need to repeat them. If you'll excuse us, we'll proceed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0068par0155	How will you answer to God in the afterlife? You've all got blood on your hands!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0159	I said there were four motions in the 7th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second, fourth and fifth jokes added to Article 26 of Law 2/2011 in Article 7 of Law Proposal 2/2011 will be changed in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Hakan Sergeantoğlu Yilmaz junç İsmail Tamer Orhan Karasayar "Republic prosecutors report to the Undersecretary of the MIT when they receive any reports or complaints concerning the MIT mission and its activities, or when they find out about such a situation. There will be no other legal action and no protection measures if the MIT Undersecretary declares or documents the issue related to its duties and activities. Only according to the first joke provisions can be processed. "Investigations on the Undersecretary of the OSCE are carried out in the following two sentences of Article 3/A of Article 353, dated 25/10/1963 and in the last five, six and seven jokes. A trial of the Undersecretary of MIT is carried out by the Supreme Court's office. There can be no further investigation until there is new and concrete evidence of the same issue." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 563 Meeting Orders of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Order 7. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Erol Dora Altan Tan Halil Aksoy Abdullah Levent Corporate Gülser Yıldırım Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services 563 rankings currently in session, and the 7th Amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is unconstitutional. Celal Adan Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Bkent Belen Reşat Right Does the commission participate in the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0069par0195	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0196	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0070par0197	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0064par0198	Mr. Celal Adan of Istanbul will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0071par0201	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. From time to time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and members of the group, as a result of parliamentary elections on March 30th, we see that they are seeking a legitimate basis for some of the mistakes they bring to us by expressing that the nation's will is on their side. Now I'm asking you: the vote of the Justice and Development Party in the 2011 general election is 21 million, 399, and the vote of the Justice and Development Party in the March 30 elections is 19 million. Now, the missing here is about 2,300,000 votes. This is the nationalist movement party where he went to 2 million, 300,000 games. If the nation is to be respected, you must heed the warnings of the National Party of Action with great honor from now on. If the March 30th elections were on April 30th, you'd lose 2 million more votes. You shaped the matter with a noise. Now, you, the Justice and Development Party, have been dealing with an area since 2002: law, justice, national intelligence. In this geography, in the geography that we live in, we know the three most basic things: we know justice, we know the MIT, we know the police. It's in the genes of geography. In the struggle for existence and extinction, Kuvaimilliya, who joined with the Organization's Mahsusa, led us to build a state, led by Mustafa Kemal. Now, you've chosen December 17 as a mile, creating a perception. What right do you have to create that perception? What right do you have to turn a nation project, a nation's institution, a criminal organisation, with strategic importance in Turkey, such as National Intelligence? On December 17th, when you stand before the public and present justice as important as the MIT in a referendum, the speakers of the National Movement Party are politicizing the judiciary. When they say, "You have declared the National Movement Party a traitor and described it as a political act against justice, you are still dealing with the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors." Turkey is bigger than the Justice and Development Party, and the state of the Republic of Turkey is bigger than Erdogan. You need to get away from this complex. An institution that is very important in Turkey, such as National Intelligence, has no idea what's going on in Syria, no idea what's going on in Iraq. Your operation today, which has been unaware of all the developments in the world, has been powered by your politicalization logic, and the institutions that you degenerate are unable to perform their original tasks. You bring something else, you build another fear with national intelligence. Sir, don't the Turkish government have the means to operate when conditions for operations occur in Turkey? If there's a crime somewhere -- this crime -- isn't that what the state has when it comes to police intervention? You bring it up and you squeeze it into a tight space. No one can save you in this world, nor can any power save you on earth. You, the National Intelligence Service, without being cleared of justice, I'm telling you here, you're going to come and go through with these laws, but the children of Anatolia, the brilliant national intelligence members, who depend on the values of this country, will stand before you, just like the Judges and Prosecutors' High Council, and then the Prime Minister will come out and scream, and there's a parallel state in the country. Give up on them, take into account warnings from the National Movement Party regarding the values related to the MIT, which will protect Turkey. The people gave you this sign, taking 2,300,000 votes from the AKP, giving them to the Nationalist Movement Party. Why don't you respect that? You take all these evaluations on the axis of December 17th, it's a shame, it's a sin. December 17th is a theft in the history of the Republic, a disgrace. Courts are open if you have the heart. Go to the courts where you hand over the Turkish nation, surrender, surrender. If you're charged there, if you're punished, pay your dues. If you do not receive punishment, you will not be able to carry out this process by playing with MIT, by playing with security, by playing with justice. Come on, it's a shame, it's a sin. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0072par0210	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Here, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 563 Meeting Orders State Intelligence Services and the 7th Amendment to the National Intelligence Service Law We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Halil Aksoy Yen Gülser Yıldırım Abdullah Levent corporate Erol Dora On the motion, Mr. Cork MP will speak to Mr. Flood Köse. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0073par0230	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Prior to the MIT Law, a proposal given by Republican People's Party MPs here yesterday was rejected by the majority vote of lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party. What was that? We came to you on September 12th regime, which you always wanted to change, with a request for the extradition of property of NGOs, trade unions, and, in particular, TÖB-DER's -- tens of thousands of patriotic teachers. Again, you have demonstrated your hypocritical politics here, and once again your determination to not return the property of the DİSK, DİSK, and your co-operation with the fascist regime of September 12th. We're followers. We will fight until we have received the property of tens of thousands of patriotic teachers, who have wiped the sweat of their foreheads, and have obtained all the goods that they have acquired. Dear friends, with the arrangements you've made recently, with the arrangement you've made in the HSYK, with the arrangement you've made in the TİB, with the soup package you've brought under the name of the (democratization package) and especially with this MIT Law, you want to establish an order that cannot be touched, and that is the case. And by this law, you're building an illegal, semi-legal, law-free organization that has nothing to do with anything but its own law. However, despite information about MIT that foreign services have infiltrated the MIT and that operations have been conducted under their direction, there are a number of widespread rumors and pollution of information -- information -- that the MIT has established organizations for unsolved murders, that the gangs have formed and rumors that Alevi have been tagged, you are giving MIT authority even though information about the Aleki businessmen have been reported to the press that the Republican People's Party MPs have been tagged. I told you in my speech on the Commission, I'm one of the signed MPs for the Republican People's Party. Why did you tag us, Mr. MIT executives? Explain to me why you printed it, why, as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as a deputy representing the national will, you've tagged the Flood Kose. Please explain that. Now, my dear friends, with all this gossip going around, these powers given to the MIT, while the evidence blackouts are in the middle, I'm afraid. Now, in the Commission, one of our fellow MPs is speaking, critical of the MIT. You were there, Mr. Idris. I don't know who's in charge of the MIT, Assistant Secretary or something, he's leaning towards the Minister -- we have a very tough Minister, he's angry at everything here, Bashir Atalay, very angry, says:....... Bolu MP Tanju Özcan. says they're whispering, whispering. Is it possible, my dear friends, not to be afraid of MIT? We're scared.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0074par0234	They don't skewer, they plug.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0073par0235	Now, what do they want to change? When the prosecutors of the Republic receive any reports and complaints concerning the MIT mission and its activities, they will ask MIT (MIT) and will do no other legal action. Now, is it the duty of the MIT to intervene in the civil war in Syria? We didn't know if the guns and ammunition had not appeared under the control of the MIT. You're saying that there was a parallel structure of the parallel structure of the parallel structure of the parallel structure of the parallel structure of the parallel structure of the parallel structure of Allah, and your humiliations have been revealed.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0075par0236	He'll save you too!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0073par0237	Two thousand, 20,000 trucks of weapons were sent. Now, there's been an incident on August 21st, a chemical attack on Guta. Look, it's been published in the world press, very well-respected, multi-privileged journalists... the minister doesn't take it seriously, he says not to talk about it in public. Seymour Hersh, now a journalist, has announced. He said: "My brother, MIT had something to do with this. These weapons were sent to Al-Qaeda-related El Nusra. There is such an incident under the supervision of the gendarmes. Now, are our republic's prosecutors going to give this up because they call it an anonymous tip or MIT says it's our job? Now, the grizzly's witness is the wine-stealing, dear friends. Look, there was a chemical attack, and the government immediately said: "There is no Ankara in this work, Syria did it, Assad did it. " Immediately, MIT, where was the missile launched from, where did the weapons go from, and immediately, he explained it. The poet's witness is the corrupter. One of the world's most important technology universities -- his name is MIT -- Massachusetts Institute Of Technology -- said: "Sister, these missiles are missiles with two kilometers of range and can only be thrown out of the region of the opposition to the Assad regime." Two days later, he explained. Look, you've got a big noose around your neck, which is in the hands of America. Let's see what kind of compromise they make from the AKP. Otherwise, it is inevitable that Erdogan and some of the ministers of the Council of Ministers will be tried in international criminal courts, my dear friends, and know this. You can't get anywhere by telling people they've had a lot of hash. How do you know? You've had a lot of hash, too? They'll ask. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0076par0244	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0077par0245	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, he's saying something important.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0076par0246	You want to explain...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0077par0247	It's a short statement.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0076par0248	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0077par0249	Of course, there's a taunt, there's a government charge.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0076par0250	Then take the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0077par0251	I can do it from here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0076par0252	You'll make a statement. Okay, two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0078par0257	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, we are here to deny all of the high-profile speaker's accusations against our government, Syria, in this case, about sending weapons or, in particular, chemically related. We've had our explanations, but since it's a conversation like this, I'm just saying that again for the record. And let me put it this way: I mean, either Al Qaeda or ISIS or the other organization that was mentioned earlier, none of which are known or supported by Turkey. They are described as a terrorist organization both in Syria and in the general Islamic world. Their activities have also harmed Islam, causing Islam to be linked to terrorism internationally. We, in no way, as a government, as our own policies, did not support them or care or even resist them. At the moment, these organisations, particularly this ISIS, are being used as instruments in a sense in the hands of the Esed regime. We know these things, but there's no way that we can approve of such statements being expressed by an international author, as well as by a government in our own Parliament. That's what I said the other day. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0079par0262	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0263	Mr. President, why isn't he responding to the billing of lawmakers?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0079par0264	On the other motion, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan will speak.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0265	Mr. President, can I have your attention? Mr. President, here's a congressman speaking.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0081par0266	You're interrupting the president.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0267	Respect the congressman. He answers one of the questions, and when he doesn't answer one, he accepts it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0082par0268	You will speak according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0269	Yeah, I'm just saying, don't let go!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0082par0270	The person who has the right to answer is conscious of which one to answer, and you do not need to interfere.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0271	Sarin's responding to gas, but he's not responding to the billing of lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0082par0272	Please stay in order.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0080par0273	Don't you have to protect the congressman's rights? Use that podium properly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0082par0277	Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0083par0278	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I celebrate the birth of Lord Muhammad Mustafa of the Fahri Universe this week on the occasion of the Happy Birth Week, with our deepest respect, and with all the Muslims of the Cenab, I pray for your intercession on the Day of Judgment. Secondly, nearly 4,000 villages were destroyed and again taken from 180,000 Kurdish homes in 1986 and 1988, when Saddam Hussein's administration ruled against the Kurds in 1986 and 1988. In the Basra deserts of these people, and in many parts of that geography -- in unfathomable places -- the bodies come out today, the bones come out, and those identified with DNA are brought in, and they're buried again in the custody of their families with tears, but so far, there are not even over 100,000 people's bones. They left and never came back. We remember them with mercy, like all the oppressed in the world, as all the victims do, and curse the oppressors. Dear friends, about this National Intelligence Law, and about the Law on Judges and Prosecutors, which came before this, we have repeatedly warned about the regulations regarding the Constitutional Court, but every time -- it doesn't work, but yes. They brought what Turkey needs, what the state needs, what modern democracy needs, how governments organized, how they've had these experiences in the world, how they've made laws, and how we've created a law based on it, instead of making a law, what it takes for power that day, whatever it takes, whatever it takes, whatever it takes, whatever it takes, and what it takes to change its needs, and what it is that state needs, what the state needs, what the state needs, what modern democracy needs, what it is, what it's what it is, and what it's what it's done in the world. Here's what happened with the judges and the prosecutors right in front of you. They're screaming about the Constitutional Court as well, and they're looking for a time and a place to change that. Why are you so worried about national intelligence? We, the Peace and Democracy Party in the first place, have told you that all these talks, dialogues, the process of resolving the Kurdish issue, come to the law, link it to the law. How are you able to copyright these arrangements by taking shelter behind this, with no head, no end, and giving infinite and infinite powers to national intelligence? We are clearly and clearly saying that we are not behind this copyright, number one. Second, regarding the 7th article that I'm talking about, according to this very clear and clear clause, the Republican prosecutors will contact MIT when they receive any reports or complaints concerning the mission and activities of the MİT and its members, or if they find out about such a situation. There will be no other legal action, no protection measures, when the matter is understood or documented about the mission and activities of the MIT. You say. A friend of ours just spoke before me, and I don't want to repeat the same thing, and I've edited it, and I don't use the wineman's witness because it's used. Well, the D.A.'s coming, who's he gonna ask? MITίe. What did he do? Here, within my knowledge. What is your knowledge? What's your clearance? Here, there's 2,000 trucks. And I'm not going to go for that, because he's making up the cover that stole the minaret. Now, the Minister says that we have nothing to do with El Nusra, not with ISIS, not with Al Qaeda. This is a terrorist organization. We wrote it and all the other media cursed us. Let's see what they have to say about you, Mr. Secretary. In particular, Mr. Hakan, I'm calling from here. I wonder if he'll use what he's written about me, because you call them terrorist organizations. Second of all, we certainly didn't help them. You say, let's face it, did you send 2,000 truck biscuits? Please, send some kebabs and lamacun to these guys from now on, please, just a biscuit. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0084par0287	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second, fourth and fifth jokes added to Article 26 of Law 2/2011 in Article 7 of Law Proposal 2/2011 will be changed in the following way. Adnan Yilmaz (Erzurum) and his friends "Republic prosecutors report to the Undersecretary of the MIT when they receive any reports or complaints concerning the MIT mission and its activities, or when they find out about such a situation. There will be no other legal action and no protection measures if the MIT Undersecretary declares or documents the issue related to its duties and activities. Only according to the first joke provisions can be processed. "Investigations on the Undersecretary of the OSCE are carried out in the following two sentences of Article 3/A of Article 353, dated 25/10/1963 and in the last five, six and seven jokes. A trial of the Undersecretary of MIT is carried out by the Supreme Court's office. There can be no further investigation until there is new and concrete evidence of the same issue." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0085par0297	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0084par0298	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0086par0299	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0084par0300	Mr. Mustafa Elitaş of Kayseri will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. He has just been compelled to explain, and he has done the right thing, because every word said on this stand is being recorded as a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the world media and everyone trying to take advantage of it is lying in wait. In the chemical weapons conducted on Syria, a deputy member of the parliament is in a statement blaming the government of the Republic of Turkey and the state of the Republic of Turkey on a report or a column written by a university abroad and is holding a meeting in favour of the Syrian state.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0088par0306	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0307	For the record, Mr. Secretary's intervention is here and is important. Look, Mr. President of the National Movement Party, on Tuesday's group address, Mr. State Gardenli has shown that a statement by a columnist or any institution or organization against the state of the Republic of Turkey is absolutely unacceptable. That's the way it is, that's the way it is, that's the way it is, that's the way it is. Now...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0089par0310	Did you read the rest?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0311	Oh, he may have said something more politically, but the bottom line is...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0090par0312	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0313	Look, I'm telling you, no one... if your president is singing in the same parallel, I'm criticizing him, too. If...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0091par0314	He doesn't say it in the same parallel, he says, "Did you listen?"
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0315	By the way, you're in a lot of relationships with parallels, so maybe you're in a parallel.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0091par0316	We're sewing, perpendicular.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0317	So I'm saying that it's not the legislature to say everything in public here. Deputies are a matter of serious importance, such as state-of-the-art.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0091par0318	That's right!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0092par0319	Where have you been for 11 years? You guys were tight.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0320	You are left here to defend Assad. The one who gave the order that led to the death of hundreds of thousands of people who led to the migration of 1 million people from Syria.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0093par0321	How do you know he's giving orders?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0322	You are a Turkish citizen, a member of the state of the Republic of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0093par0323	Were you with him when I instructed him?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0324	... you have to act accordingly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0094par0325	Who sent the sarin gas?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0326	Look, dear lawmakers, when you were coming to the March 30 elections, you told, you testified, you spoke here, you heard the slanders, you testified, you expressed what was a lie, you embraced, you claimed, you brought them here, you even showed a forbidden broadcast in the Turkish Grand National Assembly group room, as a general president of an unknown publication. In the history of the Republic, perhaps for the first time in the history of the world, you made a move here. But on March 30th, these people didn't believe in lies, they didn't believe in the thesis, they didn't believe in any false wisdom that the parallel structure whispered in your ear, they taught you a lesson. You know, there's a thing called the sassy one, and these opposition parties are being beaten up.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0094par0328	You've lost 2 million votes!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0329	They go into the trunk, as Mr. Bahçeli said, the Ottomans take a beating and sit down, and then the poor comfort...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0095par0331	Who's got a slap?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0332	My vote went up to this point... let him go, you didn't have the game. You became the fourth party in Istanbul, the third party was Sırrıyya Önder. You're the fourth party in Istanbul, and you're up here, and you're saying that the vote of the nationalist Movement Party has increased there. They were not your games, they were nothing but the votes of the CHP from the CHP to the CHP to the CHP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0095par0333	Did he come to you with instructions before? Did he come to you with instructions earlier?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0334	And with the numbers... don't mislead the numbers, don't distort the numbers; look, don't distort the numbers, don't deceive them. The EC PARTY won 21 million,400,000 votes in the 2011 elections, with 20,500,000 votes in the 2014 local elections. What are they doing, sir? The votes for the city council are ours. So, what are you going to do with the votes for the mayor of the city, where are you going to put them? They're also sealed in the name of the AK PARTY, which you can't do on any side.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0096par0336	Is that how you fool yourself?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0337	Look, in a crisis in 2001, this nation slapped you so hard that you fell from 18 to 8 percent.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0096par0339	He's gonna punch you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0340	But you took refuge behind tapes of parallel structure full of slanders and obscure tapes, full of lies and montages, and you couldn't wear down the power of the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0096par0341	The tape is your business, you're in charge of the tape.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0097par0342	Until yesterday, you were sleeping in the same bed with the parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0343	You're having a hard time doing this, and you're doing this: my vote has increased by 500,000 million. This is the comfort of the poor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0098par0345	It's not a million, it's two million, three hundred thousand.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0087par0346	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0098par0348	$2,300,000, not a million, not 500. More than you've lost, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0099par0349	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0100par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0101par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0099par0352	Wait a minute. I'll promise you all, just a minute. Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0101par0354	I'd like word from the president for bullying.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0099par0355	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0101par0358	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0102par0359	They also read half of Pehlivanoğlu's poem, his letter.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0103par0360	You've been together 11 years.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0104par0361	Congressmans, please listen to the speaker.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0362	First of all, everyone needs to know what they're saying. Those who talk about the tapes today, if they talk about their own tapes, they'll start talking about the montage right away. You clean up your own corruption first, brother. Go, you have a minister, now he is coming, so make something of it, and bring it to the High Council, and let them come.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0106par0363	Which one's the counter?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0364	We threw our friends out of our party when the tape came in. If you can throw, if you are brave, take them to the Supreme Court and clear them, and then become AK PARTY. So look at your own mud, look at your mess, then talk. If we come to the elections, it's clear exactly what everyone's getting in the election. Did you fall about 19 years old? You fell. So your vote is down to 19 million? He fell. You've dropped from 21 million to 19 million. So, the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0106par0366	You didn't listen to me. Teacher, you're still teaching history, you haven't been to math.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0367	I'll tell you the date, okay. What percentage of the game did you get in 2011? You put it in the general election mood, you couldn't get it. You're down to 19. Then, did the National Movement Party raise its 5.5 million votes to 7,700,000 today? He took it off. So...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0107par0369	You're so good!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0370	You'll see if it's successful in the next election.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0108par0371	Where's 20 million, where's 7 million?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0372	But the important thing is that the President of the United States said: "It is the unacceptable claims of an investigative journalist about Turkey." But then he added that you should also say: "The government must quickly block the defamation campaign against our country, with information and documents to prove that it has no finger in the disgusting genocide in Guta. "
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0109par0373	The Minister told me, the Prime Minister told me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0105par0374	You prove it first, brother, and then come here and talk to me, on this stand. Have the right to speak first.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0111par0377	Is 7 million more than 20 million, Hajji?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0112par0378	Mr. President, you're covered in filth, mud flowing, corruption flowing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0379	Mr. Elitaş, I promise Muharrem İnce, then I'll tell you...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0113par0380	Mr. President, we're talking about our own votes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0381	Mr Muharrem Ence...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0113par0382	21 million is less than 19 million?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0114par0383	Mr. President, I need to...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0384	I'm giving it to the group's vice presidents, friends, on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0114par0385	Sir, I'm being picked on!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0386	Please, if you'll excuse me, I made a promise to your Deputy Director of the Group. I made a promise to your group president, so...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0114par0387	Well, you don't explain it, then you do, Mr. President! Please say it!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0388	I give my word to the Deputy Director of the Group, and you want your word.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0114par0389	But you only make it sound like you're making promises to the group's vice presidents, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0110par0390	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0392	Thank you, Mr. President. You won't allow the trial, you'll change the police, you'll change the judge, you'll change the prosecutor, and then you'll say "montaj, dublaj"! The question is, which lab did you run it through, and it turns out it's a montage?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0116par0396	A minister feels it!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0397	What review board, what technical report? That's the question.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0117par0398	In everyone's lab, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0399	You've got four tapes to go to İdris Naim Şahin.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0117par0400	People tested it on March 30th, Mr. Slim!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0401	...the minister of the EU will come out. My prime minister won't feel safe. She'll say, Melih Gökçek will rise. I can be in a difficult situation, and I have a tape. My dear friends, look at the state Turkey has come to. If the Prime Minister doesn't feel safe, he'll go to the polling area about the former Interior Minister and tell him there are four tapes of this. If he fights with Efkan Ala tomorrow, he'll tell him that he has tapes, too.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0118par0403	Where are the four tapes?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0404	The Prime Minister said that. I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0118par0405	That's not true!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0406	It's not the right thing to do.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0118par0407	There are four tapes. He didn't say anything!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0408	Look, you're asked a question: have the Regents been tagged? You can't answer. Have you tagged the Regents? My dear friends, I know you're uncomfortable with the way Turkey is going. You're not comfortable. And, of course, you know very well that those meetings aren't montages, they're not dublages. You know very well, and you're sure of it, but that's what you have to say politically. Let's send them to an international firm, send them to a review board, have them examined.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0118par0410	Do you know anyone?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0411	Isn't there an institution in the world that has this kind of scientific competence that specializes in this?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0118par0412	I'll bet you do!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0413	Come on, let's get these examined. What report do you say these were edited?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0119par0415	He's feeling it, he's feeling it!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0416	Put the report in front of us and make us believe!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0120par0417	What report are you saying it wasn't edited?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0418	You just say that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0121par0419	Don't insult the speaker, please!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0115par0420	There are these allegations. You might have turned these off for now. It's not justified by choice, it's justified by judgment. I'm bringing this to your attention. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0122par0424	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0123par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0122par0427	Wait a minute. Tell me why, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0124par0429	Me, against the Republic of Turkey, next to the Syrian state, on the bench of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0122par0430	He didn't mention your name.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0125par0431	The People's Minister said, Mr. President, mercy!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0124par0432	The previous speaker said I was the previous speaker, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0125par0433	Did he mean someone else?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0126par0434	All right, here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0127par0435	You're not listening!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0128par0436	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0126par0437	Then I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0128par0438	No, wait a minute. You may have made a promise to a friend, but you promised the deputy president of the group not to be bullied.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0126par0439	Mr. Elitaş, the speaker has asked for a word from the teaser, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0129par0440	He said, "He teased our party, so I answered for him."
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0126par0441	After that, I'll begin the procedure, Mr. Lawmakers, please... Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0444	Mr. President, I'm a patriot, a revolutionary, and I don't sell my hometown, and I don't know how to sell, and I'm not a merchant. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, in two days, our MIT calculates the angle of missiles in Syria, finding out where they're being launched from!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0131par0447	Even Assad can't talk like you! You're like the representative of Assad.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0448	So, what are you doing in Roboski, Syria, where do you get the information that 34 people in Uludere have been killed? Where is the wrong information coming from?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0132par0449	You don't know what you're talking about!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0450	Look, dear friends, look...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0132par0451	You don't know what you're saying!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0133par0452	It's from Assad!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0453	Look, look, look, look, look, you, I saw you at the Madimak Hotel with those gas bearers.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0133par0454	Me?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0455	You, of course.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0134par0456	Mr. Köse, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0457	Now that you're saying it, I've seen you there.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0134par0458	Mr. Köse, please speak without pointing a finger. Don't cause any new taunts.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0135par0459	Yeah, well, you're a complete partner in the parallel! Even the parallel structure doesn't slander like that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0460	Now, look, you find Uludere's intel first, find Uludere's intel. You're a sectarian. My brother, Islam, of course, does not allow chemically armed attacks. Is it Christian? I mean, does Judaism say, "Do a chemical attack"?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0136par0462	She thinks the Madimak Hotel is in Kayseri!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0463	I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, did you ask the members of the MIT who were with you why did you tag this MP? You know, friends, the opposition might get beaten up, but the opposition doesn't get orphaned? It's not like he's taking the poor for granted. (CHP clapping) The chest can take a beating. "And we do not eat the orphan's property; our forehead is open, and our forehead is open."
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0137par0465	You're smart, people are stupid, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0466	The votes won't give anyone the freedom to commit a crime, Mr. Elitaş, do you understand, or take 50 million votes?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0137par0467	He won't, but he won't give you the freedom to slander.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0468	Of course, it doesn't give you the freedom to slander.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0137par0469	You're slandering me!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0470	If this were a slander, you would have made a mess. This shit's out there, bro. The world is talking about the chemically armed attack on Guta. Clear yourselves. Otherwise, you'll never get away with it. If you are not tried in Turkey, the international criminal court will judge you. You have no choice, you're desperate, remember that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0138par0472	As long as there are people like you against the country...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0473	I'm not against the country.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0138par0474	That's right.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0475	I'm a patriot. I believe that in the Republic of Turkey, every human being in the world has human rights. Every man has the freedom to live.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0138par0476	You don't have the freedom to slander.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0477	And we're not slandering.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0138par0478	You do!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0130par0479	Our forehead is open, our heart is clean!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0139par0481	Mr. Köse, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0140par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0141par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0139par0484	Mr. Adan, before you, Mr. Elitaş asked for a word. On what grounds do you request a word?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0141par0486	Mr. President has made an important claim. She said I was one of those carrying gasoline to the Madımak Hotel.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0142par0487	But then him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0143par0488	After we're done...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0144par0489	That was the next one, but that was the next one. One, the Celal Adan, then...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0145par0490	Wait, what later?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0144par0491	Mr. Elitaş, what you're saying right now is...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0145par0492	Mr. President, no, Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0146par0493	Mr. Elitaş wants to talk about your bullying.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0145par0494	There's a lot of interference over there.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0495	Guys, if you'll excuse me, just a minute, and I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0145par0496	Mr. Halaçoglu said that you're covered in filth.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0497	Okay, because you picked on him?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0145par0498	I want to promise not to pick on him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0499	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0500	That's later, but wait a minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0501	No, no, not later.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0502	Mr. Aden wants to speak because of Mr. Elitaş's bullying. After the bullying of Elitas. Shall we shout, then, like him?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0503	Elitaş, Mr. Halaçoglu wants to talk about it as soon as he speaks.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0149par0504	Don't be lawyers with each other. Mr. Adan defends his rights.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0505	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0506	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0507	Mr. President, excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0147par0508	No, I won't listen.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0150par0509	Look, you have humiliated Mr. Adan. You have humiliated Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0510	You're embarrassing me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0150par0511	He'll be here any minute, Mr. Adan will talk.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0512	Elitaş, Halaçoglu has wanted to speak since he spoke.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0513	No, it's not his turn, Mr. President. Elitaş doesn't run this place, you run this place.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0514	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0515	Mr. Elitas wants to speak because of the bullying, because of what Mr. Elitas said later. Please promise me one thing at a time. There's nothing special about ruling members. He's a congressman, too.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0516	Are you done talking or are you done?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0517	It's over.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0518	Now I'm talking.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0519	Then tell me now.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0520	Since Mr. Halaçoglu speaks, Elitaş raises his hand, I say one minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0521	So what is it?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0522	Wait a minute... Then Mr. Slim spoke. Mr. Flood, when he spoke, Celal Adan stood up, but Elitas had a request, and I asked him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0524	What's it about, Mr. President, what's it about?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0525	What's it to you? I'm asking, and I'm directing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0526	How come? You promise not to pick on me, new, new!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0527	He told me about Halaçoglu's meetings.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0528	You promise you won't pick on me again. How is that none of my business?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0529	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0530	You have to promise whoever's picking on you first.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0531	No, Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0532	Don't pick on me like that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0533	Sit down, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0534	He doesn't have a priority, he doesn't have a priority as a ruling party. He can't direct you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0535	I think what I'm doing is very right.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0148par0536	Make the right decision!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0152par0537	Mr. President, there's a group vice president standing right there, Mr. Adan. I mean, the vice president of the group is standing there, Mr. Adan is standing there; he's a lawyer!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0538	Mr. Elitaş, please don't answer. Initiating your time, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0153par0540	Oh, he's got no priority, he can't get up from there and direct you! For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0541	Look, I'm pissed off, and I dropped the plate like the Hasip Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0154par0542	Mr. Günal, when did you become a lawyer? Stop being a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0153par0543	I'm a lawyer against any injustice! I'm against whoever's being unfair.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0151par0544	Please, I follow very well, and I never get a right. Please!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0155par0545	Can we start the clock again?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0156par0546	Stop being a lawyer, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0157par0547	You have eaten, and you say, and we have just spoken of Madimak. If you want to take out the report, look at the report.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0158par0548	Mr. Günal, if you'll excuse me, I'll run the House.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0157par0549	I'm telling you to run it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0158par0550	Do I have your permission?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0157par0551	You're in charge.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0158par0552	Oh, do you mind? Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0159par0553	Time, time...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0555	Now, look, I'll answer to Halaçoğlu.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0158par0556	Mr. Elitaş, please continue. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0557	Mr. President, you interfere with me while I'm on the stand, but he's yelling at you at the bar. If it weren't for a little more...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0161par0558	Don't talk like a man, speak like a man.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0559	We call them men, we don't say anything else, so we don't say anything else, we call them men.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0161par0560	I'll take it out of the report, and I'll take it out on what you say when it comes to this guy.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0162par0561	This isn't the MIT of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, but...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0562	Now, if there wasn't a table here, he'd attack you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0161par0563	I'll take it out when it's said what Elitas said, man. I'll take it out.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0564	Now, look, Mr. Halaçoglu, the votes we've received, the city council, the city council, you're calculating this; you're trying to present what's in the newspaper of the parallel structure, in the media here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0161par0565	Is that Madýmak too?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0163par0566	And weren't you the ally of the parallel structure, why did you fall apart so much?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0567	The count of the votes used to the city general Assembly in 51 districts is correct, because everyone in that province voted for that party. But in the capital cities, everyone voted for the mayors. You get up, ignore the vote given to the mayors of the city. Where do you cast that million votes?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0164par0568	Didn't there used to be a mayor in the city?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0569	You need to answer for this, and you're in historical responsibility.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0164par0570	Is that new, mayor of the city?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0571	Because you're fooling people with numbers here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0164par0572	Did it just happen or didn't the mayor of the city used to?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0573	You're lying. You're not getting in my mouth, you're my people, but you're misleading history. As a historian, you deceive here in front of history, historians will question you, one.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0165par0574	You're the one who's got it wrong. You're the one who's got it wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0575	There's no dirt on any of us. We've come out in front of this nation with our sweats and our foreheads.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0165par0576	Well, bring in the riots.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0160par0577	Seventeen days ago, this nation made up its mind, and said: "HPP is lying too, and the MHP is lying, and they all are slandering. I don't believe any of these slanders. As Mr. Bahçeli said, as Mr. President General said: "Tak, knock, knock, knock, knock; an Ottoman slap, snap; you are on the floor!"
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0165par0579	Where did you go? Where did you go?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0166par0580	Is this a public court or a public court or what did you vote for? In judgment, in judgment!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0167par0581	Did you vote theft or corruption?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0168par0582	I mean, not because of what happened in the trunk, but look, you got your Ottoman slap, you can't get up, you're still broke!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0169par0584	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0170par0585	What happened to Madýmak, Madýmak? You went up there to make out.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0169par0586	What is your request, Mr. Adan?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0171par0587	Dear Elitaş, by showing me...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0172par0588	You set up a civil court?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0173par0589	Mr. President, we're getting a hit here!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0174par0590	So, what's the rate of 55 percent? It's a shame! That's the rate of 45 percent, so what's the rate of 55 percent?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0175par0591	I don't understand anything because of the MPs. Mr. Günal, I'm congratulating you, by the way.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0176par0593	I'm reporting it, too, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0175par0594	I'm reporting it because you yelled and I didn't scream.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0176par0595	Because it was Mr. Adan's turn.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0175par0596	My condolences. Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0177par0598	I made an election assessment. That I used false statements on the numbers...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0175par0599	Here's two minutes, for teasing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0177par0601	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been through the most embarrassing process of the Republic of Turkey. Here, without shame, without assembly... the deputy leader of the group must confess that the speakers of the National Movement Party have created a media monopoly in Istanbul, Ankara and İzmir's axis... that they can't even digest a speech that Mr. President of the National Movement Party has made in the group. No candidate of the National Movement Party has been released, not on three major televisions, but on no television channel, given instructions.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0178par0602	It was all over the parallel media.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0177par0603	The parallel state did not remove what you said.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0179par0604	You've arrived at the National Channel.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0177par0605	So it was just a bunch of grass that blew the camel apart. The will to collect $650 million to buy the ATV and the Sabah newspaper, to betray democracy, to betray the National Party of Action. You're gonna pay for this, too. By taking over these televisions... the nationalist movement party's candidates were Mevlüt Karakaya, Rasim Acar, two islands that caught everyone's attention, but were never put on any program. I called the TVs, they said we can't take them off. So we try to explain every day the injustice of the Justice and Development Party. A position has been formed on the contenders' axis, and a ruthless attitude has been created that the National Movement Party does not participate in the elections in Istanbul. You know these things. This is the Line of the Conqueror... the Prime Minister who claimed this non-democratic will, said, "I did." He said, "I made a phone call." But Sarach the Conqueror is there now, and he's gone. So, on one hand, televisions, televisions that depend on you, and on the other, the adjective you set up on the ATV and the Sabah newspaper, that you set up on all televisions. The National Movement Party was nowhere in the project of those who wanted to build what you call a parallel issue. The National Movement Party has taught you a lesson by raising 2,300,000 votes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0180par0606	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0607	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0182par0608	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0180par0609	I'll take a vote.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0610	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0180par0611	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0612	He also lies, and MHP lies. He said, "Mr. Elitaş." If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0180par0613	And then Elitaş will talk, and when do I get to vote?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0614	Sir, let him speak without insult.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0180par0615	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're gonna give me a break from the hearing, after all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0619	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to congratulate you on the fact that you got a lot of votes, and that's how it is.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0183par0621	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0184par0622	That's what you're gonna say.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0623	But voting doesn't mean you didn't get the right to an orphan. You've moved 8,000 police officers, hundreds of judges, prosecutors; Internet bans bans, Twitter, YouTube, whatever you can think of; HSYK regulations, MIT Law-- that shows that you're in a state of panic. The government's governors, the state's planes, the state's resources are at your disposal. UYAP has mobilized you. You are protesting 5,600 in Hatay alone. Put your hand on your conscience, it's clear who might be able to enter that IYAP, at your service, the Department of Justice, where do you identify them one by one? You're detecting it by the state's means. You've created provinces, you've created toads in 2009, you've created Flags. In Alexander, you traveled between the streets and made counties. You've done all this. It's important to get 45 percent of the vote, you're telling the truth, they love you very much, but one thing you've forgotten is that those who didn't vote for you for the first time in Turkey hate you, hate you! There were those who loved Ozal, but they did not hate Ozal.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0185par0625	From where did you measure it?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0626	There were those who loved Demirel, but the Ecevitians did not hate Demirel.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0185par0627	Dream, dream! You're telling your dream!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0628	The blacksmiths did not like Ecevit, but they did not hate Ecevit.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0185par0629	You're talking about your wish here!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0186par0630	Don't pick on me from where you're sitting, please!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0631	Those ballots don't happen with our organization because of you, from MPP to CHP to MPP, from CHP to CHP, as long as they don't win...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0187par0632	That's right, you're already extras!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0633	They hate you, they don't want you to win. God damn it, I'm an MPP, but they don't want to come! He says he's giving it to CHP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0188par0634	Mr. Slim, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0635	Or he's out of the CHP. God damn it, he says they don't win. He goes and gives them to the MPP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0188par0636	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0637	The citizen does it on his own, it's not our organization.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0189par0638	Your own organization!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0639	Think about how much you make me hate you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0640	Mr. Slim, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0181par0641	I pay my respects to the House.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0191par0643	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0644	Now, I'll give you my last word.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0192par0645	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0646	I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0192par0647	Mr. President, both Mr. Taughty and Mr. Adan...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0193par0648	Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on this time!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0649	Please, no more words. Don't make me change my vote!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0193par0650	Mr. President, he's doing it again, look!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0194par0651	And Mr. Adan, without shame, without rumbling...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0652	Mr. Elitaş, wait a minute... Mr. Halaçoglu, may I ask your reason?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0195par0654	The liar said, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0190par0655	All right, I'll give you my last word. Please, I beg you, no more promises, or I'll take a break. Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0196par0659	Yes, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, I mean, at least there should be a little more respect, you shouldn't have shown up as a man who's lost his temper enough to accuse us of lying.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0197par0660	Oh, poor thing!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0196par0661	Look, you're saying the same thing again, poor thing! Now, you're probably looking in the mirror, looking at who's pathetic!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0198par0662	May God heal you!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0196par0663	Now, what shall we say? May God give you wisdom, may God give you ideas, may God grant you wisdom! What else can I say? Because, once you know what you've lost, it's not really about getting too many votes or getting too few votes. So, you know, the 7.7 of the MPP is associated with at least the most general and other elections; we know yours, and we know yours! You got 45.5 per cent in the mayoral election, 46 per cent, but when you merged it with the others, it dropped to 43.5 per cent, and we know that, and so did ours. Anyway, if you want to tell me you got 50 percent, whatever, stick your head in the sand, nothing changes. It's about who's lying and who's not. We're certainly not lying, and everyone knows it, and you know it. But I think it's a shame that you still have the nerve to come up here and talk while there's a party and candidates accused of all this corruption.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0199par0664	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0196par0665	Come on, that's enough! (Applause from MHP rows) So before you do that, get yourself cleaned up, get yourself cleaned up about other things. Look, the ECHR has been applied to, and the ECHR has filed a complaint against Recep Tayyip Erdogan and has accepted it. What are you talking about? Do you know where you'll be dealing with later? No matter how hard you try, you'll see what we've done, what we've been through, but no one will be able to save you. My respects...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0200par0669	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0201par0671	He threatened me, Mr. President, there's a threat. Does the group threaten the Vice President, the MPs? What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0200par0672	I didn't ask you, Mr. Scholar, I'm talking to Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0201par0673	But he threatened me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0200par0674	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0202par0675	Mr. President, I thank you, but when I'm spoken to here, you don't take a castle, and I draw your attention to it. Mr. Adan...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0203par0677	I didn't tell you, I didn't tell you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0202par0678	There's a group of vice presidents coming in here, saying different things about us. Mr. Tünce said we were corrupt, we were orphaned.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0204par0680	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0202par0681	That's what you said, you don't know.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0204par0682	Doesn't mean you didn't eat by taking votes. I said. There's a connection between the vote and...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0205par0683	Okay, that's what he said. On the subject of Mr. Halaçoğlu's speech, please speak in a clean language and let's take a vote. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0687	Mr. Slim, thank you. He confirmed our 45.5 percent, and I appreciated it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0207par0688	No, I said you've completed 43 for 45, one point for you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0689	Anyway... 43 or 45. People pulled the AK PARTY out of this trunk, and no matter what you say, it's over, March 30th. His account now belongs to the foreign merchant. Now, look, Mr. Slim says you're the reason for this. If the CHP votes for the CHP, the CHP votes for this one, you're the reason. We don't have any resources here. You're telling the truth. You were already an extra in this election. The parallel structure managed you, and the Internet media said: "This is what we're going to give here, this is what we're going to give it to you. This is what he did. You don't know.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0207par0692	Mr. President, you're listening, right?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0208par0693	Is that a clean language? What kind of group of vice presidents?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0694	You didn't even have a corporate personality. They said you hung pictures of a professor in Ankara, spent a lot of money on him, but you didn't have the man's votes in Ankara, the mayor's candidate. You didn't claim the crates. You let the voting tricks in those crates.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0209par0695	So you're a cheater?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0696	You didn't have one friend there. You let him go to other parties. You have not been able to hold the people's honors and their legal votes, like mother's white milk, and you have not been able to protect them.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0209par0697	So you've been cheating? Is that what you're admitting? He admits to cheating.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0698	And I say to Mr. Köse. You said you were among those who poured gasoline into the Madimak Hotel in Sivas. There is no more calumny, there is no more lies, there is no more immorality.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0210par0699	You're immoral. You've been a sectarian, a sectarian.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0211par0700	Mr. Köse, would you please take your seat?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0701	I'm not a sectarian.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0210par0702	You don't know what you're doing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0703	It's not that much of a lie, it's not that much of a vice...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0210par0704	You're dirty and you're a liar. You've been a sectarian here. You are the enemy of Alevi, the enemy of Alevi!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0212par0705	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0206par0706	And what you're saying, these lies you're telling, these slanders, they're not even parallelists. The parallelists can't hold a candle to you. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0212par0709	Mr. Elitaş, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0213par0710	Mr. President, can you...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0212par0711	If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0213par0712	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0212par0713	From now on, I'll give a minute to put an initiative on those who take the stand for bullying. There's no end to this. Our agenda is not to discuss election results here. We're talking about the MIT Law.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0214par0714	Mr. President, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0215par0715	Nothing will happen if you don't make a promise to Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0216par0716	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0717	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0218par0718	Mr. President, if you want to end these discussions, send Elitas out.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0719	Mr. Zozani, please... Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0219par0721	Mr. President, Mr. Elitaş is an extra in the MPP de MHP. He insulted the corporate personality of our party. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0722	Wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0219par0724	Why wait a minute? You gave him two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0725	Because for one minute, I've been extremely equal here, and I've given the group's deputy presidents the right to talk equally and equally, and I've promised the MPs who want it, but we need to cut it off somewhere. For as long as I ask you to speak clean language here, it is not heard.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0220par0726	It's Mr. Elitas, he's always picking on everyone.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0727	I'm taking the initiative. I have that right in the charter. From now on, I'll give you a minute in taunting -- I mean right now -- to rule out other bullying, other bullying in other departments. Mr. Slim, please, respect my savings.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0221par0729	Mr. Secretary, if you're going to treat everyone this way in this merger, in this session, I'm on my own.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0730	Yeah, look...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0221par0731	But, I repeat, you have to do it very seriously, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0217par0732	Look, Mr. Slim, I repeat: I'll give you one minute about the debate on this clause, but we'll move on to Article 8 as an argument, which is something else. I'll give you a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0222par0737	The party of Kuvaimilliya will not surrender to anyone. There is a Recep Erdogan who says, "What did you want?" He has an assistant who sheds tears at the Turkish Olympics. You have a Prime Minister who says, "It's over now."
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0223par0738	Mr. Slim, that's not what Birgül Ayman Guler says.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0222par0739	You've been a coalition partner for 12 years, and you're gonna say, "It's a parallel structure, it's a terrorist organization." You'll get through this. Do not associate with your former partners for twelve years, and do not try to patch it up for us today.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0224par0740	Not the patch, you surrendered.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0222par0741	He says, "Hold on to your votes." Look, who stole the vote in the trunk, stole the question in the exam, stole the money from the treasure? Let's ask that question.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0225par0743	What did Birgül Ayman Guler say?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0222par0744	In case you haven't heard, who stole the question from the exam, stole the money from the treasure, stole the ballot? I'm asking a question. I'm asking everyone's conscience. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0226par0746	Mr. Slim, thank you. And thank you for respecting my decision.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0227par0748	You've become a community service party.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0228par0749	Thou shalt kneel before the congregation, and thou shalt come today to make me a congregationer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0227par0750	You're on Twitter or something.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0229par0751	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0230par0752	Mr. Köse, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0229par0753	Mr. President, you heard, do I have to say?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0231par0754	You all kneel before the congregation and travel abroad.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit02spe0230par0755	Mr. Slim, please... I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0006	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0007	Mr. Elitaş has attacked me with very harsh words. I'd like to talk about teasing for a minute, without causing a new tease.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0008	Mr. Köse, according to Article 69, we've changed the position, we've changed the session according to 69/2, so I can't promise you because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0009	Okay, then, I have a very important matter to offer. I'd like to speak to you about my place for a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0010	Now...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0011	I've been insulted, Mr. President. You heard it, you heard it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0012	Now, you're forcing me to do something out of the ordinary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0013	But you did, so he said something very special. Is that gonna happen, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0014	Okay, but everyone answered each other, and that's why I had to take a break.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0015	Mr. President, I didn't answer. Besides, look, I'm not trying to...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0016	Mr. Köse, you've been on the stand, and you've responded many times. There's no end to this.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0017	Once, once, I won't cause any more taunts, without causing any more taunts.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0018	I have to do the procedure, Mr. Köse. Please, understand.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0019	I'm not...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0020	Please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0021	No, Mr. President, give me my seat, just a minute. Mr. President, give me my position. Look, I've been insulted.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0022	But you answered, and you insulted me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0023	I didn't, no, sir, I didn't.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0024	You insulted me, too, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0025	From the bench, Turkey insulted me from the bench of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0026	And you insulted me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0232par0027	Please, I mean... I'm such a cheap slanderer, such a liar, such a...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0028	Well, go ahead, just a minute... please, finish. Take your place, I'll give you my word for a minute. Everyone's responding to each other, causing new taunts. You're making me break the law here. Here, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0233par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, first of all, I will return to him what Mr. Elitaş said about me. I made an irony, understanding irony is an intelligence. Actually, Mr. Elitaş is a smart person, a really smart person, but he's got a temper, he's got a sweet rush. What's he gonna do? I don't know if they're going to do a minister or something, Mr. Elitas.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0230par0035	Please don't talk about targeting the person. Look, you're causing a new tease.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0233par0036	Last sentence, Mr. President, last sentence: For the past 12 years, they have co-operated with a structure called Parallel structure, and in a coalition, they have made this nation, this nation, this community, these patriotic soldiers, journalists, scientists, and today they blame the Republican People's Party, a partner in the parallel structure. I'd like to point out that I'm condemning this, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0234par0039	Thank you. Now, matter...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0235par0041	Mr. President, you're going up there without reading the Civil Code. Look, if you'd read it, you wouldn't have promised not to pick on me after taking a break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0234par0045	Now, I submit to you the motion of Mustafa Elitaş and his friends, the final motion on the matter...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0235par0046	Look, will you just listen... Go up there by reading that Civil Charter. You're going up there without reading the Civil Code, and you're ruling the House ignorantly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0234par0047	All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are four motions in Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second, third, fourth and fifth jokes of the proposed Law be changed in the following manner, under Article 8 and Law 2937. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli Hakan Çağoğlu Osman Yaşın Bak Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Those who have exposed the identity of members of the MIT and their families in any way or who have forged or changed their identity or used these forged documents will be sentenced to prison sentences of up to three to seven years. Information and documents under the first and second joke, whether it is published, published, spread or disclosed through all type of writing, visual, auditory and electronic mass media through radio, television, Internet, newspaper, magazine, and other media tools; Articles 9/6/2007 and Article 5187 of the Press Law, dated 4/5/2007, and in accordance with Articles 4/5/2007 and Article 6 of the Law shall be sentenced to nine years in prison. Those who avoid the use of the duties and powers under this Law will be sentenced from three to five years, from two to four years in prison for failing to fulfill their obligations to those who prevent it from being neglected or abused. If such verbs are processed by members of the MIT, the sentence will be increased to a third of the time." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of the current law bill 563 rows be removed from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Halil Aksoy Gülser Yıldırım Altan Tan Abdallah Levent Utility Secret by Sadak Demir Steel The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Osman Oktay Soşi Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services No. 563 and the National Intelligence Service Act on the Law on Change 8th Amendments. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is unconstitutional. Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Reşat Right Özcan Yeniçeri Mehmet Erdoğan Bkent Belen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0236par0088	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0234par0089	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0237par0090	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0234par0091	Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ik will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0238par0094	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 8 of the Law Proposal 563, which is currently in session. I hereby salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you for a moment that the bill we're discussing has been brought to the agenda of the High Assembly today on what events have occurred in the past. When Interior Minister Besir Atalay Bey was launched as co-ordinator of the Turkish Republic on 1 August 2009, with the opening of the Kurd first, followed by the post-democratic opening, the government was alarmed by the fact that the project was launched under the name of the National Union and Brotherhood Project. The first phase of the project, which threatened the unitary structure of the Republic of Turkey's state was to be carried out, but was again closely followed by the fact that the public had been closely followed by the Oslo talks on the Internet, as soon as it was published, and that the process of this meeting was under the rule of the first phase; the first phase of this project was to release of the terrorist organization's non-terrorism, but the second level of the Prime Minister of the Constitution was to be removed from the border, and the 10-15 per cent of the Constitution, as he would remember, and the second level of the Constitution. The third stage is the phase of autonomy, forgiveness and political freedom. Now we face a change in the MIT Law, one of the steps of phase two. The first amendment to this law is the amendment dated February 17, 2012, in Article 26 of the MIT Law. As it is known, since the person who made these talks was not MIT personnel that day, when the reports were shared with the public, he was taken into protective custody on a night as soon as the criminal charges were filed. After that, when the recent events and the public voice recordings of the March 30th elections again came to Syria on March 27th, when the war operation talks came to light, and the fact that there was an Undersecretary of the MIT faced with public opinion, now this law has come in a hurry. Dear MPs, today we are on the eve of a process that has been submitted to the International Criminal Tribunal and The Hague, in the petition of Syrian Turkish People's Republic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey, the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic, the Chief of State of the Republic of Turkey, and the Chief of Staff of the General Staff for war. Now you must understand what this law is intended for, dear lawmakers. Those who have made the state of the Republic of Turkey a war criminal in order to rescue the Undersecretary of MIT should be ashamed. Although this law is now open to violations of the Constitution, it has become a law involving freedom of communication in Article 22 of our Constitution and crimes involving freedom of press freedom in Article 28 of the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution is against our policy, and it must be removed from the proposal text. Dear lawmakers, the verbs, which will now be sentenced to two to eight years for crimes in the first joke of the clause, are now raised from four to ten years. Again, verbs that correspond to previous sentences between one year and five years are increased from three to seven years. Again, in the same way, crime committed earlier, especially through the media, has been increased by 50%. Dear lawmakers, if this is passed, we will enter a day in which the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey will be debated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, our motion is in order. I look forward to your support, my compliments.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0239par0105	Thank you, Mr. Light. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0240par0109	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit03spe0239par0110	We've got a roll call. Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Ashi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Pine, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özgündün, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Security, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Eyidoğan. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0239par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of the Kütahya MP Alim Ik and his friends' motion, the roll call on the request was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, I submit to you the motion of Mr. Scholar Light and his friends, those who agree... those who refuse... the motion has not been accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 8 of the current law bill 563 rows from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0241par0022	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0239par0023	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0242par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0239par0025	Mr. Demir Çelik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0243par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a pledge on Article 8 of the MIT Act. I'll share my thoughts about it. First, legislation must be to solve society's accumulated fundamental, historical, political, social, economic, democratic problems. Once we've removed the legislative activity from this original area and reduced it to an act of self-preservation, protection, and security, it's no longer a state of law. Trying to centralize everything by connecting it all to one person, to the center must be the result of a futile effort, which we hope to achieve. From the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to the Metropolitan Law, as a whole of the MIT Act, the name of this system is not democracy, nor is it democratic republic, where all kinds of transactions are reduced to one man, to a national chief in a dimension that exceeds authoritarianism. In particular, the revelation of the 90-year-old republic's history, which is now mandatory and mandatory, is May 1, 1977, September 6-7, as dark as Marash, Sivas, Gazi, Roboski, and has a share in these operations, the decision makers, executives of the operation, the establishment in the position of parliament, the law enforcement and judicial control. It's not called democracy, it's not what we want to do, it's not what the democratic state of law does. It's a shame to insist on doing the opposite of what should be, our work, our hopes, our people's expectations, it's a shame. In a country where we have 25 million poor people who are still looking for bread in a dump, who are still looking for food, who are still looking for food to feed, raise their hopes, meet their needs on legitimate ground, and who, as a person from June 12, 2011, will find three years of this activity, has grown tired of us and tired of dealing with this place with it every day. We want freedom, we want an honorable peace, an honorable future. It is imperative that this Parliament, which operates the legislature of freedom, honor peace, and security of the future, should put it in order. The Parliament, which is in the act of legislating, will not be able to get out of the business by transferring the democratic solution process to uncertainty from the Undersecretary of the MIT to a very effective, efficient, results-taking point. First of all, peace is as real as the inevitability of the honorable man, bread, water, air, and we are responsible for establishing the laws of a qualified negotiation. Instead of these laws, we risk our own future with an untouchable MIT, with some political operations, national and international, regional operations, and conditioning. If not on purpose, we'll put a bullet in our own leg, in our own feet, regardless of our intentions. We, as a country people who suffer more from intelligence, from secret organizations, from gladiators, from deep states, from state and parallel structures, must now see hope in freedom, in peace, in an honorable future. We don't need covert operational activities, which means that everything goes through transparent, open, accountable democratic governances, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0244par0033	Thank you, Mr. Steel. İstanbul MP Oktay Soşi will talk on the other motion. Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0245par0037	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I stand before you because of the proposal of the National Intelligence Agency, a very important and essential institution for us, like any state, because we are asked to create a very dangerous monster, even though we accept that you have done important services for our country. The MIT has certainly done important services to this country, but let's face it, the M.I.S., on the other hand, is an institution with a name on it in many unsolved cases. What's worse, MIT, unfortunately, is a hearing-and-visual institution, which has not been able to prevent even its president from being blindsided. The MIT, like you, has learned about the 17th and 25th December operations you've been complaining about, from newspapers like me. We still don't know where the MIT is in the nation's disaster. Needless to say, my friends, MIT has had a grave record of not having reported an intervention or a coup to the government over the years. However, you have received a suggestion regarding this organization that the Constitution does not leave a principle that is not broken. For example, MIT is granted the right to walk away without being punished for any crime it considers necessary without any law. As a matter of fact, the offer is to seize every vehicle by calling it a matter of duty without a court order, preventing the prosecutor from taking possession of his crime, unlawful listening, how do I know if you are a member of the MIT? The company secret, bank secret, professional secret, doctor, lawyer, journalist gives me rights and rights to demand and take everyone's secrets without listening. But there was nothing in the proposal that could control the MIT, which we had made so reckless. Now, we're happy to see that the Deputy Prime Minister is trying to make it up to you, but we still don't know what's underneath. The 8th article, which I have promised, also brings a grave arrangement. From the speeches of Mr. Atalay, we have learned that they are also trying to heal this substance. If they had insisted on the model they brought, they would have had to put the publisher or the newspaper in jail when there was a crime involved. The idea was to turn the newspaper owner into a ruthless censor. Mr. Bashir Atalay was right to give it up, and I'd like to thank you. But unfortunately, he didn't protect the journalist's right not to reveal his sources. However, for the first time, he had entered the law with the zeal of Mr. Atalay. It's a sad and desperate contradiction, my friends. I hope the Minister returns from this. Congressmans, these are not the only consensual provisions of the proposal we discussed. Let's say you own or run a company. One day you'll have someone you don't know, someone you don't know, and I'd like to know about your company -- for example, all your debts. I'm a member of the MIT. If he says, you'll have to do what he wants, or you'll have to risk prison for up to five years. Let's say publishing news or writing about MIT's activities is also a crime according to the law in effect. Okay, but the name of the Undersecretary of the MIT is Hakan Fidan Τ. According to this proposal, it is a crime that requires at least three years of imprisonment, because it is now the penalty for publishing about members of the MIT. Honored MPs, if you accept this proposal, please do not miss a point. Translate the name of the National Intelligence Agency into the national intelligence agency because that is the name of the monster you will create. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0246par0044	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second, third, fourth and fifth jokes of the proposed Law be changed in the following manner, under Article 8 and Law 2937. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Those who have exposed the identity of members of the MIT and their families in any way or who have forged or changed their identity or used these forged documents will be sentenced to prison sentences of up to three to seven years. Information and documents under the first and second joke, whether it is published, published, spread or disclosed through all type of writing, visual, auditory and electronic mass media through radio, television, Internet, newspaper, magazine, and other media tools; Articles 9/6/2007 and Article 5187 of the Press Law, dated 4/5/2007, and in accordance with Articles 4/5/2007 and Article 6 of the Law shall be sentenced to nine years in prison. Those who avoid the use of the duties and powers under this law will be sentenced from three years to five years, from two years to four years in prison for those who prevent them from fulfilling their obligations by negligence or abuse. If such verbs are processed by members of the MIT, the sentence will be increased to a third of the time." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0247par0055	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0246par0056	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0248par0057	We agree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0249par0058	Motive...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0246par0059	I'm reading the reason: The motion envisions criminal provisions for those who have exposed the identity of members of the MIT and their families in any way or who have forged or changed the identity of members of the MIT or used these forged documents. In addition, those responsible for the crimes committed against information and documents of the MİSCE are allowed to be subject to punishment by the Law on the Organization of Press Act 5187 and the Anti-Crimes of Article 5651 and those responsible for the Anti-Commitment of Crimes Through These Broadcasts, and those who publish these information and documents through all means, and those who publish them or disclose them. Penalties which will be carried out in the event of the execution of verbs committed by members of the MSI and punishments which will be carried out in order to prevent the use of duties and powers under the Law, to be prevented by negligence or abuse, and to not meet obligations. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers the 9th to 15th article. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Serindağ will speak on behalf of Gaziantep MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0250par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter. Before I go into my words on chapter two, I'd like to bring to your attention a few things: Members of lawmakers claim that the ruling party spokespeople have generally succeeded in the local government elections held on March 30th, and thus cleared the citizens of the Justice and Development Party and the alleged corruption committed by some ministers and Prime Minister of Justice and Development Party. Now, we need to see this first: this was a local government election, not a choice to launder, accept, or reject corruption. Where corruption can be cleared or convicted of corruption are the courts. So what is to be done is this: If you want to exonerate those who are responsible for these claims, give them the right to exonerate themselves and lead them to judgment. Unless that's done, you can't blame the Republican People's Party this way unless they're cleared. If they are exonerated, then Turkey will be satisfied and our citizens will be satisfied. Now, a second issue: Mr. Bashir Atalay stated that the decisions of the Council of Ministers were taken under consultation -- I mean -- were taken after the discussion. Now I ask Mr. Bashir Atalay, who was in the cabinet at the time: Was there or was there not a minister in your cabinet who learned his own resignation on the air? Yes, members of lawmakers, a minister -- part of your party -- found out about his resignation when he was on TV. Mr. Bashir Atalay knows that. We know more or less how the decisions of the Council of Ministers were made. We'd like to present this to the attention of our people. Otherwise, it's not what Mr. Bashir Atalay said. Dear lawmakers, the duties and functions of the MIT are being changed. See, the 4th Article of the MIT Law, which is Law 2937, is considered to be part of the 4th Amendment, and added to it. In addition, you know that MIT -- in the last joke of the current law -- can't be referred to other than state intelligence. It's just that MIT is tasked with state intelligence, but other than that, there are many tasks assigned to MIT, the National Intelligence Agency. So the tasks and functions of the MIT are being changed. The MIT is no longer an intelligence unit, it's also being converted into an operations unit, which is how the MIT is made into an internal security unit, and that's what we're saying. This is not in the interest of MIT; it is not in the power of the MIT; rather, it makes the MIT controversial, it removes the MIT from its original function, and puts it into political debates. So if we have to operate on intelligence agencies' intelligence right now, don't we have internal security units to do this operation? Are those internal security agencies unable to carry out their assigned duties properly, which is how the MIT is assigned to an operation? It's not like that. And what's that? Mr. Prime Minister and the government's view of security units, domestic security units, especially the Police Department has changed. He calls the police department and the judiciary a part of the judiciary in his own way. We say that for twelve years, did you not form a coalition with those you now call parallel structure? Didn't you run a joint government with them? What did you want, De Tayyip Erdogan? Didn't you say? With all of this in the open, do you think it's appropriate to throw the state department, state institutions, like this, to cover up corruption and bribery? Well, here I am warning the National Intelligence Agency authorities. This is not in the interest of that organization. This is an operation to lay the foundations of a full-fledged intelligence organization, which is entirely up to the government. We really shouldn't let that happen. I'm telling everyone. This is not for your benefit, nor is it for yours. According to daily events, you can't shape state units based on the conjunctive. And if you do, it'll come back to you like a boomerang. Mr. Prime Minister accuses the institutions of something that doesn't suit him one way or the other. And now the Constitutional Court is targeting the Prime Minister. Until yesterday, there were no praises he had not done to the Constitutional Court, he was praising his procedures and decisions, but now the Constitutional Court is calling on the Supreme Court to challenge the judges to a duel, as if they had already called off a law that was against the Constitutional Court, even though they knew it was against the Constitution. Does this look good on a prime minister? Of course, in democratic countries, in democracy, every institution has its own duties, and Parliament has its own, and the Constitutional Court has its own, and so do other agencies. Each institution, each state unit, will try to do its duty within the borders, within the tasks given to it. Now, look, I need to make it very clear that the people gave the Justice and Development Party power over the state, not the state. There's no party power, no state power. Only the ruling party rules the state. When we say this, AKP spokesman say: "Sir, during the Republican People's Party, the governors were governors, the interior ministers were secretary general." The problem is, someone knows, someone doesn't. The one who knows and the one who doesn't talk. Look, lawmakers, the Republican People's Party made this change in 1936. In 1936, I believe, in July. And it was removed in January 1939. For two and a half years, this change was in effect. You've been trying to turn the state into a party state for 12 years. The Republican People's Party did the opposite. The founders of the Republican People's Party were also the founders of the state. Yet they went on a multiparty regime. But you're taking the country from a multiparty regime to a state party regime. These people will certainly consider it. The Prime Minister will stop challenging everyone to a duel. I'd like to bring to your attention a few issues concerning Syrian policy. If Turkey had followed a balanced policy, followed a policy that would have brought all sides to the same ground, Syrian events would not have come to this level; this is the first. Second, the three key states of the Middle East have no ambassadors to the Republic of Turkey; there is no ambassadors to Egypt, there is no Israel, there is no Syrian. Look, valued lawmakers, the United States Foreign Minister can talk to the Syrian Foreign Minister, but there is no communication channel between the Republic of Turkey and its neighbour, Syria. We're asking if that makes sense to you. Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0251par0086	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0252par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. So I made a pledge to our group on the second part of the MIT Law Proposal. I salute you all. Of course, what is meant to be done with this law, what will this offer serve, which is very important to us. We've been asking that question all along. This proposal came to the agenda of the House, which we're talking about, and that's what we've been looking for in all our conversations. Now, since the talks just came up, it's safe to repeat them. If this bill is wiped out in the past and all the sins of the past don't exist, if it's counted, then we're objecting here, we've been objecting from the start. There are 17,000 unsolved cases on the shelves of Turkey's courts; the perpetrators are unaccounted for. With this bill, we are concerned that a sponge of the past or a veil is drawn over all these sins of the past. In fact, what you've listed here, the powers attributed to the MIT have been constantly used. We know, we know that's how they're used. For example, we know the weapons and equipment used for the activities of the Hezbulkontra at that time with the savings of the Governor of Batman, and everyone in Turkey knows that. He's the governor of Batman, and he admitted it. Now, you've placed it here in Article 11, where you've decided that all equipment and equipment will be provided to the MIT, without objection, and that it will be earmarked. Now that you've made the practice of the past legal, there's no difference. So we're talking about thousands of unsubs who are thought to be involved in the intelligence services of this state. You're bringing in a clause here, and you're making it legal to ensure that the documents and documents that MIT has in these matters are not disclosed here, and you're saying that they can't be explained in any way unless you want them to be. You're saying we're giving control of the MIT to the Parliament. So, if you're giving control to the Parliament, let's make the decision to share the documents and documents in the hands of the MIT into the Parliament's control; let the Parliament be firm on this matter, not the Undersecretary of the MIT. As long as the Undersecretary of MIT says it's a state secret, there's no value, there's no value, there's no value, there's no value, there's no value to the Parliament's control over the MIT. If the Parliament can really examine the MIT's practices in these matters as a whole, then this inspection will mean something. But as of what you've put in here, the Undersecretary of the MIT, no, sir, Parliament has given me this authority by law. Therefore, I have the authority of Parliament, and I will not share information with Parliament. There's no explanation for that. If we were to discuss it in that way, we would have done much more productive work together with other framework laws that would really serve Turkey's democratisation. Regarding this proposal, the most recent debate is that this proposal is related to the ongoing democratic solution and peace process, which has been discussed. If these talks were really meant to be created at least in terms of state mechanisms, we would understand that, but that's not the point. Not like this, the state is securing itself in this, setting fire to all but its existing laws, setting targets, putting them in target positions. We offered it at the beginning, so that it would be understandable -- if I remember the history at your disposal -- as of February 13, 2014, you're looking at the negotiating framework law proposal that we're moving to Parliament's agenda. Let's think about it together, since it is, let's strengthen the legal infrastructure together, make it clear. We'd expect it, but it's not going to happen unless you take it together. When you don't do the questioning of the past properly, you can't do anything. A number of arguments should be developed here to ease the public conscience. Turkey should be able to develop its polarization, social tension, along with its opposition to a number of arguments that will eliminate and eliminate the rift between social layers. But we see that the development of such an argument seems to be of no use to anyone. When everyone's fighting with each other, it's like they're getting credit for society. In fact, everyone loses together, fighting each other, losing this position to everyone. From the beginning, we express that Turkey needs to face its past with courage, to face the past. We're saying we need to face the past and develop a sense of legitimacy in this community. As long as you do not do so, all your attempts under the name of healing remain palliative and do not serve the purpose. As a matter of fact, it won't serve the purpose, Mr. Secretary. As long as we don't take a social confrontation and a halalization position, we don't have the chance to travel a length of barley. How many times has this been on the agenda of Parliament in these three years? How many times have the proposals of the Commission to investigate and confront the facts come to the agenda of this Parliament? So far, you've blocked your ears, reduced them to the number of fingers and rejected them. Now we make it clear that we are concerned. With this law, after this proposal has been passed, your past will be wiped out over all the unsolveds. We will never be able to reveal or reveal by whom the explosion occurred near Diyarbakır Runway Park on September 12, 2006; it will become a secret according to the bill. However, this is in the additional folders of Ergenekon cases, which are very clear and clear. It's in their own agendas in the handwriting of the men who planned it, how they planned it. He was never questioned. We've been discussing this for days, but JITEM has been perceived as a non-existent, non-existent rule. Can you or can you not expose JITEM activities, the destruction that JITEM has created in this country? If you can get it out, then the Governor of Urbana of the period will be able to come out and say, "I did something here." As long as you can't find out about this, Hussain Deniz, Nazim Babaoğlu, Muhsin Melih, and tens of others will be the number one suspect in the unknown that took place in Urbana because he's in charge of that period.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0253par0102	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0252par0103	Between 1990 and 1996, he served as governor of Urbana, and in his day, all of these unsolveds took place.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0253par0104	Mr. Zozani, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0252par0105	Either you're going to go out, you're going to share this information publicly, you're going to apologize to the public, or you're going to come out here and don't talk like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0253par0108	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr Mehmet Erdogan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0254par0111	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the second chapter of Law Proposal 563. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, it makes sense that the MIT Law we're discussing comes as a law proposal to our veteran Assembly. The absence of this amendment as a bill is a clear indication that the AKP's government's problem with the state is still not over. The AKP has seized power over all institutions for 12 years and has appointed its executives of all institutions, but as with this law proposal, it does not even trust the people it appoints for the changes it wants, and it does not even want them to be aware of this amendment. Mr. Lawmakers, the authorities, the people, they come and go, but the state is permanent, it's permanent. In this regard, it is important that the laws concerning the state's survival be brought into our great House as a bill of law. This proposal of the law is completely unsettled. The Prime Minister is dragging our country one step at a time towards the intelligence state. In addition, there is no question that this law violates many of our Constitutions, customs of our state, democracy and human rights. In a most simple way, this proposal is subject to the freedom of communication in our Constitution, the principle of the rule of law in Article 2 of our Constitution, the principle of judicial authority in Article 9 of our Constitution, the principle of equality in Article 10 of our Constitution, the principle of privacy of private life in Article 20 of our Constitution, the principle of our Constitution and the principle of our rights in Article 125 of the Constitution, the principle of every Article of our Constitution and the principle of our Constitution. This law has reduced the state from being an institution to a one-man theater. After the AKP came to power, we will eliminate military custody as an excuse for the 28 Februaryers who brought him to power. Now, when the law and the judgment, which he acted with that day, revealed his dirty laundry, he declared the law and the judgment an enemy. This very dangerous MIT Law, which we're discussing with the purpose of redesigning and rearranging law, brought changes to this place. If tomorrow he does the likes of what the police did to you, if he exposes the dirty laundry of your family, your ministers, your ministers, your appointed bureaucrats, will you destroy the state, or destroy MIT? What are you going to do? I find it helpful to remind you that such uncontrollable power will also be at your peril. Besides, this bill is a very serious pardon. So far, the PKK legitimises all illegal talks on TK construction. This, of course, will put our country through many problems that we cannot foresee in the coming period. But, by the way, it eliminates all investigations into these illegal negotiations, and then it completely blocks the way for any further investigation. Again, this law proposal allows the prosecutor to remove, learn and block any investigations that can be conducted against members of the Prime Minister and the government and its relatives during the preparation investigation. Dear friends, democracy is very different from other regimes, but the most important difference between democracy and other regimes is that the chosen ones answer. After this amendment, it is now possible to shut down all roads that require accountability of the chosen ones. Thus, this law also endangers the democratic structure of our country. One of the main drawbacks of this law proposal is that it makes IT an irresponsible authority. Even the president can be charged with treason. However, after this law proposal is adopted, the MIT will have more judicial assurances than even the President has, irresponsibility. No audit, no trial, and even the witness is left at the mercy of the Undersecretary of MIT. Sir, now that you've left, let's inspect this structure by the power of a parliamentary commission. For one thing, this audit can't be enough, and if it opens up under Parliamentary supervision, many issues on the security of the state will be opened to public information before its time. This is not true for the safety of our government and our nation. In addition, Parliament has the authority to oversee all institutions and organisations on behalf of the nation, particularly the MIT. Of course, we need to remember that until now, it is very clear how effective this parliamentary control is, especially in the AKP administration, how much altitude we have lost on this issue. For two years, we've discussed the budget in this Parliament without the Court's reports. In such a parliament, it is also pointless to defend and speak that parliamentary control is effective and adequate. Therefore, it is more pointless to wait for the Turkish Parliament's control of Turkey to reach its goal as long as the AKP's numerical superiority remains in parliament. Again, who will be responsible if the irresponsible structure with this proposal of the law comes to light, as an excuse for the security of the state, takes the people and the authorities he wants, questions and destroys, the perpetrators, who will be responsible, and who will be responsible for that? And that's really one of the most important things to think about. What about the freedom of enterprise in our country, since this uncontrollable structure can access all of our financial information? What if tomorrow people's accounts are emptied, or someone sticks them in the face and forces them into financial responsibilities that we can't imagine? I mean, is it still about controlling the capital that you can't convert to AKP? In Article 9 of the Law proposal, all demands made under the duties and powers given to the MIT are primarily met, and the legal and criminal responsibility of those who meet these demands is not born. These provisions apply if there are different provisions in this Law and other laws that regulate the same issue. Now, according to our meri code, illegal orders are not carried out, they are crimes given by whomever is given the charge of crime. I mean, after such an arrangement, how is there going to be an investigation into the crimes involved in carrying out a criminal order? Again, how will the rights and laws of those who have been harmed because of these criminal orders be protected? It's a curious subject. Again, in Article 10 of this law, the fact that members of the MIT cannot bear witness is also a freak. In Article 11 of the Law, the public institutions and institutions and other institutions and institutions may temporarily or without charge be granted to the MİT, regardless of the regulations of other laws, in the situations in which the written tasks are needed. This is not an understandable arrangement. Even in mobilisation, there is no law on how to confiscate property, material belonging to individuals and organizations, although it is clear how to protect the rights of individuals and organisations. What kind of a state is that, what kind of law is that, is there such a thing in any other country in the world? In this matter, I especially urge Mr. Bashir Atalay to inform our great Assembly and us. In the end, this law proposal effectively eliminates the principle of secrecy of the preliminary investigation into the Penal Code. The Prime Minister's members, the Prime Minister's personal directives, the person who follows their rights and freedoms, democracy, political parties, who are essential elements of democracy, are completely destroying freedom of the press. The legalisation of such a law offers serious dangers for our country that we cannot foresee. With the legalisation of this law proposal, the ministries, other institutions and organisations in our country will now become the back yard of the CENTURY. It is sad for our country, our nation, our democracy, our future that such a proposal is being discussed in our Veteran Assembly. In the end, it has to be known that we criticize this false offer and say, "Of course, the state will be a National Intelligence Agency, but we read it backwards and say no. Therefore, I would like to remind all of our lawmakers to be wise while there is time, to have common sense prevail in our great Parliament, and to remind all of our MPs that this proposal, which will darken our future, should not be lifted from Parliament and legalized. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0255par0132	Thank you. Nüğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu will speak on behalf of him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0256par0136	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my behalf on behalf of the valued lawmakers, the State Intelligence Services and the Law on National Intelligence Service. I salute you all. The National Intelligence Agency was founded on July 6, 1965, in accordance with the National Intelligence Agency Act and the Prime Ministership. This law has been in effect for over 18 years. In time, new law studies have been required in order to address the setbacks that have arisen in practice and to make them in line with the changing world conditions. This law has been replaced by State Intelligence Services 2937 and the National Intelligence Service Act since 1 January 1984. In Law 2937, the establishment of the Organization and its main tasks are listed in general, and other issues related to internal organisation have been left to secret regulations. The duties and responsibilities of the MIT are extremely important to the government's sovereignty and background. The National Intelligence Service must carry out this mission effectively, efficiently, quickly. Therefore, it is important and essential that MIT be adapted to the needs of the age and reshaped according to current threats. The State Intelligence Service and National Intelligence Agency Act we're talking about, the Law Proposal for Changes, that's what it's all about. Dear friends, first of all, what does the law bring? Based on its main topics, MIT's field of duty has been cleared and is heavily routed to foreign intelligence, national defence, counterterrorism, international crimes and cyber security areas. The MIT's infrastructure based on IT technologies is being strengthened. In particular, the legal infrastructure of activities against cyber espionage is being created through communication technology and the opportunities provided by the Internet. This is especially important for unauthorized listening and preventing foreign intelligence activities. The institution, which has been trying to adapt to changes in the world and Turkey for 30 years with regulations, is being restored to the same technical opportunities and legal infrastructure as the world's powerful intelligence institutions. Actions carried out with previously secret regulations are clearly and transparently discussed in the law. The legal permits and resources of police and police intelligence are still being provided to the MIT. Dear MPs, as you can see, all changes in the interests of our country. Generally, the proposal for this law aims to make MIT's field of duty more specific. Foreign security, national defences, anti-terrorism, resisting intelligence and fighting cybercrimes are sought to develop activities. While all the world's intelligence organisations strive to adapt themselves to the changing and developing conditions, it is imperative that the MIT stay behind as well. This bill will provide the legal basis for this need. Up until today, the MIT has weighed more internal security and internal intelligence. An important goal of the proposed law is that the MIT is quickly authorized for foreign intelligence and is brought to operational opportunities. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this law has become essential due to the compliance and rational needs of MIT's intelligence legislation into the needs of the age. For example, 30 years ago, there was no threat of cyber terrorism. In order to work on current threats such as this, you must provide opportunities for the MIT. Looking at the structure of intelligence agencies around the world, it seems that their powers are far above those planned to be given to the MIT. On the other hand, our government considers the transparency of intelligence and the opening of civilian control. It has also been explained by our Deputy Prime Minister that there has been legal work done by Parliament to oversee the MIT, and hopefully an arrangement for parliamentary control of intelligence services will be carried out as part of this proposal. Dear friends, the prevention of many acts that the public does not know about is also due to intelligence studies. An intelligence agency is the reputation of a country. For our nation and our country, with great sacrifices, there is a need for a certain seriousness and sensitivity in the discussions of those who are highly sensitive. It is important for the MIT to take advantage of the law - known protection measures of members of the MIT. I wish our nation the good fortune of the law proposal we're discussing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0257par0146	Thank you. On behalf of him, the last speaker is Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0258par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're discussing a really important law proposal, we're negotiating. Intelligence is an essential necessity for a state, even any institution, to do its duty. The intelligence agency has been an indispensable institution of our government tradition, which we can call hundreds of years, thousands of years, in a sense, the carrier backbone of our nation's ability to form a state. The National Intelligence Agency, the future of our government, the future of our nation, a nation that we all need to tremble over, and to be very powerful. So, in my opinion, the National Intelligence Agency Act we discussed shouldn't have been prepared like this, it shouldn't have been negotiated like this. I strongly believe that our talks on the National Intelligence Agency here do not give the National Intelligence Agency power. So, in this sense, like so many times, I feel the need to warn the government again. If such laws were prepared in a consensus with groups, if they were debated enough in the commission, if the General Assembly was met with motions, if the whole Parliament was met together as Parliament, I suppose there would be some harms to be done, while the desire to benefit would be avoided. I believe that such a alleged violation of the Constitution, such a controversial proposal or bill, has brought harm to the National Intelligence Agency, which should be the apple of the eye of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, we are forced to make a choice in this matter. The National Intelligence Agency is indispensable, but it's not possible to say that we've been able to maintain the security property of the National Intelligence Agency or the task of securing security, or the principle of democracy, the state of law that our nation has worked so hard to maintain, that we've really been able to keep an eye on it. The National Intelligence Agency is given a wide range of powers. It's necessary. Or in a power that has completed 11 years in such a process, prior to an election, there was a need for this arrangement, which brought such broad powers to the MIT, during which certain allegations and accusations of corruption were discussed, and with such broad powers, the development of immunity armor was due to what, and what need, and what, indeed, it is a little hard to understand. Of course, it's essential that being a democratic state, being a legal state, every institution, every authority-user, can be accounted for, audited. That's the most controversial aspect of this law proposal. There's no way that the institution that you're trying to set up here with the motion will be very specific, or that it will satisfy the criticism at this point. By your authority, you undermine the equal citizenship law of our Constitution. Every institution is controlled by the law, by the judiciary, but the National Intelligence Agency is out of control. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be, the way it's supposed to be, the way it's supposed to be, the way it's supposed to be. On one thing, I'd like to thank you for the change you made with the motion for freedom of the press. But I mean, it was a need to think about it in advance and keep things from being talked about so much. With this arrangement, I hope, I hope that the National Intelligence Agency will protect its duties first... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I hope he'll do better at the point of protecting the Prime Minister, thank you, pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0259par0160	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Congressmans, we will now begin the question-answer process. We're 15 minutes out. We'll process seven and a half minutes of this time as a question, another seven and a half minutes as an answer. There are lawmakers entering the system. I'll start with the questions in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0260par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how true are the allegations that the Turkish Republic of Turkey, which was recently reflected in the media, was led by a group of 4-5 ministers, 4-5 bureaucrats, about 10 people? What features does this Shia team have, and who is in it? If these allegations are true -- you were expected to make a statement about this so far -- why didn't you make this statement? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0261par0167	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0262par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when and in what way did the proposed MPs request information from the MIT? Since this briefing was held at the Internal Commission, why were not all members of the Commission called to the meeting? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0263par0171	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0264par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary, you know, there have been some studies done in this law: special courts have been established, legal regulations have been made, we will establish the rule of law, not the law of seniors. When some investigations were launched into theft, corruption, the rule of law was put aside, and all the prosecutors and judges who did so came up with similitudes such as "ajan," "Hashashi" and "Hashhashi." Now, you're giving this MIT a lot of extraordinary authority. Do you think there's a possibility of a parallel MIT showing up tomorrow when you or the Prime Minister don't like something? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0265par0176	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0266par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. After the December 17th-25th operations, I'd like to know how many employees have been assigned to the National Intelligence Agency and the Police under the name of the parallel state. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0267par0180	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0268par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the MIT Proposal 563 we are discussing is granted unlimited wiretaps without a court permit, like the KGB in the former Soviet Union of Socialist Republics, Iraq and Syria. Are they not able to listen to the citizen as he wishes, and is that not contrary to the Constitution? While the Prime Minister is complaining about unlawful wiretaps today, isn't this law legitimizing unlawful listening? Won't that make him afraid of a citizen's shadow?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0267par0183	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0269par0184	Thank you. Sir, Recep Tayyip Erdogan has decided to establish a fascist dictatorship in Turkey. He needs an armed organization to maintain his dictatorship. As an armed organization, he also builds MIT. It's authorized to kill all kinds of people, seize everyone's wealth, eliminate basic rights and freedoms, and suspend basic rights and freedoms. It's the Tunceli law that was passed in 1935, so there are some people who decide to be executed, and he takes the death power from the House and gives it to some things. I mean, come on, come on, we can understand the terms of a law like this, but what kind of conscience is it to bring such dictatorial laws into a country? First of all, do you think you're going to rule this Turkey by trampling on democracy, rights and freedoms in Turkey? All these fascists...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0267par0187	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0270par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in Article 9 all demands are carried out first, and those who meet these demands are not born with legal and criminal responsibility. As far as we know, illegal orders are not to be carried out. And you put it above all other laws, and that law is enforced in case there are other laws that are incompatible with other laws. Is it a constitution, is it an international contract, is it legal to take authority over all laws and laws? You have the authority to commit crimes without supervision and to account for them, and you have the authority to avoid responsibility. Won't all of this result in the lack of punishment for illegal transactions? I expect your answers on these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0271par0191	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0272par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has appointed 2 MIT members in opposition talks with the Constitutional Party (PKK) in Oslo. Have you authorized the MET authorities to sign an agreement under the supervision of England as a referee state? Which side called England as a state? Is one of the reasons why this law was brought in is to legitimize orders to join the Syrian opposition in the war in Syria against the existing law? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0273par0195	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0274par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. The media now reports that 300 billion Turkish liras from MIT's covert grant have been sunk in the stock market and have been sent to retirement and closed down by no investigation into the person involved. What is the accuracy of this claim by Mehmet Eymür, former head of the MIT counterterrorism Agency, and is it considered to be an investigation to clarify this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0275par0199	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0276par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Reports and comments from the press yesterday regarding the third article of this proposal have come to a legal status in negotiations with the baby killer in Imran. Is Mr. Minister participating in this assessment? That's what I want to know. How many acts of terror have occurred after the local elections were made on what he said he was doing very successfully, what we call treason, what they call "institution"? That's what I want to know. And on October 14, 2013, a meeting in İmralı, published in the newspapers about the baby killer's request for an assistant assistant assistant staff at MIT, is that correct? Is there a request for staff in other institutions of the state for the killer in Imran? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0277par0204	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0278par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. In the current proposal: (MIT will be punished with imprisonment if it does not ask for documents, information from the public institutions it wishes for.) So, Mr. Secretary, in that case, if a political party does not give away its strategic programme on the party, or so on, will the political party still be punished if it does not give it to the MIT? That's one. Second: MIT and...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0208	Time's up, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0278par0209	How, sir?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0210	Time's up, seven and a half minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0278par0211	Well, thank you, Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0212	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0280par0214	It wasn't over, it wasn't over, it was 20 seconds away.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0215	We said seven and a half minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0281par0216	Yeah, it's just been filled up.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0217	I'm looking at that watch.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0282par0218	He's making a mistake there.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0281par0219	Your watch was wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0220	That's not a watch.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0283par0221	You're looking at the clock, it's right twice.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0222	I'm looking at the clock right in front of me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0284par0223	You've had 20 seconds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0285par0224	You can't run it anyway.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0279par0225	I can't run this place anyway, so I'm looking at the wrong time, right? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. He's asking me a question about myself, and I don't really have to answer that question, but... someone I care about like Mr. Light is asking me. We don't even explain the things that come out here and there, the false information, the information, the slander. I'm a strict Hanefi, everyone knows that. I'm a Turkmen, and I'm Hanefi. Everyone knows I'm strict in the household, and I have my reasons there. To blame people, fashion in this day and age, someone is either Iranian or Shia or this, it's... of course, friends, these aren't even things to take seriously and respond to, but I answered. At the meeting last night, dear friends, the MET had to inform the MPs. Two motion holders, or, more accurately, two of our bidders, received information from friends of the MIT, while preparing their proposals. I didn't have any information either, so I heard that they were being discussed in the Commission, so I didn't have any prior information from that meeting or from that information. Mr. Yilmaz: If there's something going on in the MIT, such as parallel construction and so on. Of course, we all want to create a powerful intelligence agency that is within the law but belongs to a powerful state. I mean, here, here, here's the Prime Minister's private intelligence, the government of communication, we don't accept these terms. After all, it's a law in 1984, and we're trying to update it. As you can see, I've been present here before, so not with classified documents; we want open, removed from Parliament, run by the M.S.I.S. by a certain law, that's our effort. And we'll have a motion in a moment, a new matter violation. Of course, the control of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will also be the most important innovation here, perhaps one of our most important achievements while the law is being discussed. About the transfers here, Mr. Right asks, how many? I can't do that right now. Mr. Lightning is asking about the wiretaps. So we've expressed it from here before. Friends, our esteemed lawmakers, of course, it's impossible to accept this psychology of listening in society, it's wrong, we're all complaining. To prevent that, you know, you've already passed a law here with your approval, and there's been a law against the law that's been passed, even though it's very difficult in terms of law enforcement, with a severe criminal court and an alliance. The reason for this is that it's not very reasonable in terms of law enforcement, but we've suggested that we make it so difficult... how can we defeat that feeling in society? We're doing the same thing here. So there's no listening without a verdict, and it could be a court-ordered wiretap. If there's a delay in the judicial decision, a preconceived verdict can be made, then a verdict can be made, and I'll rephrase that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0287par0234	The MIT, which has that authority, gets what it wants.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0235	There's no law here, of course, what Mr. Günal said. It's information that these intelligence people want something from something in Article 9 and so forth. It's not like I'm just gonna randomly go and ask for some information, you guys. Those who already know about it in the process know about it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0288par0236	But it's above all laws, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0237	They've got files, they've got motive. If you want information from somewhere, there's a format for it, so it's within the law, it's not fun. Of course, we all know that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0289par0238	So he can ask a political party, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0239	Whether it's from the political party or elsewhere, if there's any need for information... we don't form a new organization... that's been running these things for a long time, our M.I.S. and our other institutions. We're not talking about anything that doesn't have a tradition here, guys. We're making legislation, we're getting a little bit more into the law, we're pulling our National Intelligence Agency into the legal ground, we're taking them into open parliamentary control, and we're hoping they'll be more secure when they're doing their job. So, basically, that's why we're supporting this offer as a government, and I'm being honest with you. There's nothing else to look for. Of course, it's everybody's will, you know, what's in Oslo, what's in there, what's in there, what's in there, what's in there. Now, we're in the process of solving, dear friends, and I've expressed here that we're not running anything in secrecy. Everyone knows every step of the way, and we believe we're running something for the good of Turkey. Others may call it something else. There's no forgiveness here. Everyone pays for what they've done, what they've done, what they've done, what they've done wrong on every mission. We're just -- we've been on the stand before, and we've been talking about this the last time -- we're a government that's taking a little bit of a risk. I mean, we don't keep it there so we don't take risks if the country has savings problems. I mean, even if we take too many critics, even if we see the risks of politics, we risk finding radical solutions to solve those problems. We've got a lot of courage. I can tell you that. Mr. Halaçoglu asked about something today. I asked my friends, and they said it was out of the question. I'm transmitting that answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0290par0242	He left yesterday. This is the head of the agency, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0243	Other than that, Mr. Turkoglu, we conduct something very clear about the negotiations with the PKK, as I've just said. Only those who conduct such talks in public, within the government, should be more comfortable with those who take such duties.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0291par0244	Isn't that status?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0245	Now, I've told you before, if the A.D.A., who does this kind of job, calls in an interview, the Undersecretary doesn't do it. I'm the one who gave the order.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0291par0246	He doesn't call you because of the interview, he calls you from something else, he calls you if there's a crime.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0286par0247	The government gives orders, the government takes responsibility. So we take all of these risks and responsibilities. We just need to give him the opportunity to do his job better and make it easier. I mean, that's what serious, big government's supposed to do. That's all I'm saying in a nutshell. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0292par0249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are four motions on the 9th article, which I will have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current Law proposal be changed in the following way, in the framework of Article 9. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bünyamin Uzbek Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Osman Yaşın Bak Hakan Çağoğlu Article 28 of the Law No. 9 - 2937 has been changed in the following way. MADDE 28 - Any request made to the MIT within the scope of the duties and powers vested in this Law is primarily met, and the legal and criminal responsibility of those who meet these demands is not born. These laws are enforced if there are different provisions in these Laws and other laws that regulate the same issue." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 563 Orders of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Order 9th Proposal for Change We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Halil Aksoy Yen Gülser Yıldırım Secret by Erol Dora İdris Baluken Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services No. 563 and the National Intelligence Agency Law Order 9 of the Law Proposal to Change. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is unconstitutional. Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Alim Iş Born Belen Reşat Right Mehmet Erdogan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0293par0286	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0292par0287	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0294par0288	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0292par0289	Mr Mehmet Günal will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0295par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, Mr. President, I apologize for the tone of your previous hearing, but I also want to say that I'm right because he is the mute devil who is silent against injustice. Mr. President, it's our duty to shout where there's injustice, so we'll keep saying it because this law itself is preparing the infrastructure of injustice and oppression, so we have to say it here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0296par0295	Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Günal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0295par0297	I thank you. There may be hard words from time to time, but the truth is, he knows we're right. Now, really, here is the infrastructure of a lawless, law-enforcement system. While our friends were discussing the general, Mr. Erdogan had just stated the articles on the Constitutional objection to the chapter. I've asked Mr. Secretary, but he's in the middle of it -- you're creating something above the law, above the Constitution, above international contracts. So no one can touch it, no one can touch it, the law of the MIT above everything, do everything, do everything, do no accounting, no judgment passed by other laws, everything he says is dictated, done in wine. No? He'll be screwed. Yeah, what kind of understanding is that? Can such a law be written? I really don't understand. I asked the Minister, but he got away fast. Such a thing is said of public officials... who prevent the use of written authority by negligence or abuse. If what you're giving me isn't in accordance with the law, Minister, how can you punish me if I'm not doing it as a bureaucrat because it's against the law?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0297par0302	No.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0295par0303	If other laws are incompatible, sir, this will not happen.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0297par0304	I need instructions.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0295par0305	Now, this is against the Constitution. On the other hand, you're covering up other illegalities. Mr. Türkoglu has just asked, but Mr. Minister says there is no such thing. It is, like honey, an arrangement to ensure that both Oslo talks and the Imran talks are not open to a legitimate issue, and that they can also clear past talks and not open investigations into them. No matter how illegitimate, illegitimate work you've done, it's a cover-up of the proceedings that have been done so far, which will bring you to trial in the Supreme Court tomorrow, there's no other explanation, it's also illegal. Now, you're doing something interesting. On the one hand, it's about MIT... and I'm going to give you another example here, Mr. Secretary. I marveled at the Prime Minister's statements, and he says: "These are traitors. " Yesterday he speaks again. He stopped the trucks of the MIT, these policemen were brought in, okay, law enforcement, evacuation order, ▪ Judges who did this are traitors. ▪ Is there such a legal concept? I mean, I don't understand how you can tell a judge that he's a traitor. I mean, if he's guilty of something, because of his faith... What did the Minister just say? Did he say anything heavy about his own beliefs? I don't need to answer. Did he say? He did. What do you care if he obeys the law, what sect, what view, what congregation? If he obeys the law, obeys the rules, obeys the Constitution, can such discrimination be done? I couldn't believe my ears or my eyes because I saw it on the screen, Mr. Secretary. Now, in that truck -- I'm asking you again -- if there was illegal money to launder, who didn't do their job? If that's the case, I'm saying it needs to be investigated, why are you blocking it? It's being investigated, it's going to trial, because the judge didn't hold what the prosecutor said, because the judge released it... which means it hasn't been concluded yet, that the prisoner is not going to continue, this case will continue, these judges are traitors. The law you brought is covering it. Nothing will be said from now on. Now, with all due respect to the Prime Minister, is there such a state of law? What that judge said is true. ▪ What happened to the President of the Constitutional Court? I thought you said it all the time yesterday. I thought you said he was a very democratic, Western Supreme Court. He's unofficial for canceling two things! What do you mean, national? I don't understand who's national or who's not. It's really all mixed up, and it's not really a legal state anymore. We said everyone is equal in front of the law, but the Prime Minister is on his way to breaking no law. This MIT proposal, along with all of its articles, is a legal arrangement for the establishment of the dictatorship and the empire of fear, aimed at covering up the unlawfulness. He has already expressed his intentions here, calling the President of the Constitutional Court and the judges "the traitor" and "the traitor." We need to get back this way as soon as possible. Everybody needs the law. Tomorrow, when you're replaced by these powers, it says that if others try to knit something for you, then you'll understand, I give you respect.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0298par0311	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The motion is to vote...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0299par0315	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit04spe0298par0316	I was going to submit the motion to your votes, but there is a request for a roll call. Mr. Tün, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Young, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Kuruturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Pavey, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Atsector, Mr. Güven. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0298par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and his friends' motion, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, I submit to your votes the motion of Antalya MP Mehmet Günal and his friends: those who agree... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 563 Orders of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Order 9th Proposal for Change We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0300par0022	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0298par0023	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0301par0024	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0298par0025	Mr. Idris Baluken will be speaking on the motions. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0302par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the motion that the 9th article be removed from the text of the law. When we look at this material, we are faced with an arrangement that is also exempted from the crimes they have committed as part of their mission, which brings them a great deal of legal and criminal armor. An arrangement that opens up an unlimited area to the scope of the MIT staff's mission, which, so to speak, brings full immunity to all MIT personnel, is both against the Constitution and against international law. Therefore, we say that this clause must be removed from the proposal of the law, and we expect all MPs to support this motion. Because there's a danger here that, in the name of the state, we're discussing a legal basis for exposing crimes in the past, when there's a dark date ahead of us on how to cover up the murders that have been committed in the past. In the past -- our friends have mentioned -- there are 17,000 perpetrators who have been committed within the state's knowledge. Businessmen, politicians, lawmakers, journalists were executed in the middle of the street on what plans? How have those who have committed these murders ever been protected? With such a burning problem ahead of us, you are now breaking the law with this clause.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0303par0031	Mr. Speaker, wait a minute... Congressmans, there's a great hum in the hall, please, I'd like you to remain silent. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. I'll add it to your time.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0304par0034	So you're bringing in an arrangement that allowed the old contgerilla murders to be legitimized today and put on a legal basis for the Gladio murders. So, as part of the mission, if you could determine that he killed a businessman in the highest interest of the state, and you could also find that he killed a journalist, a politician, you wouldn't be able to run any criminal and legal responsibility with this arrangement, unfortunately. Therefore, this error must be abandoned at once. Look, this dark history concerns everyone in this country. MIT happens, other intelligence organisations become armies; what has been done in this country from the founding of the republic to the Kurds so far, what has been done to the Alevis, what has been done to the Islamic community, what has been done to the leftists, what has been done to the socialists, what has been done to the socialists, what has been done to the past, and what has been done to the past. We don't know the many dark murders that have been committed in Çorum, Marash, and Sivas. Again, we don't know what intelligence agencies are planning for the murder of Musa Anter, who is on the shelf of this state, the massacre of the Abstinents in the process of a solution, the planning of the Roboski massacre. When you brought in a legal arrangement here, our expectation was to reveal these dark plans that had been done in the past, as well as to predict an arrangement that would pave the way for possible dark planning in the future. Today, when you follow the press, there are numerous counts of crimes related to the activities of intelligence units in Syria. Whether it's a bet or a fact, it's actually the duty of this House and the government to reveal it. Let's keep it from the allegations of using chemical weapons, as well as the support given to the gangs fighting against Kurds in Rojava, sheets of information reports of what the intelligence organisation has done today as well as attempts to reverse Kurdish people's gains in Rojava, strangle them across the border. There's a need for legal arrangements for them to be discovered. If you don't do that, you'll walk away from the norms of the European Union, and you'll walk away from the norms of the democratic state of law, a state of intelligence. Therefore, we respectfully welcome the General Assembly's motion to remove this proposal from the law proposal, especially from the 9th article, which we are all critical of.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0305par0039	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. İstanbul MP Ali will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0306par0043	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, yes, MIT, after all, national intelligence is the eyes and ears of the country. Of course, every state will have an intelligence agency, and this agency that has the eye of the state will gather intelligence for the country's interests, analyze it, present it to the relevant units of the state, or the political government will take the necessary measures against the country's future, against its security. If that's the case, that's fine, but that's not the law you brought in. You brought this to us in a hurry, panic, panic -- especially since you didn't trust the police, which began with the late December 17th investigation, because you didn't trust law enforcement, even internal intelligence, even as a law proposal that regulates operational authority, even almost legal law enforcement. This law is completely, in fact, contrary to the Constitution as a whole. Because, dear lawmakers, our Constitution says in Article 6: "Official is for the unconditional nation." Yes, the Turkish nation uses its sovereignty in the framework of the principles set by the Constitution. What are the organs in charge? According to the 7th Amendment, it is the authority of the High Assembly; it is the authority of the Council of Ministers. Article 9: The jurisdiction is used by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish Nation. And again, the 10th article of the Constitution contains the decree that everyone is equal to the law. Again, in accordance with the principle of the legality of crime and punishment, the issue will not be heard, even if it is given in writing. Public officials who listen to this can't get rid of responsibility. But you're bringing in an arrangement in Article 9 of the 9th article, which you say is: "Any request made to the MIT is carried out primarily in accordance with the duties and powers given to it, and those who do so have no legal or criminal responsibility." Sir, you will now say: "Go to the Constitutional Court." I mean, it's always like this, your view of law and constitution, your understanding of democracy, the state of law. It's happened before, we said about HSYK: it's against the Constitution. We went to the Constitutional Court, and he cancelled it. Well, according to the Constitution, we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which interprets the Constitutional Court alone, but it's wrong. You hit from the ground, you almost say, "Sir, it's the Constitutional Court." Dear friends, by the way, what happens when you go to the Supreme Court and you get canceled? You're doing what you're doing. So please, I beg you, this law will also return from the Constitutional Court, and I warn you, it will be cancelled, but don't be wrong. We are trying to build up constructive opposition as opposition, and we are trying to support you. Mr. Secretary said something the other day when he was talking, he said, "Sir, the M.I.S. can talk to terrorist organizations, the elements that threaten national security. Fifteen years ago, he meets again today. Mr. Secretary -- look, I don't know if you've read the Ergenekon indictments, but in your logic, Ergenekon was also using the PKK because members of the Special Forces Command met with Apol's lawyers. This indictment was written, so people spent months and years in prison. With that logic, you'll have to apologize if the MIT meets. Well, if the MIT meets with terrorist organizations that threaten national security, if the nation and its undistributable integrity are not held accountable... would such a thing be logical, dear friends? Therefore, this clause is contrary to the Constitution. You're bringing in something that the Minister will be responsible for, because of Prime Minister MIT, will not be responsible when he gives the mandate and authority of the MIT, and the person who enforces it will not be responsible. For example, it has recently been on the agenda, and in the past, many of the MIT's actions have been said to support terrorist organizations in Syria. The chemical weapon there is a crime against humanity. What happens if he commits a crime committed by the International Court of War Crimes, and you're going to protect it? Therefore, I say, "Do not give to this law against the Constitution, but accept it." I respectfully salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0056	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the current Law proposal be changed in the following way, in the framework of Article 9. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Article 28 of the Law No. 9 - 2937 has been changed in the following way. MADDE 28 - Any request made to the MIT within the scope of the duties and powers vested in this Law is primarily met, and the legal and criminal responsibility of those who meet these demands is not born. These laws are enforced if there are different provisions in these Laws and other laws that regulate the same issue." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0308par0067	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0068	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0309par0069	We agree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0310par0070	Motive...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0071	I'm reading the reason: With the motion, the final joke of the 28th article in existence has been made parallel to this arrangement, since the sentence has been moved to Article 27, which is also specified. The matter header is also being made in line with the change made. All those in favor of the motion...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0311par0075	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0076	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the motion... Well, there's a disagreement between the clerks, let's do it with the electronics. I'll start the clock, give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0312par0081	He's five minutes cool!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0082	I really didn't think so, Mr. Çelebi, I really didn't. That's a shame. I wouldn't dream of it. I don't look at the world with doubts. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes:
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0313par0086	But you didn't ask, Mr. President... those who didn't agree?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0087	I did. Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0314par0089	This means that murder is permitted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0315par0090	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0091	Article 10 of...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0315par0092	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement in accordance with Article 60, sir, before we go to Article 10.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0316par0093	It's a clause that frees murder.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0094	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Acar, I'm listening to your Deputy Director of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0317par0096	I'd like a statement according to Article 60, sir. I needed a technical assessment, and I'd like to share it with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0307par0097	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Hamzacebi. Two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0317par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. The ruling party's motion for Article 9 has just been passed by the vote. According to the motion, the frame of the proposal is redesigned to Article 9. Technically, there's nothing wrong with that, of course, in context, we don't agree with that motion, it's a different matter. However, the motions made earlier by the ruling party group regarding the 3rd and 8th clauses of the proposal are changing the relevant clauses of the National Intelligence Service Act 2937, not the text of the proposal. The way those proposals are written is completely different from the way this motion is written. Thus, the relevant articles of Law 2937 have been changed, as written in those motions, not in the proposal text. I remind the Presidential Court, the President of the Laws and Decisions of this matter. If this law comes out of the House, it has to be regulated accordingly. The Chairman of Laws and Decisions should not accidentally comment that the proposal text on those substances has been changed because the motion has aimed directly at changing the relevant articles of Law 2937, and it has been accepted that way. This is for the information of the General Assembly and the Presidential Court. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0318par0104	Thank you. The writing of the law will show the necessary sensitivity, I believe. In Article 10 there are three motions, and I read the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current law bill, 563 rows, be removed from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Halil Aksoy Gülser Yıldırım Pervin Buldan Golden Tan Secret Erol Sakık Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services 563 rankings currently in session, and the 10th Amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is unconstitutional. Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Münir Kutluata Scholar Light Reşat Right Bulent Belen Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0319par0133	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0318par0134	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0320par0135	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0318par0136	Mr. Münir Kutluata will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0321par0139	Mr. President, I have made a motion on the 10th Amendment to State Intelligence Services No. 563 and National Intelligence Service Act. I salute you. Deliable lawmakers have become a law-making institution in the hands of the government at this time, not according to Turkey's needs, but by the needs of the government. What is the need of power? When we look at it, it is the efforts of the Constitution to maintain power without subjecting itself to the rule of law. The bag is being enforced by law and fundamental law enforcement, measures are being taken to get rid of legal responsibility, and this is the image of the last period. One of these kind of legal preparations is a proposal from the law. We can see that this offer has four angles of disability. One of them is that he did not come as a bill, often expressed. If he had come as a bill of law, he would have passed a self-control; at least the top points of power would have witnessed the assessment of the incident by members of the government, how it was looked at. This was not given the opportunity, the opinion of institutions was not received. Hence, the introduction of such a serious matter as an offer suggests that the work was far from good will in the first place. The other thing is, he didn't go to the relevant commissions. Dear lawmakers, even with a rough look like this, this proposal is 13+2 articles, which, in an ordinary way, are seen to be contrary to the 12 articles of the Constitution when the proposal is compared to the articles of the Constitution. Who, how, with what, will explain that such a law should be passed before the Constitutional Commission? This gives signs of negatives that we have often encountered in the following period, that some methods of pressure will be attempted on other upper courts. Another point: it has not been taken to the subcommittee. The most important benefit of subcommittees is being dealt with by a small number of people, while the ruling representatives there -- face-to-face in this environment -- are not so much for those who force themselves to defend the laws. They were contributing to a little bit of civilizing these wild proposals or plans, while they were being discussed in small groups. Another point: a 13+2 proposition comes as a basic law, which comes as a basic law proposal. Which means that even discussing substances is not required. When we look at it from this angle, it looks like it's been damaged from the beginning. Another point is about this law: there is a serious lack of intimacy. Even though all the issues that power is trying to correct here by adding or subtracting are the issues discussed by the Internal Affairs Commission, wouldn't it be better if it had been corrected there? The reason it's been corrected here, it seems, is not a serious lack of effort, but an image of doing a job to prevent the public's insurgency. Another thing I'm sorry to discuss is that while the concerned minister responded to the reviews here, he, in a defense of the MIT, asked the MIT not to be charged. No one is being charged with MIT, and no one is saying anything to MIT. The problem with the nation is that the opposition, our warning, prevents the National Intelligence Agency from being a toy in the hands of such a troubled power and protects a national organization such as the MIT from this image. Therefore, I think these arrangements will be more beneficial if the ruling members grasp the essence of criticism. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0322par0149	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0323par0152	We want roll call, Mr. President. We have a roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit05spe0322par0153	Now, before we vote on the motion, there's a request for a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Aygül, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Onur, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Star, Mr. Atici, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Aydın, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Şafak. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 77th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata and his friends' motion, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll begin the procedure. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here. Now, I submit to you the motion of Sakarya MP Münir Kutluata and his friends: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0324par0016	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement in accordance with Article 60 concerning Article 11.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0017	Wait a minute... Now, since the two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0325par0020	Isn't that the 11th article, sir? Did we just discuss the 10th article?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0021	We are now discussing the 10th article.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0325par0022	Next item...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0023	I'm having them read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current law bill, 563 rows, be removed from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0326par0030	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0031	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0327par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0322par0033	Mr. Pervin Buldan, the Iğdır MP, will speak on the motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0328par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the 10th article of Law Proposal 563. I salute the General Assembly. The reason for the 10th article to be removed from the draft law is that it is against the Constitution for those who have served with the MIT and the MIT to be unable to bear witness on the matters related to the mission and activities of the MIT members. This will bring an application to keep members of the MIT completely out of legal control. However, under the obligation of state interests, the testimony of the members of the MİSR is essentially protecting the state and the MIT, as a result of the uncertainty of the concept of state interests, as the testimony of the Undersecretary of MIT, and the testimony of the Undersecretary of the MIT depends on the Prime Minister's permission. That's our reason. Therefore, we demand that this clause be removed from the text of the law, but we are not limited to that alone. At the same time, we stress that this law is actually a troubled law, so it should not only be discussed by matter, it should not be discussed, because together with this law, the powers of the MIT will be stronger and will expand. Dear friends, the opposition has expressed... here is a law that guarantees the process, but I would like to express from here to the opposition parties in particular: unfortunately, this process is not guaranteed by this bill. If only this process had been guaranteed, the laws that would guarantee this process would have been in this General Assembly. If such a bill comes up immediately, then we, the BDP Group, will freely sign under such laws. If this law really had a law that would guarantee this process, we would have called it "yes." And we would have signed it. I would also like to point out that MIT is a shady institution. Especially from the day this process began, this MIT is unfortunately under suspicion. The people who were slain in Paris from the beginning of the process, Sakina Nove, Leyla Shaylemez, and our friends who were born in Fidan, still have not been exposed. As long as this murder is not solved, the suspects of this murder are under suspicion of MIT as long as they are not found out. Again, in parallel with this, especially with Rojava... the Rojava issue is a red line from our point of view, so the MIT is under suspicion again because the trucks that were sent to Rojava have been captured, and the ammunition inside these trucks are unfortunately unaccounted for. Therefore, I would like to point out that MIT is a shady institution. In the previous session, I do not agree with the statement of Mr. Sırrı Sakık. With Roboski in the middle, with Gever in the middle, with lice in the middle, we have no right to thank MIT.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0329par0044	Ya, ya! Bravo!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0328par0045	Therefore, I am highlighting this, and I believe that our Secret Sakek friend has also expressed his thanks to MIT, as a result of a misunderstanding. I want to make it very clear that places to be thanked are different places. I thank Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, who was in Imralı Prison, who started this process today. If there is a process of conflict in this country today, if there is no bloodshed, if the mothers are not crying, I once again thank Mr. Ocalan, the prime minister of this process, and he argues that the process of non-conflict should continue, and that the laws that require guaranteeing this process must be removed from the General Assembly immediately, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0330par0048	Thank you. Mr. Omar Süha Aldan will be speaking on the other motion. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0331par0052	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Article 10 of Law Proposal 563, rule that the members of the MIT cannot testify. At the same time, the testimony of the members of the MIT to the Undersecretary of MIT, and the testimony of the Undersecretary of MIT are subject to the Prime Minister's permission. In the pre - September 12th arrangement, there are no rules limiting testimony from members of the MIT or those who served in the MIT. In the latest arrangement, and in the current arrangement, there was a state-of-the-art testimony that was bound by the permission of the Undersecretary of the MIT, which was subject to the confidentiality of the mission and the state's interests. A hierarchical structure is created here. The definition of the state's interests is completely abstract and subjective, and can be changed from person to person. We can also say that no member of the MIT will be heard as a witness that the Undersecretary of MIT has not or has not requested. This is an important handicap in the fight against crime in Turkey. I don't think it's the right approach to link this whole process between the MIT Undersecretary's two lips. Dear lawmakers, the 30-year law on MIT is old, new needs are new in the new era, a modern arrangement is needed. In addition, there's a private secret document in the hands of the irresistible. Some things were being done based on this. With the legal arrangement, we made it more understandable, more visible. However, modernity is not about making employees of the intelligence agency privileged in front of the law, and then running these privileged people on one person's terms. Modernity cannot be achieved by law alone. Modernity should be sought in the minds, not in the laws. In addition, transparency, accountability, independent control mechanisms in the modern country must be based on equality in front of the law. There's a fine line between the need for an intelligence agency to act in secret as part of its mission and account for covert operations. The main goal is to eliminate the elements that could cause the failure of the covert mission, while also prevent the shield from being a tool for illegal enterprises. Unfortunately, the system we call preventive listening continues. In fact, this legal arrangement is just one of the elements of the protection shield after December 17th. What's done? Forensic wiretaps have been somehow avoided. All forensic investigations will take place in public. Okay, there's nothing to say about that. But there's no way to prevent listening or listening to intelligence. This means that certain people in Turkey can be questioned all the time, their phones are bugged, they can be monitored in secret, but they can't be held against their will. A mechanism is being created that will allow the Sovereign to acquire one-sided information, but will allow the other areas to be monitored permanently. In addition, one of the important things in this law is that, for example, the MIT organization will be able to ask a political party for its very intimate information and learn. It's not right to admit it. Every institution has its own secret structure, its own secret side. If you try to use the MIT in such a senseless manner, you will seriously damage this institution. This is the picture that the National Intelligence Service was originally intended to bring in with this legal arrangement: First, the soldier's nose was brushed in a sense, and the state's armed force was taken across in a sense. On the other hand, a certain proprietary police mechanism has been operated, fed, but there has been a matter of... a bird with a beef. Now, the MIT is being granted both operational and employment powers and is trying to provide a new armed force. People who tend to have that kind of autocratic understanding need that kind of structure. This state institution will be put to waste, Turkey will be put to shame, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0332par0058	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0333par0062	I want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0332par0063	We've got a roll call. Let's do it. Mr. Tün, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Aygun, Mr. Bay Bayuttutan, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dibek. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 11 that I make to read.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0334par0074	How are there enough meetings here? How many?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0332par0075	There were 165, plus 20... you're welcome, Mr. Tünce, you're welcome. Yes, there are three motions, please read them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 563 Meeting Orders of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Order 1 1th of the Law Proposal to Change We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer The signatures of the other motion are: Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Erol Dora Halil Aksoy Gülser Yıldırım Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services No. 563 and the National Intelligence Service Act under discussion have been proposed by the 11th Amendment to the Law. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Mehmet Erdogan Reşat Right Mr. Halaçoglu, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0335par0100	I'd like to make a statement based on Article 60.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0332par0101	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0335par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, before the matter is accepted, I'd like to make a statement regarding the 11th article. When it comes to public institutions and institutions and other institutions and organizations, I think there might even be a chance to intervene in private property. That's why... because there's so much space under there. I'll even make it a little more historic: they imitate them in the Ottoman state after the invasion of the Genghisites while the communication system is being run in the Ottoman era, and they even say: "Even after moments, Genghiyan will rise up, you will attack the province and day horses, and you will be forced to seize and communicate with them." This is being changed at the time of the Ottoman Empire, during the Sultan Süleyman of the Law, with Lütfi Pasha and legalization, creating ranges, feeding horses. I mean, people can ride their horses on the road. Which brings us to the same thing, it's said that public institutions and institutions and other institutions and institutions count all the materials, equipment, and equipment that are available in the situations in which they are required to perform written tasks in this law. Now, I think our friends might be able to sort it out a little bit more. It's completely private property, private property rights, and there's a misunderstanding here, and someone could get it wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0336par0108	Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0337par0113	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0336par0114	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0338par0115	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0336par0116	Mr Mustafa Kalaycı will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0339par0119	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 11 of Law Proposal 563 that is being held. On this occasion, I salute you all. This article regulates the need for all public and private institutions and institutions to be confiscated of all materials, equipment, equipment and equipment. The consent of the permit is an illegal regulation based on the consent of institutions and organisations, and it does not mean anything to the extraordinary powers vested in the MIT. With that respect, this clause must be removed from the proposal text, at least from the property of private institutions and institutions. This law proposal, which has dramatically increased the powers and scope of the National Intelligence Service, is a rule of law above the law and even above the Constitution, giving the MIT authority over the Constitution and unlimited immunity to members of the MIT. Of course, the intelligence agency is one of the most important, fundamental and indispensable institutions for the government. However, it is not right for these institutions to have unlimited authority, overwhelming and irresponsible power, no matter how indispensable it may be; if so, it would be institutional dictatorship. Thus, an arrangement is being made to lead Turkey to the state of intelligence, and intelligence dictatorship is being created. An unlimited and irresponsible structure is being created that eliminates individual rights and guarantees. Those who have read the story of parallel structure for days now form a truly parallel structure. The proposal also gives MIT the authority to meet and contact terrorist organisations. In other words, negotiations with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and with the Imralı murderer have been granted legal guarantees. In this way, one of the most fundamental sanctions of the Imran villain is approved. The withdrawal of the talks of treason by Parliament to the legal ground is a brutal assault and hostility against the Republic of Turkey, against the support and security of our nation; it is not possible to take lightly. Dear lawmakers, according to this law proposal, public private institutions and institutions, occupational institutions and banks will have to give information, documents, data, registration, whatever they have to give to MIT, and more than that, they will connect their databases to MIT. There will be no customer secrets, professional secrets, commercial secrets, personal data, and privacy of private life, and any information of individuals will be delivered. In fact, this arrangement means a collective and detailed tag program. The tag is thus made into legal armor. How and how will the legitimacy, legality, righteousness be determined? How will individuals, society, institutions, NGOs be protected from MIT pressure? How will it be prevented by the establishment of an overwhelming and uncontrollable force by the political government to suppress rival political, economic, and social structures? It has already been revealed that MIT has been tracking political parties and party businessmen in technical and physical pursuit. With this arrangement, it is clear that the Prime Minister and his organisation aim to access any data of anti-government, company, party and formations without legal barriers and use them for their own becas and political interests through the MSI. If it becomes an institution of political power, not of the MIT state, it will bring serious problems in the direction of constitutional order, the legal system, pluralistic democracy and the political regime, as well as in the country's economy. Because the offer gives MIT access to the financial information of banks and individuals without limits. Nowhere in the world can banking information, commercial information of corporations be laid out in front of political power like this. The fact that all sorts of information and secrets are being served to an institution under political authority can bring a heavy blow to the Turkish economy. As a result, no one should forget that the return of our country to a new cold war would be to massacre democracy, lynch the law, to violate human rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0340par0126	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the current law bill 563 rows be removed from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan and his friends The signatures of the other motion are: Ali Serindağ (Gaziantep) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0341par0136	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0340par0137	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0342par0138	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0340par0139	Mr. Adil Zozani will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0343par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking about a substance that authorizes members of the National Intelligence Agency to steal. So you have to appreciate that the task of snatching can't be understood well, that it can't be interpreted well, and we suggest that you take it out of the draft text, and that's what we propose. So, you're walking down the street, you're in your car, you're going home, well, someone's going to come and stop you and say, "I'm a member of the MIT, I'm confiscating your vehicle." He has that authority. The citizen has no right to ask this person if he's a member of the MIT and make them prove it. You also forbade the MIT member to be referred to as a member of the MIT, to be decrypted. Therefore, he may not be a member of the MIT, but I am a shoplifter. He can say, "I am a member of MIT." He can carjack your car on the street. So, like this honey, it's a substance that gives the MIT the power to shoplift. You need to take this back. This needs to be fixed. It's a problematic substance when you're in this state. Instead of going back in a year to clean up, do a clean job today, either fix it or remove it from the draft text. That's what we're suggesting. Second point: Now, you know Salih Sharman well. Between 1993 and 1997, Batman had built the Governorate and established special forces in Batman, a governor of the Contra troops, and in the time of this governor, a total of 432 unsolved murders took place in Batman. According to what I'm saying, with what data, I'm sharing with you the data from the Batman Bar's Unsubstantiated Murders and Loss Investigations Commission: 432 murders, unsolved murder. I'm trying to explain to you the connection to the substance of this murder. How did he do it? Through the Treasury and Foreign Trade Undersecretary, which the governor wrote a book about, inspired by the state's irregularity, inspired by the testimony of the Prime Minister of the period and later President Mr. Demirel. I share this information with you from the book Outside of Rutin. The weapons he brought from Bulgaria to be used in Batman's murders... who was bringing these weapons with what means? Through the Treasury and the Undersecretary of Foreign Trade, he was carrying these through the Air Fleet of the Chief of Staff. That was out of order. The state, at that time... may at times have been out of order of state, the state said. Now, with this law and this particular clause, you legitimize the state out of order, making it a matter of law. In doing so -- let us be clear -- we will now hold you responsible for the unsolveds of the '90s. Because in the '90s, you're pulling a shawl over unsolved murders in Turkey, covering it up. Covering up these murders means we're partners in these murders. With this app, we'll be able to express your partnership with the unsubs at the time, and we'll have to express it freely everywhere. In your administrations, though, there have been similar unsolveds in the last 12 years, only 157 people who have lost their lives on the street in 12 years. But to try to cover up this crime, this disgrace, and the unsolveds of the 90s, and to ignore this dark memory of the state with a way of painting it, would make you a party to this crime. So we propose that this clause be removed from the draft text. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0344par0147	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, they have a statement to make. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0345par0152	Mr. President, I'd like to express two sentences regarding the honorable MPs' statement, the last speaker's statement. During his 12 years of execution, our government has struggled with unsolveds, illegals, taboos, illegalities, and has tried to shed light on any of the perpetrators. A Hakkari MP knows these things very well -- the 1990s, the old years, and what was done during this period of government, they need to compare these things very well. I see what you're saying here as an unfortunate misfortune. The MIT Act, as I just said, is to make the MIT more transparent, more legal, more legitimate... Of course, I said that a little bit on the first day, and it was misunderstood. So all I'm asking is that we're interviewing an Intelligence Agency Act. There are always restrictions on the Intelligence Service Act, so I'm thinking about what the intelligence agency is, how it works in other countries, and how it needs to be evaluated a little bit. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0155	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0347par0156	You're authorizing the MIT to commit a crime.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0157	On the other motion...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0158	Mr. President, what the rightful MP said was unfortunate, and there's bullying.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0159	Mr. Zozani, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0160	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0161	What did he say? He didn't say anything about bullying, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0162	Look, Mr. Secretary, a Hakkari MP...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0163	Now, I'm not going to make you any promises, Mr. Group, but I'm going to have to give them to the Vice President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0164	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0165	I don't have to, because of my sensitivity. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0167	I'm just saying, Mr. Secretary, a Hakkari MP should know all about this, and he should do this comparison well...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0168	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0169	He said I couldn't do the comparison, so he picked on me. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0346par0170	It doesn't make sense anymore, so that's what I've been waiting for you to do. It means something, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0349par0171	You say, "I'll hold us responsible for the unsolveds in 1993." You say, "We don't call it teasing." No, you need to understand better than...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0348par0172	Yeah, well, I'm expressing myself, and I'm trying to...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0350par0173	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0349par0174	We're not hurt, we're not saying anything to you, we're saying that you should know that as a Hakkari MP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0351par0175	Mr. Zozani, there's no bullying here, really, there isn't.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0352par0176	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0351par0177	Because it's a wish, to expect it from you. He said a wish, a wish of good faith. No teasing, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0352par0178	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0351par0179	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0352par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. We're not making any accusations, we're reminding Uður Kaymaz. We're reminding him of Enes Ata. We're reminding him of Roboski. We're reminding him of the perpetrators of the nine children who lost their lives on the side of Diyarbakır Kosuway Park. Who are they? For example, in the Ergenekon files of the September 12, 2006 Diyarbakır Kosuyol massacre, what kind of trial did the government open? What happened? We're asking who is the perpetrator of these events. We're not looking to make any accusations. We put it in numerically: 157 children died in public events in the middle of the street, and a large number of them died from gunshot wounds and were shot to death. Now, we have to question them. The government must answer that question. That's what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0351par0183	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal will speak on the other motion. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0353par0190	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, Mr. Minister said that the unknown happened in the 1990s, when the rulers and rulers of that era were responsible. I agree from the heart. Yeah, how many of the executives of that era are you, Congressman? Right now, I have 300 casualties in history, including 300 losses, including the Tekirdağ MP who is currently a member of your parliament, who was then governor of Urbana. Now, this book clearly mentions that governor. So there were 300 casualties at that time, the governor of Ziyaeddin Akbulut Urbana. The D.A. at that time, the chief of police at that time, the governor of that time; unless all of them answer in front of the court, unfortunately, you need to clear your insides of the unsolved murders. There's the Home Secretary at that time, there's the governor of that period, all of which is responsible, Mr. Secretary. I mean, I wish you'd clean up inside yourself with that sensitivity of yours. Yes, this is about the MIT Law Proposal. The Parliament or the government can't do what they want. Why can't he? Article 11 of our constitution states: Constitutional provisions bind legislation, execution, judgment. Well, as much as legislation is being decided for the Turkish nation here, the judiciary is making all decisions for the Turkish nation. So, what is being done with this MIT Law brought in? The army is being interfered with, the judiciary is being interfered with, political parties are being interfered with. Is there an area where this MIT Law does not intervene? There is no area in which the MIT Law Proposal does not intervene. What do we say? As members of a religious community, we say God knows everything. We say that here, unfortunately, the MIT knows everything in Turkey. He's come to an incident that's not acceptable. Now, in the 11th article available, yes, if you have a tool -- all of you -- members of the community and all of you -- in times of war, non-extraordinary times -- if you need a vehicle, it can be confiscated, it can be confiscated temporarily, but with the 11th article brought in, sir, although there is no war in the usual period, you have to deliver your vehicle at any time, even when there is no disaster period. If you're giving this authority, the Justice and Development Party's MPs must raise their hand. In this regard, my plea from you, please read this, the powers that are in the state of war here have been given to the MIT. So, what's this about MIT? You bring in extradition of criminals, prisoners or prisoners, not extradition of intergovernmental prisoners or prisoners. I wish it was called the government here. So, if a terrorist organization kidnaps a citizen, it could be sitting down with a terrorist organization and trading here. Sir, you're not setting a limit on crimes against the state in the trade here. It can be done about smuggling, it can be done about kidnapping, it can be done about press crimes, it can be done about military crimes. I mean, I'm afraid it's a problem here. About the press release, the secrecy... Take one stamp of secrecy, stamp it in any document, and his name became a secret document. I mean, there's no identification of which documents, which documents, which documents are confidential. Well, that's how much authority we give MIT. Is this effective or proportional? Is there a sentence that punishes the deterrent MIT? Is there a judgment that puts the MIT in charge? What do we say? If a place is given a task, if it is authorized, it will bring responsibility with it. Can you show me an arrangement, for the sake of God, that brings responsibility for the MIT? There are no restrictions on the MIT. As a result, what does that bring us? The Turkish Penal Code contains Article 283. The MIT members here will have committed a lot of misdemeanor crimes. So, here, in Article 283 of the Turkish Penal Code, I'm a member of the MIT before 80. This goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on I mean, here, it's against the Constitution, it's against international contracts, it's immoral, it's immoral -- whatever you say -- it's against all of them. Hopefully, the citizens won't suffer first, but the people who offer it will. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0354par0201	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0355par0202	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0354par0203	Wait a minute, I'll listen to you. I'll give you my word, Mr. Ziyaeddin. Mr. Secretary will make a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0356par0208	Mr. President, just so it's not misinterpreted, the 11th article is fully consensual with the consent of the institutions. It's not like MIT to seize anything anywhere. Where did this come from? The reason is, Mr. Lawmakers, as you know, the unit of the armed forces in Lakebaş was assigned to the MIT. There were legal difficulties there, so it's willingly and consensual for other institutions to allocate to MIT. This is the period of war, it's the thing, it'll confiscate it wherever it wants. Comments, such as this, do not reflect this material at all. I specifically wanted to present him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0357par0210	Do these institutions depend on another government?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0358par0211	Mr. Secretary, what are you doing? What do you think you're doing?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0212	Congressmans, please!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0358par0213	You gave it all, you don't know it. What kind of a thing is that? What's it got to do with Lakehead, what's it got to do with? Of course, you're giving the MIT authority to fight. You're doing it wrong, Mr. Secretary! He can stop everyone on the street and seize your vehicle. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0214	Mr. Acar, please, control your nerves.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0360par0215	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0216	No, what was it, what's your request? I don't hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0360par0218	Mr. President, Mr. Mahmut Tanal has made false accusations by mentioning my name. I want to explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0219	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0360par0222	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Mahmoud Tanal, are still throwing away slanders, lies, entanglements today. I don't know what the book is or what it isn't. I repeat, at that time, the SHP and the Right Way coalition were on duty, and I, as governor, went on with violence over all sorts of terrorist incidents. Wherever it came from, I went and did my duty objectively. Therefore, I condemn him to leave behind a 300-person unsolved government and leave the conjunctive on that day and speak out here with an understanding of slander. It's definitely not a 300 event event, so if there were 300 incidents, it'd be the most corrupt province in the country. However, he was the most peaceful, successful province in the fight against terrorism in the region. So, where does he get this list of 300 people from, from? All the names in the southeast, that's not the number. As I said in the government that day, the SHP and the Government of the Right Way were a government in its past. I insist that I tell a lawyer, again, that I can't make this up with a false accusation like that. It really doesn't make any sense, he's starting a slander campaign I don't know where he came from. I'm returning them to him. I did my duty that day, and I did it successfully. I don't have any accounts that I can't account for, and so far I've had no investigations, no investigations. So I had to make that statement. None of his statements are true; he is a liar, a liar.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0225	Mr. Tanal, I'll give you my word, but can you give me the reason for the record?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0361par0226	The reason is that Mr. Orator teased me in his speech by calling me liars, liars, liars. I want word on that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0359par0227	Here you go, two minutes without picking on me. Please don't cause a new taunt, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0361par0230	Dear President, the esteemed MPs, of course, in law, the word flies, the lie... the writing stays.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0362par0231	Of course it's a lie. It's a lie.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0361par0232	As a result, I speak based on the written document. All I'm saying is I'm reading from the chapter that's become a written book. The book "The Loss of Urfa" states that it is important for democracy to answer to the justice of the managers of the estate today. Because, in their time, they abused their authority and supported organized crime. If we recall these things again: Urban Governor Tevfik Ziyaeddin Akbulut, Urban Security Director Mehmet Cebe, Anti-Terror Branch Director Mustafa Arriç, Urban Public Prosecutor Hüseyin Fidanboy, Urban Public Prosecutor Mujdat Sarac. When these gentlemen were in charge, where did they come from? Look, it's a book. There have been... political murders committed in their time, kidnappings, ransoms, drugs, and so on. Anyone who breaks the law must answer to the judgment. No one has the authority to commit a crime. I believe that sooner or later, they have to answer to the court. Because the state of law makes that criteria mandatory. This book is written in 2011, and is still being sold on the market. You'll come and call me here, sir. You'll call me a liar. Who's lying, who's screwing around, how's who? Here's the book!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0235	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the lawmakers...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0364par0236	Mr. President, look, it's not legal to accuse a congressman here with a vague book written by who. If a friend of ours is going to accuse someone -- a friend of ours -- is saying that the state does things out of order. Whatever party was in power at the time, the Right Path Party and its ancestor, they must ask him to account for whoever they had in power. If there's a governor who's been there, if there's a 300, what if he's got the book in his hand, and he comes here and he does this. If he says, what will he say if a book is printed?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0237	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0364par0238	Mr. President, you shouldn't allow these things, you shouldn't let them, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0239	Oh, shit! Now we're talking.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0240	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0241	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0242	, he said, his ancestor, SHP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0243	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0244	CHP was founded in 1923.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0245	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0246	CHP is not the ancestor, it is a severe insult. I want to answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0247	There's no insult in that.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0248	So much history...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0249	I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0251	No, no. There's no such thing as ignorance.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0252	Mr. Tütin, you're right on your grounds.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0253	No, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0254	Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0255	He insulted my party. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0256	Now, Mr. Tütin, it's his uncle. It's not an insult.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0365par0257	But it's not a horse.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0258	It's an error of knowledge. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Excuse me. Congressmans, this seat is all yours. You will all speak as you wish, and I will not be the ruler of the House! Thank you very much!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0262	He insulted the corporate personality of my party.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0263	Now, being his ancestor doesn't mean insulting.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0264	But he's not his ancestor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0265	Then because of the misinformation -- he told you where he was -- I'll give you the right to explain.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0266	No, I want to answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0267	Please, take the microphone away from your seat.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0268	Why would I give you my seat, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0269	Because he spoke from his place.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0270	That's a lot of teasing.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0271	Is it bullying to be his ancestor, Mr. Tünce?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0272	It's a tease, sir, if you say something that isn't. If I tell you Christian democratic parties are your ancestors, I'll be taunting you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0367par0273	They'll laugh at you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0274	But it's not him, it's not a metaphor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0275	But you cooperate, you're partners.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0276	It's not a metaphor, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0277	You're cooperating.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0368par0278	That's a lot of teasing, isn't it? Mr. Elitaş, you must answer.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0279	Look, I'll give you my word. Mr. Elistash has spoken at his place. And you, please, from your position, the other group of vice presidents have spoken from their seats. Please, let me ask you. It's gonna close anyway.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0366par0280	Mr. President, there's been a disturbance. Please don't create a new Civil Code. I'll answer if I'm being sarcastic.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0281	Well, Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0369par0282	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0283	Dear Elitaş, please...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0369par0284	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0363par0285	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0369par0286	If you'll excuse me. Under the code of law, if he's been bullied there, he'll be given it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0370par0287	Open him up.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0369par0288	If he was bullied here, he'd be here, and if he was on the table, he'd be on the table.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0370par0289	Open it, show it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0371par0290	Sir, the subject's explanation is made at the location, the taunt is answered from the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0372par0291	Yes, bullying is answered from the platform, but it's not insulting to actually point out anything to a person, of course, that a structure that is similar in the context is similar in a structural sense, but you insist, you insist.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0373par0292	He was their ancestor in '95, that's right. The CHP and the SHP merged at 95, so they got married, and I was wrong, and it wasn't his ancestor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0374par0293	Mr. President, he's insulting our party! Don't!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0372par0294	Mr. Erdoğdu, I'm not speaking to you, I'm speaking to Mr. Tül. Yes, I do, but I'd like to put it on the record that it's not an insult.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0375par0297	We've learned that he's very loud, and he's taking words.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0299	Thank you. It is one of the world's 10 oldest parties, the Republican People's Party, the continuation of the Anatolian and Rumeli Defense Legal Society. You need to know these things.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0377par0301	There was a Democratic Party in there.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0302	The SHP was founded in the 1980s. I served at that party because the CHP was closed. You've been mayor of the Homeland Party in the past...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0378par0303	Right.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0304	...but always, always, your Prime Minister from this bench has criticised the ANAP period, so don't forget that he criticised your period.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0379par0305	It's not like he's critical of his period.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0306	Look, another: Mr. Akbulut, you've always come here, you've said the government of the SHP-DP. You never said that when you were governor because DYP was a bigger party, you called it the DYP-SHP Government.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0380par0307	He also served as governor during the right road-profit period, Governor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0308	You remember those days, don't you? When you were governor in those days, if you'd only once said "SHP-DP Government" you'd have a bad meal with Cirler. You never said that. DYP-SHP Government when building a dam is the government of the SHP-DP while the unsolved murder occurred. There's no waking up, we'll talk about the truth. Did you, at the time, say to your mouth any day of your six-year governorship -- let's look at the arrests -- for once, the government of the SHP-DP? You didn't. Use it right here. As for the books, you took many such newspapers in your hand, disparaging the 1920s, and the 1930s. You have insulted the history of our party, the history of the republic, the Ismet Pasha, the Ataturk. (CHP turns to applause) Mahmut Tanal found a book, he reads it. My question to you, Mr. Governor, is, Mr. Akbulut, have you sued this book? Did you have him convicted? Did you repeat it? Is there such a conviction? All right, let's get that book out of our bookshelf. Come forward with this sentence and explain it here.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0380par0310	Where has he been for three years?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0376par0311	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0381par0313	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0382par0314	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0381par0315	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0382par0316	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0381par0317	I'll vote on the motions if you don't let me. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0383par0319	Mr. Elitaş is opposed to the MIT Law.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0384par0320	There's a parasite over there, will you shut it down? Mr. Tütin is here to tell me...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0385par0322	You can't call a congressman "parasite"!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0323	Please... I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0384par0324	He can't talk to me either. He's over there, look, he's sitting next to you, you're gonna shut him up!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0325	Well, then, MPs, please, let's be respectful, because I don't.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0387par0326	He can't call his congressman fucking parasitic.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0384par0327	He's sitting next to you, you'll shut him up!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0328	I didn't hear that, I promise.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0387par0329	Haven't you heard?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0330	I didn't hear it, I'd have done it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0388par0332	There are reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0389par0333	I don't think you should. You heard him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0334	That's none of your business.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0389par0335	I don't think you can.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0336	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0337	Mr. President gave false information about my past, said I was the mayor of the Motherland Party. I'd like to fix that, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0391par0338	You were the mayor, what difference does it make?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0339	Okay, so from now on, I'll give you one more minute for bullying, one minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0341	Mr. Tünce, I was vice president of the Homeland Party, running for mayor in 1994. You know what the point is? Not him.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0392par0342	Okay, great, you were the deputy mayor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0386par0343	Now you'll listen with respect.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0344	And I was proud to be a Fatherland Partyer, and I was proud to work with the late Ozal.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0392par0345	I have no objection.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0346	And I'm also saying that if it was an AK PARTY, I wouldn't be doing anything at the Homeland Party anyway, I didn't have an AK PARTY. (APPLAUSE) Mesut Yilmaz said: "A party of every inclination has been formed. After a party of every trend was formed, I went to the Welfare Party; that's the bottom of it, if you don't know it. One: look, I told you, I was wrong, SHP...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0393par0348	There's a Saadet Party right now, why aren't you there?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0349	The People's Party and the Social Democracy Party merged into SHP, and then on February 18, 1995, the publicist SHP -- I don't know if it was SODEP -- was merged with the Social Democratic People's Party CHP.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0394par0350	Then talk about what you know, dear!
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0390par0351	So, at the time of Mr. Governor's service, during the massacre of Uğur Mumcu, during the time of the unsolved murders and attempted coup, the People's Party and Republican People's Party have already partnered together. If you're taken from SHP, if you're offended, I won't say anything. I'm proud to be part of the Homeland Party.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0395par0352	He'd have to be older to be his ancestor.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0396par0353	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0397par0354	Mr. Elitaş, why aren't you there as the Ponzi scheme now?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0398par0355	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0396par0356	Here you are, Mr. Akbulut.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0398par0357	Sir, I'm going to make a statement about the book for a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0396par0358	An explanation or no teasing?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0398par0359	An explanation, sir. There was a tease and he asked me about the book, Muharrem Tül.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0396par0360	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0398par0361	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0396par0362	Wait a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0398par0366	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I saw the book Mahmoud Tanal Bey showed here for the first time, and this is the first time a claim like this appears. So far, 18 years have passed -- I've been governor there for six years -- for the first time in a book like this, I've learned from Mahmut Tanal Bey that such a claim exists. May he grant me that book, I will take it, and I will sue, and I will follow it to the end. You'll see, I'll be right, because all that is written in that book is a slander, a lie, and it's not true. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0399par0370	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0400par0375	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0399par0376	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0400par0378	Mr. President... dear President...
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0399par0379	Congressmans, we have five minutes left, so if you'd like me to extend the deadline to discuss a clause, I'll submit it to your votes.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0401par0380	We can't see each other, we'll continue tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0402par0381	You can continue tomorrow.
tbmm-2014-04-16sit06spe0399par0382	Okay. Members of parliament, on Thursday (April 17th 2014) the decision to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, in order of the decision, is at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Have a good evening.
