tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Istanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, who asked for talks about truckers' K document issues. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear friends, I'll make this very simple. I'd like to address your conscience, your sense of justice. A driver's shop, his livelihood, his alimony, driving... 50 trucks with one truck, 100 trucks...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0001par0016	Mr. Aslanoglu, a moment of your time. Congressmans, there's a big hum in the hall. Please, let's respect the security guard. Please... thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0003par0019	If you start my time again, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0001par0020	I'll add the time.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0003par0021	50 trucks, 100 trucks, companies and people with 1 truck, $17,000 each... One truck pays $17,000 to get a K document, 50 trucks and 100 trucks. Friends, it's neither right nor justice, nor conscience; it doesn't fit in any conscience. That's what the driver's shop does for a living. It's not corporate, it's borrowing a truck, it's diesel, it's repair, it's all there. So, from this point on, I can't accept that the Ministry of Transport is taking $17,000 from these people and taking $17,000 from the one with the 100 truck. Therefore, this must be changed absolutely. So let's take these prices down -- for example, don't buy one car, let's get a thousand lira from the one with two cars -- three cars, five cars -- let's do it in stages, guys. If there's a conscience and a right, let's do it this way. Again, the biggest problem with our driver's business is that there's also a C document, my friends -- this was a K document -- the people who received the C document are doing international transport, and they have the authority to transport both domestically and abroad. Because of their international transportation, they use the diesel they buy there to move domesticly... so, a tradesman brother of my Denizli, a brother of mine, a shopkeeper from Malatya, buys a very high price, but the driver with the C document, when he makes international transport, makes domestic transports, and is very difficult in terms of competition. If, at some point, the conditions of competition are not equal, my friends, my friends, the drivers who transport here in the country, are in a very difficult position. Again, they're selling these K documents to the Department of Transport district managers. I'm assuming the district managers are in 13 counties. So, a friend of mine, a driver in Hakkari, gets up and goes to the district manager's office under really tough conditions. Guys, who's gonna sell the K document? Embezzle the Association of Drivers and Careers; the authority of this is the Association of Drivers and Automobiles who know it. Instead of selling all K documents to the 13 district managers, selling them to the Drivers and Automobiles Association is the greatest service to the driver's shop, but whatever it is, I bought a truck, paid 17,000 lira, sold this truck, left 17,000 after a month, bought another truck, paid another 17,000. Friends, this is not the truth, nor is it the truth. If you're giving me a K document, after a while, three years, five years, if that's my right, I'll keep it. The people who took the C document, the C document, have the opportunity to transfer it to the third person, you're handing over that C document, but why don't you hand over the K document? Why? To leave the tradesman with one truck in a state of emergency. The C documentors usually buy cheap diesel, and unfortunately, those who have a C document -- without any effort -- provide an advantage by renting the C documents to the third people, so without shipping, so with the K document, the C document... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0004par0028	Thank you. We've given you your time.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0003par0030	Oh, yeah? Okay.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0004par0031	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Batman MP Bengi Yildiz, who asked for a comment on the disappearances of Silopi. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0005par0036	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, missing persons and perpetrators are a bleeding wound to this country. I'd like to honor all the unsolved and missing persons, especially our intellectuals like Vedat Aydın, Musa Anter, who died in the unsolved murders. Dear friends, on January 25, 2001, 13 years ago, in the district of Cleopatra, in Şırnak province, HadEP District President Serdar Çağan and district manager Ebubekir Deniz were called to the district police station, and they were never heard from again, despite witnesses and witnesses. In what countries do unsolved murders and casualties take place? In countries usually ruled by authoritarian regimes and military dictatorships, countries such as Chile, Argentina, Somalia, Bosnia, Turkey, and recently Egypt, Iraq, Syria. The losses in Turkey began with the coup d'état of September 12th and peaked in a dirty war in the 1990s. The figures were always variable and controversial about the unknown and the missing. According to the Turkish Human Rights Foundation, the number of missing persons in custody was 750, the number of unsolved murders was 1,901, while there were more than 10,000 unsolved and more than a thousand missing persons in the Diyarbakır Special Prosecutor's Office alone. Dear friends, the interesting thing is -- this concerns the Justice and Development Party -- is that there's a Convention on Protection Against Loss in custody, which Turkey still hasn't signed, so Turkey hasn't had a problem with casualties and perpetrators, according to the AKP government. The government's like a door on casualties, the perp's obvious, but everyone ignores it. As Hrant Dink said, this act of inattentiveness creates a pigeon's anxiety in humans. What have countries like our country done, dear friends? First of all, they've set up commissions to investigate facts and face the past. In our country, mothers are still searching for a grave to mourn and pray for. Unfortunately, we have a human reality in our country where mourning is delayed. When there's no grief in unsolved losses, we see that you've been living with your family for life, especially when you can't get rid of it. The first organised fight against casualties was launched on May 27, 1995, when Hasan January was found lost and murdered by the state, by his missing relatives and human rights advocates. This battle, carried out with great dedication and determination, would then be called the Saturday Mothers. In the act of Mothers of Saturdays, which led to the world's longest-ever civil disobedience, the state's stance was to gas, club the participants, rather than apologize. The government didn't want these events to be visible, and in the panic of the criminal, they tried to suppress these events. Berfo Ana, Mr. Pervin Buldan, is represented by these actions, and Sezen Aksu has voiced these sounds with his song "I'm Ana." Unfortunately, only in Ergenekon's case, Brigadier General Levent Ersöz and Şırnak Regimental Commander Cemal Cleansöz remain alone in Diyarbakır. He's still a good boy... or we're dealing with a government that put Fahri Tornado, who vouched for Veli Minor. In fact, in recent days, the AKP's mayor of the capital, in the 21st century, reports that there will be new unsolved murders and assassinations in 2014, which indeed raises people's anxiety. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As long as we don't deal with individuals, not with the system and the institutions of the system, we're saying that this state will not survive gangs, unsolveds, and casualties. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0006par0049	Thank you, Mr. Star. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Hakan Çavoğlu, who asked for a comment on the January 29th events of West Thrace. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. Members of parliament, I want to talk to you today about the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority and the 29 January National Resistance Day, which has made an effort for the development of Greece, which has been a citizen and has been sensitively avoiding any negativeness towards its peace and prosperity, and has been able to keep its prayers in its native language, as well as the honorary struggle of this minority. Members of parliament, West Thrace is the name of the region in which some 150,000 Turkish minorities live, whose status is determined by the Lausanne Agreement, dated 24 July 1923, remain within the borders of Greece. Although this minority has faced a variety of injustices since it was entrusted to Greece, it has never been outside the realm of legitimacy in its struggle, and has taken an honorable stand against any attacks on its national and spiritual values. Members of parliament, 26 years ago today was the day when the fight was flagged, and the minority called it the January 29th Day of the National Resistance. Gümülcine, one of the symbol institutions of the Muslim minority of West Thrace, was closed by Greek courts on the bet that the Union of Turkish Teachers of Western Thrace passed its name. This attack on the minority's Lausanne Agreement and its national identity, guaranteed by many international texts, has led to a major influx among the minorities. As a result, the Minority High Council decided that a march would take place on 29 January 1988 to protest this decision. However, Greece's authorities responded negatively to the minority's request, saying that on the same day, at the same time and place, the Greeks also requested a countershow. On the other hand, it has been announced that it is forbidden for minority members to get together through their radios. Thousands of minorities, unable to accept these decisions, meaning that their national identity will be denied and ignored, gathered on the street of the Turkish Youth Union in Gümülcine. Again, thousands of men and women have flocked from villages to Gümülçin. At the same time that thousands of people gathered in Şümülçinah began to disperse, there were reports of clashes and arrests in the area, while the disbanded crowd was regrouped, there were police conflicts, and many people were injured. Members of parliament, two years after the events took place, on the occasion of the anniversary of 29 January 1990, it has been decided to have an education in the Old Mosque. On January 28th, however, radios in Greece reported that a Greek in the hospital was attacked by a minority member of the hospital who was treated with him, calling on the Greeks to stop this entity, which will be held on January 29th. Besides, Customer's Metropolitan has also called for the same purpose. Finally, on the morning of January 29th, news of the death of the alleged Greek was reported on the radio. However, in reality, no one has ever been killed or attacked. This news has been produced completely without purpose and aims to mobilise the fanatical Greeks. Finally, the false news reached its goal, after the news of the false death was heard, the Greeks gathered in groups of 8-10, attacking Turkish coffeehouses with stones and sticks, looting hundreds of minority shops in the marketplace, hurting many minority members. It's a pity that all of this has happened before the eyes of the Greek police. Members of parliament, this honorable stance of the minority against decisions aimed at eliminating its national identity is now called the National Resistance Day, and is called by the minorities in many countries where Western Thracians are clustered. By holding firmly to their national and spiritual values, I welcome the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority today, who struggles in the presence of law in the face of any threat to their values. Today, in the various parts of our basin of civilization, let our brothers and sisters, who are the volunteer watchmen of history, be safe. Because now we have a stronger Turkey and a Prime Minister who calls them into his care as a relic of history. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0008par0068	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Aliaba, who has been exposed to heavy industrial waste for many years, is scheduled to build seven thermal plants to work with coal in this region without resolving the current environmental problems. The pollution of thermal plants planned to be created in Aliya and around it, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Charter of Turkey, in order to identify the harmful effects of human and public health, agricultural production, natural life, surface and underwater waters, and marine water. 04/05/2012 1) Abdullah Levent Tüzzel [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] There are nearly 40 heavy industrial facilities in Alikaka, including oil refinerys, iron steel factories, ship-cliping facilities, and 2,900 businesses. Still, there are six (6) thermal plants operating in this area of 2.384 megawatts. There are three (3) 1,600 megawatt thermal plants that have been licensed and have reached the stage of the facility. Again, seven (7) companies in this region are waiting for a license to build a thermal power plant, and their demands are in the process of reviewing and evaluation in the EPDK. Thermal plants, especially coal workers, are polluting nature by scattering tons of CO2, waste ash particles into the atmosphere every second. For example, a 1,000MW-powered coal plant consumes 2.5 million tons of coal a year, spreading 6 million tons of C02 gas, 600,000 tons of waste ash into the environment. You have to add 200 million bekerels of radiation. The areas that the thermal plant will affect are primarily from Kozbeyli, Gencelli, Bağarasi, Gerenköy, Yenifoça, Foça to Karaburun, or even the Pony. In short, the northern Aegean coasts, the fertile plains, most of the Izmir (Izmir) will be affected by the thermal plant. The long-term heavy industrial waste exposure of Alakaka (Alakaka) will bring pollution unrecognisable to Aliya and around the seven thermal plants planned to be built without resolving the existing environmental problems. In particular, the Bakırçay basin is a hub of agriculture, tourism, industry, and the trade sector that depends on them. Environmental organisations, mass organisations, trade unions and trade organisations have been warned by municipalities that even the slightest facility that will increase pollution will threaten human health, nature, the sea, and the construction of thermal power plants is contested. In the same region, the thermal power plants, which were planned to be built 22 years ago in 1990, were abandoned as a result of the reaction of the people of the region who were acting for the protection of nature and the environment. The government of the period gave up construction of thermal power plants in the region on May 6, 1990. In Aligaa, where heavy industrial facilities are heavily located, where waste released to nature without enough decontamination is contaminated with air, soil and underground water, and exposed to deadly effects in many areas of life, evidences of cancer cases far above the average of Turkey have been found by environmental and health organisations. Environmental organisations have warned that Aliaka's future could come to a halt, just as it did in the Alexandrian Dilova. The pollution of thermal plants planned to be made in Aliya and around it is of great importance in human and public health, agricultural production, natural life, superficial and subterranean waters, the detection of harmful effects on marine water, the removal of human and public health dangers and environmental problems and parliamentary control work. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution of the Constitution, in order to develop underground storage, legal legislation, improve infrastructure and service quality, and determine the measures taken to be submitted to the services of domestic and foreign investors. [[Nevşehir]] 2) Ahmet Erdal Feralan [[Nevşehir]] [[Nevşehir]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Omar Faruk Öz [[Malatya]] [[Mughle]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Silver House]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kayseri]] [[Kayseri]] 14) Ali Reza Alaboyun [[Aksaray]] 15) Lightning M. Ramazanoğlu [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Adana]] 18) Stopped Mehmet Kastal [[Osmaniye]] [[Inconceived]] [[Denizli]] [[Kırşehir]] [[Niğde]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Niğde]] [[İzmir]] Rock carving sites serve agricultural, tourist and commercial purposes in our province and have an important place in our province's economy. Kaya carving places show concentrations in our province, central district of Nar, Uçikhisar, Yüzı, Çat, Karak, Göyama, Ürgüpağ districts, Middlehisar, Mustafapaşa, and Avanos and Gülşehir districts. The geology of the inner Anatolian region and particularly the Cappadocian region is mostly soft rock with a 100-300 metre stack of volcanic activity about 5 million years ago. Based on agricultural activities and products, rock structures have been used for centuries as depository from small to large, and have now become a serious commercial sector. These structures, sometimes for agricultural purposes, sometimes for tourist and commercial purposes, exist in the region, which can be built within local rock structures. Over time, these structures have been transformed into modern underground facilities (touristic rock carving facilities, agricultural rock carving facilities, livestock and commercial facilities and so on) with developing technology. In earlier times, small - scale rock carving sites, with technological advances, have become large structures in which machines can travel. For this purpose, there are more than 2,000 such warehouses in the province of Nevşehir. Some cold air tanks are among the world's largest cold storage facilities in terms of their width. The cleaning, moving, moving, 5,000 employees in shipping areas and the region increase the socioeconomic power of man and create new jobs. It is clear that rock carving sites are a significant creation of employment, a significant contribution to the region and the country's economy, as well as to the "unfavourable factories" for the public interest of our region. For example, only 1 million tons of potatoes and bed lemons stored in the region are over 80,000 tonnes (about 4,500,000 crates, where lemon can taste its own unique color and taste but can only be provided in our region in the natural environment with a stable humidity balance). The 2 million tonnes of potatoes produced across Turkey are temporarily consumed in production, and the remaining 3 million tonnes of Turkish reserves sent to warehouses are stored in underground warehouses in our region. The cost of energy is close to zero, since these rock-carved agricultural warehouses do not require external climaticization. The fact that it's at the level of one-third of the above-and-natural properties of the rock, such as the constant humidity, in terms of the construction costs, maintains the natural structure of the product, including energy consumption at 1/10 levels of the above-ground cold air tanks. As far as it's concerned, it's an inevitable choice for investors, and it contributes to huge benefits for our country. In addition to all these positive contributions, there are problems with licensing rock carving sites. The construction licenses cut off through the system are not included in any of the building classes (betronome-structure, cumulative structures and so forth). However, a serious planning and projecting work on rock sites to be opened in the region is essential for the long-term efficiency and security of this sector. In the planning phase before opening such structures, experts (MTA, universities etc.) and related vocational disciplines (instruction engineering, geology engineering, geophysical engineering, map engineering) are required to work on planning, projecting and stabilisation, and the lacks in the process of licensing legal regulations. Therefore, it is fitting that a parliamentary research commission be set up in agricultural storage in order to improve underground storage, improve service quality, and make the necessary arrangements. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research on the basis of Articles 104 and 105 of our Constitution, in order to bring the theatre to a wide populations in all parts of the country, to meet the theatre, to the development of the arts, to find the problems of the State Theatres that have served them successfully for many years, to compare them with other examples around the world, to investigate the problems of theatre artists, to find effective and permanent solutions to existing issues. [[Ankara]] [[Inconceived]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 4) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 13) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[40s.]] [[Scholarship]] 16) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] 19) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Niğde]] State Theatres are one of the republic's most important achievements. In 1927, Muhsin Ertuğrul founded Darulbeda. Following developments in Darulbeda, the Ankara State Conservatory opened and State Theatres were officially established in 1949. In the 1950s, the spread of the theatre was made by the government's hands to deliver it to more viewers. He tours towns and villages, sometimes in wedding halls, sometimes in village squares, when there are no theaters available. The 1960s was a bright time for theatre literature. During this period of critical awareness in political, economic, cultural aspects, theatre has focused on the problems of workers and peasants. It was focused on political theater in the 1970s. During this period, local and foreign political-referencing games were often staged. Today, State Theatres have about 30 scenes in 13 provinces (Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Bursa, Adana, Antalya, Tripoli, Konya, Sivas, Diyarbakır, Van, Erzurum, Gaziantep). The mission of the State Theatre has been to encourage young writers from the year they were founded, as well as to bring together modern works, as well as classicals, which are difficult and expensive to produce. Sixty-three years of government theatre history, savings and experienced staffs are also the cultural memory of Republic Turkey. Art is the most important element to move a society forward, to develop a sense of aesthetics and visual perception. At the same time, art is the mirror of society, expressing the voice of society, its problems, its demands. Government Theatres allow people to meet art wherever they open their curtains. In recent years, power has spoken more oppressive rhetoric than criticism of art. The announcements for privatisation of State Theatres, which began with a change in the Istanbul Metropolitan City Theatre Charter, have finally reached an alarming extent. Even in the town-sized cities of Europe, opera, theatre, ballet halls are found, which shows state support. No doubt, state support is crucial for expensive productions to reach citizens all over the country. The "state support" mentioned here does not mean that current authorities should put pressure on art. Santa state support is provided through institutionalised structures in Europe. In England, art is funded through earned revenues, state aid, private donations and sponsorships. The state has established an institution to support art, but it does not interfere with the institution. In Italy, art-related powers are shared between state, districts, municipal administrations and municipalities. Half of the total financial support is covered by the state. These examples will show that the government's support for art is not only related to our country. In terms of the State Theatres, it is vital to ensure artistic freedom and fiscal flexibility. The changes in the state theatre's current situation are the decisions that must be made, not with power, but with executives of the State Theatre, artists, cultural arts associations and trade unions. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (29/1/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. A parliamentary research proposal issued by Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar and his friends on 28/1/2014 to investigate the failure of some ministers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be delivered to the TBMM (1262 rows). lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in Wednesday's Wednesday (29/1/2014) jointly and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, the first speaker is Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0009par0263	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to investigate why the proceedings against some ministers after the 17th December bribery and corruption operation could not be sent to the Grand National Assembly. I'd like to start by saying that I regret having to make such a speech under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and have to. Dear lawmakers, the press reported on 17 December 2013 that they had been sent to Turkey's Grand National Assembly in preparation to discuss European Union Minister Egemen Bagis, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, Interior Minister Muammar Güler and Economy Minister Zafer Calayan. The report, dated December 19, 2013, stated that the proceedings of the ministers had been imposed on the UYAP, but did not reach the Ministry of Justice. Reports released on 10 January 2014 also base the information that relevant statements reached the Ministry of Justice on the basis of an official inside the Ministry of Justice. In his statement to Reuters, the same official stated that the proceedings would be sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after reviews by the Ministry. On 15 January 2014, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ announced to the press that they had their postal duties and that no one should worry, that they would fulfill their responsibilities. On 24 January 2014, the media reported that the proceedings did not reach the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Other than the four ministers mentioned, it has been revealed that there are two other issues about Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ, who is currently in office. Where are these arguments? Who is preventing the fezlekes from reaching the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? This delay needs to be explained. Dear lawmakers, in the 2nd article of our Constitution, the rule of law among the qualities of our republic states. The question is, do we have a state of law? More questions have been asked after December 17th. I wonder if there's law in our country or not. The answer is hidden in the government's practices after December 17th. There are words from the mouths of the ruling authorities since 17 December: gang, secret organization, parallel state, external altars, interior altars, Hashishis. But they didn't say anything, the law. Dear lawmakers, let's see what law is like for power. Regarding the Prime Minister last week, tapes and analysis of the villas in Urla have been published. Whether these audio recordings are true or not, these recordings have been recorded by whom and for what purpose, and this is a separate matter. However, the allegations are very serious. The analysis shows how to build a villa together with the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Governor, the Governor, the General Manager? There were villas with pools, villas built, but it wasn't easy. First the governor of Izmir was replaced, and when the change was being made, they replaced him with the governor of Diyarbakır, saying, "Look, we replaced these governors because of the solution process." They turned the area of the first-degree status into a third degree, and then they planned the house, and then the beautiful villas were shaped like a pool. In the meantime, arrangements have been made from the relevant parliamentary commission to keep the business intact. Erdogan Bayraktar, as he called it, was a large part of the zoning plans that existed in the investigation file and were approved by the Prime Minister's orders. The regulations have been altered. As far as we can tell, the state was united, and how do we build these villas? He succeeded, but the whole process was recorded, written, drawn, and published. If these records are true, that's what I'm saying about the law for the ruling authorities, that's what I'm saying, to have them kill the one that doesn't even exist at any cost. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we close the matter of Urla, I'd like to explain a document. On August 20, 2013, I asked Erdogan Bayraktar, who was then Minister, a few questions: İzmir is private property in the village of Oliveli in Urla district. I asked him who owned this private property, when and how much private property was owned, and how many were closed in this way in our country. Erdoğan Bayraktar answered this question on December 4, 2013, not answering any of his questions, but in the final paragraph, he states: "The necessary audits have been launched and continued under Article 59 of the administration." I would like to ask the new Minister from here: Where are the controls? Whose area is this called private property? How much is this place closed at? Dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you a few more examples of the rule of law. While the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Turkey is being taken into custody as a member of the terrorist organization, I am the prosecutor of those cases who have been closing their ears against those who have told the military that there has been a play in the army for years, and then, at some point, they bring in a bill of law to get permission from the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister and the Home Office of the Turkish Armed Forces? Who are you to interfere in the affairs of the prosecutor, who says, "Who are you?" who says, "Who are you? Who are you? Who are you?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Sledgehammer, Poyrazköy, and Admirals were the basis of the assassination cases, which led to the imprisonment of hundreds of our soldiers. For the lu hard drive, TÜBITAK's time and date were tampered with. Who claims the police planted the machine when the minister's children left their rooms, but who waits so long, so long? Who are the ones who first keep the children arrested and the ministers mentioned in the investigation and then resign to relieve them, and then resign from a minister who has been relieved of his duties? (We didn't hear the statement, and we cleaned up the rotten eggs.) Dear lawmakers, in the wake of the December 17, 2013 corruption and bribery operation, the idea of those running our country has been clear, and the definition of forward democracy is that those who define it actually represent progress in the execution. Why didn't the Fezlekes come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after 72 days? This problem needs to be explained. It is important to put an end to this situation by law, to find out by whom the proceedings have not yet been brought to our House, to prove that they have been framed, as the ministers say, and to clarify events. Your decision will affect not only you, but the rest of the state of the Republic of Turkey. The House we've submitted awaits your support for our research motion, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0010par0283	Thank you. On the proposal of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Mr. Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0011par0287	Mr. President, my dear friends, I'm going to share with you the opinion and the opinion of the group regarding the investigation motion the Republican People's Party Group has submitted. On this occasion, I salute you all. Unfortunately, there are some news in the papers today about that terrible incident we performed here several times last week. After our criticism, Kayseri MPs visit Kayseri, visit the wounded... and they have a statement like this, Deputy Speaker Yakut says: "Let them come, let them visit their patients. Let them visit their patients. There is another segregation language. Without visiting his patients, without seeing them, they reveal unknown information, they do it, it's not true. However, Mr. Yakut, these patients were in the hospital, we were the first ones to go, we were the ones to bring them here, we were the ones who criticized you for not doing your duty while you were in the middle, and then he says, "They want to scratch these. We invite you here to humanity for a crime against humanity. You're calling us mixers and separatists again. ▪ They are not true. They have a grudge at work, he says. Why would I have a grudge? I remind you of your humanity. Another MP says, "What should the mayor do?" What else can he do? This is the problem, my dear brothers.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0012par0289	Is that a blessing, too? It's a blessing!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0011par0290	I mean, in this country, they call us "Kefen, coffin, and an ambulance" -- take it, go, die. We're talking about a social government. He may not be a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, he may also be a citizen of another country. Isn't this municipality legally entitled to take them, bury them, remember them, and bury them in prayer? That's what humanity commands, and that's what the law commands. You, the criticism of your own friends, the things you can't do for yourself... turn around and say that we're politics on death, on coffins, and you're a disgrace, you're a sin. And I say, "Some sins are forgiven, and some sins are written in the graves." If you approach the dead, and you approach the wounded like this, I will refer you to the Lord God, and leave you to your sins written in the book of graves. Dear friends, our country is going through an extraordinary process. We have a situation every day somewhere. We sang here yesterday, to the National Movement Party, to the attack in İstanbul, to our Group Chairman, to our group's presidents, to our rights -- we wished for condolence -- and we pointed out yesterday that a triggering process would take place because of this. Life immediately confirmed us because we've known our country for many years, we know the streets, we know exactly what to do. Yesterday there was an attack on college students in Kars. There was an attack on Kurdish students in Burma -- at night, our group presidents and we -- Kurdish neighborhoods were attacked late. There's been an attack on the HDP rally, and I'm very sorry to say, it's my hearing, it's my system, it's said to be members of the Republican People's Party. I'm just saying this as a hearing, and I'm telling you this as a friend. Now, someone wants to trigger it, someone, yes, in the process... a new process began on December 17th. What was December 17th, dear friends? Actually, it's a multi-planned project process, December 17th. Now we turn around and we ask... look, let's go all the way to the end of corruption, whether it's called the AK PARTY, whether it's CHP, whether it's MHP, BDP, let's all go over it, but we all have questions, questions, questions. A decision was made in the Constitutional Court on Mustafa Balbay. It was a delayed decision. It was a delayed justice. It was not justice, it was not justice. Mustafa Balbay was released. In fact, the authors had done so much planning and projecting that judges who would be the precedent of the Constitutional Court's decision for Kurdish lawmakers in Kurdish geography had applied in Diyarbakır, but the judges -- the militant judge, part of the script -- rejected the evacuation decisions in Diyarbakır. What was his motive? The reason for the 2011 election was that the Kurds stood up as a whole against that injustice to the High Election Board, against the BDP. They said, "We are not a democracy or we are not." The people who carried out this plan were going to raise the Kurds from there, and they were going to press the button here on December 17th. What was spoken on December 17th? I'm not saying this by covering up corruption, but we're looking through a different window. The classrooms were spoken, Israel was spoken, the peace process was spoken, but the dominant forces were disturbed by them. They find it uncomfortable to face the true nature of Turkey's identity. Now, to the judges who carried out this operation, where have you been, judges, and where have you been before? Why did you let him? The property of the public... our friend just announced here, he's talking about millions of dollars, why did you let them go to waste, why did you wait for December 17th? You waited for this: the Kurds will rise from there, they will rise from there, we will overthrow AKP power. That's the whole account. Beat the AKP, defeat the AKP in the polls, we have no objection. We'll fight them, bury them in the polls in the area, we'll give them their recess in the area. They're here, they're on duty, it's recess day. That's our understanding. We will bury the AKP in the chest in the region and across Turkey, but we say clearly and clearly that we are not involved in these dirty games, that we can't be. Now, judges, with what law, why have you been watching this long? You're talking about a year, two years. If you're really a judge, if you're really in charge of protecting a single dollar, a single penny of this country, what you're supposed to do is come in on the day and at the hour, but you didn't. So we say, "Well, that's not going to solve this problem with these militant judges. Yesterday, what the Prime Minister said, what he said on his way to Iran, what he said, what he said, what he said, what he said, what he said, we will remove the special authority courts. For eight years, every day for seven years, this group has been calling from this bench: these special authorities have no rights, no law, no justice, no murder, no revenge, nothing but public strife. This is a accurate determination. This must come to life at once. Today, the Minister of Justice has an explanation for this, and we care about them, and we support every step we find important. Right next to you, right now, this Anti-Terror Act must be lifted from here, the shame of this country. Yesterday, a friend of ours was sitting here, asking a lot of MPs: "How many years did Kemal Aktaş go to prison? " Kemal Aktaş served twenty-seven years in prison in this country for freedoms in this country, to make Kurds equal citizens, and still thousands, tens of thousands of people like Kemal Aktaş have been in prison for twenty-two years, twenty-two years, twenty-five years. Here's your historic opportunity. The name of facing both corruption and illegality is to make it pure against them together. If you can create purity, we can really go through all of this corruption together, and whoever's in there because of the law, whatever it is, whether it's the Sledgehammer, I don't know, Ergenekon, or the KCK, everyone needs to be free as soon as possible. That's what's fitting for this Parliament. More common sense, more leniency, if we can do that. Look, I've only got one other system: we have a conscience and a brain attack on the mp if we don't... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish with one last sentence. It's very important.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0013par0302	We hear it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0014par0303	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I can't extend time, please, I can't extend time.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0015par0305	If we're sensitive about this, it's not because we're afraid of anyone, it's because we're afraid of them. We speak as our conscience dictates, but you...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0014par0306	Mr. Sakık, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0015par0307	Mr. President, so far, we've lost friends to our group, our party, dozens of times. I wish one of the group's vice presidents would press the button, condemn the injustices and massacres against the BDP. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0014par0310	Thank you. Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0016par0312	Mr. President, in Mr. Sakk's speech, speaking of certain events in Obeliyah...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0017par0313	I'm just saying, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0016par0314	...there is a rumor that the People's Party of the Republic has also been involved in these events.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0018par0315	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0016par0316	Mr Mustafa Moroglu of İzmir will speak, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0018par0317	Mr. Moroglu, your time is two minutes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0019par0322	Mr. President, Councilmen, I don't think there's anything to be said or said about matters to be brought to the House, but I don't think there's any need to remind Sýz Sakık, an experienced man of the years. I came running, watching it on TV. In a place like Dicilli, especially from September 12th, where not only do all democrats, not just intellectuals, but even you can speak freely, I find it wrong to say that in a town where everyone can say their ideas freely, where the festivals are being held, and in a place where the mayor of the Republican People's Party is doing it, it's not right, it's wrong to say that. If there's a place where we're going to fight against limiting democratic rights and freedoms, it's power itself. Please avoid surprising statements to both our people and citizens.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0020par0325	Tell me who attacked the rally, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0019par0326	There's always Republican People's Party to fight for democracy, rights and freedoms, they're in the square, they've paid the price, they're ready to pay. Again, I don't think it's fair to mislead the Council and our citizens with words and rumors. I'd like you to correct the matter from here, Mr. Sakik. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0021par0328	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0022par0329	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0021par0330	Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0022par0331	It's a misunderstanding. I want to fix it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0021par0332	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0022par0333	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0021par0334	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0022par0336	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, I didn't make an accusation, I shared a feeling with you, and I said I was sorry. I know Obelieh very well, and we've all known that democratic stance in Obeliyah for many years, but if there is such a rumor, your group should also investigate. It was a very friendly criticism, or under it was not an explanation for your group. There's been a misunderstanding. I say hello a thousand times to those democratic people in Obelisk. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0023par0340	Thank you. İzmir MP Oktay Vural will speak in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0024par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. Republican People's Party's Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar At the beginning of my words, first of all, in Istanbul, unfortunately, it was planned and targeted for a long time, and one of the attacks against the National Movement Party has been launched. I'm afraid Genghis Akyıldız has received the mercy of Hakk. Such a dire conclusion of the use of weapons, long barreled weapons, is actually very important for an understanding that makes terrorism and violence innocent and legitimizing, by exploiting the benefits of democracy, how it wants to digest society and what it plans to bring society against one another. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we have established our firm position in this regard, especially by expressing that these attacks could be used as a means of increasing social violence and creating polarization and provoking polarization. But praise be to the Nationalist Movement Party and the Turkish nation, the PKK terror organization's extensions have not been set up to be staged by these provocations in universities or in various cities. The Turkish nation will not fall into this trap, and, hopefully, it will bury terror and the political mentality that legitimises terrorism. Yeah, December 17th bribery and corruption investigation. In fact, my dear friends, this is the corruption of the 17th December century. Indeed, in retrospect today, such widespread corruption is not a corruption that can be produced with evidence in the history of the Republic of Turkey. Thus, we are faced with an operation involving some ministers and ministers and their children who have been involved in the corruption and bribery network of the AKP (AKP), which has really been running the Republic of Turkey for 11 years. There's no doubt that these are allegations, but it's the courts that's where these allegations are going to be found. In this regard, what's important in this process is that we're in the process of a December 17th bribery and corruption investigation. There's no doubt that a gang has been formed in this process, a criminal money laundering ring. This illegal money laundering gang is laundering money from abroad with bribes or commissions or watches, and smuggling is legitimized. There are also allegations of an environment in which zoning lobbys, rant lobbys, Istanbul's zoning areas, which the Great City rejected, were directly drawn to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Like I said, it's all a bet. All these allegations need to be proven in court with their lunatics as a fact. But it's a process of money laundering that has actually emerged in this process... On December 11, 2012, a tip was sent to the Prime Minister and the Finance Ministry concerning money laundering, money laundering. The Prime Minister is aware of this, the Ministry of Finance is aware of it. In the same way, on April 18, 2013, the National Intelligence Agency issued a memo to the Prime Minister saying it could cause trouble for the government. In such a grave matter, the government is in a difficult position to provide information about such a black money laundering ring. It is sadly wrong for the legal state to identify those responsible. Why didn't the National Intelligence Agency give it to the authorities who would investigate it when information came in? This is also a question that needs to be answered. So, what we've been going through in this process, the second tender corruption process on December 25th, the allegations of all these processes, the corruption of the tender, the corruption of a tender in İzmir, our experience of this process, and the allegations of money sharing in parks, gardens, dollars in shoeboxes, and euros of such a dirty relationship with concrete evidence. Of course, it is the judgment that will prove the validity of these evidence, and I have nothing to say to him, but there were villa negotiations in Urla. It was returned to the treasure after a holiday, and it was planned to be given elsewhere by means of the treasure. Where should all these allegations come from? Prosecutors and judges must investigate them by independent and impartial courts and decide on the basis of national will regarding them, but unfortunately, police have been banished, prosecutors have been exiled to prevent them from accountability of such a process, the Law of the Judiciary Law has been changed, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors has been ordered to change it. So today, we're learning that it's being given as a last minute, that two prosecutors who've been investigating December 17 have been dismissed. My dear friends, if bribery and corruption are a problem, it is necessary to eliminate those who are involved in bribery and corruption, but to try to cover up corruption and corruption, my dear friends, it is a moral collapse. Straight to the truth, that's what needs to be questioned. In the process of bribery and corruption, unfortunately, it was called a trial coup to cover this process, a coup to the national will, an international gang, an interest lobby. They called it an international gang, they called it an outside conspiracy, they went to the European Union to tell them about it. They said interest is the lobby's game, and it turns out the Federal Reserve raised interest by 3-4 points in the middle of the night. So none of these processes have anything to do with this perception management that I've just expressed. In fact, a coup is a coup against the will of the nation. To make it look like a coup to the law and to manipulate it is to lead people with a false perception. When you say the coup of national will, especially in the 2010 referendum, we answer all these questions about why we should go to the Turkish nation and say yes to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, and then we get up and today, sir, we make mistakes. We say, "We want to change the High Council of State and Prosecutors." As a result of lying to people, receiving their will by lying, Turkey wants to bring a constitutional amendment to the Grand National Assembly today concerning Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council. This painting reveals that there are some facts, my dear friends. These facts are substantially subjective. But when you start covering these facts up for political purposes, he's now trying to cover it up with the perception management of political bribery and corruption. There's absolutely no way that's acceptable. In this regard, as stated in the 10th verse of the Seed, the one who denies the truth when it comes to him is cruel, my friends. So what we need to do is to take into account these truths and determine whether this is really true or not in the judicial process. It's cruel to deny the truth. In that sense, as the National Movement Party, we feel that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should have a hearing about these ministers, and there's no point in putting this on hold. The Minister said here: I am the postman. There's no waiting in the mail. You'll bring the proceedings here, the National Assembly will take the initiative to investigate. In that respect, I call it a challenge. In this regard, it is the work of the prosecutor, the work of the Assembly, the work of these allegations, the work of these facts, the work of the judiciary to determine whether they are true or not. It is not only the coming of the proceedings that must be done immediately. Let Mr. Bulent Arinc sign the first signature, as it has been several times before, and let the AKP lawmakers sign the first signature. Let's open up this Capitol investigation. Together, let the Grand National Assembly of Turkey conduct these investigations. The investigation can be overturned by threats on judges and prosecutors, but in the end, my dear friends, there is no escape from the will of the nation. In that respect, I think it would be good if the Justice and Development Party, not just the coming of the proceedings, but the opening of the Parliament's investigation into these allegations. This is about the arrival of these proceedings... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that we will vote in favor of the group's proposal, and I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0025par0359	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0026par0360	Mr. President, we'd like to make a statement in exchange for Mr. Sakik.'s explanation of the accident in Kayseri.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0025par0361	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0026par0362	Yes, according to 69...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0025par0363	Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0026par0364	If you'll excuse me, our Kayseri MP will make a statement.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0025par0365	Here you go, Mr. Tamer. Your time is two minutes. Please don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0027par0371	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I've come here to make a statement. At two o'clock last Wednesday night, in the wake of an accident, we lost 21 people in the death of 19 people -- the bus bus -- at the beginning of 19 people -- and then another one right after that -- 20 people, and then another one in critical injuries. First, in the beginning, I pray for God's mercy on these lost citizens, and I pray for immediate healing for the wounded. Later, when we went to Kayseri, three of my fellow trustees and I went to visit our patients. We went to two hospitals, visited the patients who were lying there in their bed, asked if they had any needs, even went further, and brought them the greetings of Mr. Sakik, Mr. Faruk, and Mr. Faruk. Because together, together, we think it's one of our greatest qualities to visit them, which is the nature of humanity. But there's also a statement we gave to the press on the way out. The questions we received from the patients who were lying there... about the manner of the accident... they also pointed out that the police stopped at the entrance of the Pinarbaş, that the driver was going too fast, that he had even warned him not to go again, but that it was the main cause of the accident. They said they didn't have any problems. They said they had a statement... to send us to Mush. I also felt the need to see them as a doctor, so I talked to them, and we made them stay. We're still tracking it. There is absolutely no discrimination, there is absolutely no such thing. One of the duties of the social government is to serve your people, your patients in the best way possible, and to express that that's the way it is. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0028par0377	Thank you, Mr. Tamer. Congressmans, there's been a car accident, another car accident followed by one. We've lost a large number of citizens, but, of course, for a week now, our MPs have been bringing this problem up. Of course, we're willing to do whatever duty the House has to offer, but please, let's not compete here, let's not disturb the families. We're all very, very grateful to everyone who's worked so hard on this. Please, let's not have a race about suffering and keeping the family's pain alive again, like I said. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0029par0383	Mr. President, I'm so sorry. No one's racing the pain to get it on record. If there's any negligence, you have to go for it. I mean, we invite Parliament and the public to be sensitive about it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0028par0385	Okay, thank you. We've had enough of this.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0029par0387	There are great claims that these people are in great pain there...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0028par0388	Thank you. There's been enough talk. As I said, again, we ask God's mercy for those who have lost their lives, and we pray for patience for their families, and for their heads. Yes, and now the final speaker against the Republican People's Party proposal is Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz Tunç. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0397	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party group proposal demands that a parliamentary investigation be opened for the discovery of the responsible by investigating the alleged proceedings against some ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and that the issue be discussed on the agenda of the Assembly today. Dear MPs, Parliamentary research is one of the ways to obtain and control information and control the Turkish Parliament, which is listed in Article 98 of our Constitution. Information and control routes have been established in our Constitution as questions, parliamentary research, general discussion, geneor and parliamentary investigation. The question is simply to ask the Prime Minister or ministers for information on behalf of the Council of Ministers to be answered verbally or in writing. Parliamental research is a study of a specific subject. The General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall discuss a specific issue concerning society and state activities. The question is determined by the Council of Parliament and by the way the motions for parliamentary research and general discussion are submitted, through its content and scope, through the way it is addressed, through negotiation and research methods. In the 99th article of our Constitution, the Parliamentary investigation was carried out in the 100th article of our Constitution. The issue of the Republican People's Party group's proposal is the establishment of a research commission to investigate why some alleged proceedings against some ministers reached the Ministry of Justice and why they were not sent from the Ministry of Justice to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Can there be a research commission on this? According to the Constitution and Parliamentary Council, there are no obstacles. The research commission may be set up for parliament to get information on a certain matter, but the shorter and more practical way is a question motion. Lawmakers will be able to obtain the necessary information on the matter of the group's proposal and to give the Minister of Justice again a question proposal, which is one of the Council's ways of information and control. In this regard, both during our legislature work last week at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and during the work of the Parliamentary Justice Commission, our Minister of Justice has been asked questions and answers. Our Minister has announced that the proceedings have reached the Ministry of Justice, and after the proper examination, our legislation has stated that the procedure will be done according to its presumptions. Let no one doubt that the Republic of Turkey is a state of law. Whoever has done wrong, who has gone outside the law, and who has committed corruption, finds the AK PARTY against it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0031par0408	Oh, yeah? Is that why you picked up the D.A. an hour later? An hour later, you took the D.A. off the case.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0409	THAT is the reason why the EC PARTY exists. That's why we were founded in 2001. In our struggle since 2002...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0031par0410	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0032par0411	Do you believe in yourself?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0412	...we are fighting to rid Turkey of corruption, poverty, and bans. That's how it's gonna be from now on.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0033par0413	You're in it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0414	Dear lawmakers, we all need to be sensitive about this. You're a lawyer, and as our former prosecutor, you're picking on us from here. Shouldn't we all be sensitive about this?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0034par0415	But you're not sensitive.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0416	Isn't the purity of the universe sacred?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0035par0417	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0030par0418	Isn't the secrecy of the investigation the rules of our legislation and our Constitution?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0036par0419	The prosecutor who wrote the indictment has been dismissed.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0035par0420	Mr. Original, please... Calm down, friends... Let's just calm down, please.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0422	According to our Constitution, and according to our penal code, no one can be considered guilty unless it is determined by a court order. The principle of the secrecy of the investigation is to protect the purity of the universe. The violation of the secrecy of the investigation is considered a crime in our Criminal Code and is sentenced to imprisonment.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0038par0423	You're covering up corruption.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0039par0424	You're killing the law.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0425	Unless his guilt is proven conclusively, we have to plead not guilty.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0038par0426	You accept philanthropists, philanthropist!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0427	Otherwise, wouldn't we be violating the purity of both human rights and the law? We shouldn't be double standardized.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0040par0428	It's about the operation in Izmir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0041par0429	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0430	Is it not a big contradiction for prosecutors in these courts to make statements today that those who have made criticisms about the investigations and the lawsuits carried out by prosecutors, who have made all kinds of insults to these prosecutors and judges from these platforms and from the group meetings of these parties?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0042par0431	You did the same thing.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0432	In the event that members of the Council of Ministers commit crimes, the process of our Constitution has been established in Turkey's Parliament of the Great Assembly and in our laws. We'll all wait for this process to work out. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are under Article 83, titled immunity from the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0043par0434	Is there a constitution left?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0435	Members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot be held responsible for vote and speech in Parliament's work, their ideas in parliament, unless another decision is made by the Parliament on the proposal of the Presidential Court in that session, they cannot be held responsible for repeating and revealing them outside parliament. A member of parliament who was alleged to have committed a crime before or after the election cannot be held, questioned, arrested, or tried, unless it has been ruled by parliament. This is not the case in Article 14 of the Constitution, provided it is criminally charged and has been investigated before the election. In this case, however, the authorities must report the situation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately and directly. As for the member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the fulfillment of a sentence issued before or after its election is allowed to end its membership adjective; it does not process the statute of limitations during the accession. Investigation and prosecution of the re-elected MP depends on the resumption of parliamentary immunity. Turkey...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0044par0440	Read article 100. It's about an investigation into the minister. It's not parliamentary immunity.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0441	I'll read that too, I'll get to that in a minute. The political party groups in the National Assembly of Turkey cannot and cannot discuss the immunity of legislation. In the first joke of Article 100, the Prime Minister or ministers of Turkey may be asked to open an investigation with at least a tenth of the full number of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Parliament meets this request within a month at the latest and decides with a secret vote. A parliamentary investigation into Prime Minister and ministers who have been or have been removed from office can be requested by at least one-tenth of the majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's integers. This motion requires that the Prime Minister or the minister, who has been asked to be investigated for the general policy of the Council of Ministers or for the duties of the ministries, be mentioned during the duties of the verbs that require criminal responsibility, be cited as a basis for which their verbs are contrary to law and order, and the clause in the form of the Constitution shall be written. This is the regulation of our constitution and our Interior Charter.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0045par0446	Why isn't he sleeping?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0447	It is imperative that parliament allow the Turkish Parliament to pursue the criminal activities of its members within the scope of legislature activity, while prosecution of the crimes committed by the prime minister and the ministers of the Council of Ministers is possible only through the parliamentary investigation. In our Constitution, the process of our Constitution and our legislation is carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0045par0449	How does it work? We need an investigation commission on the ministers.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0450	We all have to wait for this process. Dear lawmakers, you have now heard the statements made by our Minister of Justice, both in the media and in the commissions, as well as in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0045par0452	The Minister of Justice isn't sending it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0453	He made statements that the process was ongoing.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0045par0454	The process cannot continue! He has to send it!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0455	We should all, in fact, be sensitive at that point, to our Constitution's explanation of the secrecy of the investigation and its causality of innocence. Therefore, we will all wait for the process as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'd also like to point out that if a prosecutor is trying to get six sacks from the coroner's office unsealed, without even looking at the documents inside, what criminal investigation are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0046par0458	They know about them, you don't know. Their documents are in the file.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0459	If a prosecutor says it's not an intervention if he's being criticised, it's not an intervention.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0046par0460	There's no dollars in that bag, no dollars...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0037par0461	Therefore, we all have rules to follow. We all have to follow these rules. Therefore, the Republican People's Party says we are against the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0047par0464	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0048par0465	Do you know the backyard, Yilmaz?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0049par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0047par0467	Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0049par0468	You should know about this, you are the prosecutor, you should be more sensitive.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0050par0469	I didn't target it. He made a move, I didn't target him.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0047par0470	Now, he didn't pick on you, Mr. Original. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0049par0471	But, look, you can't...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0047par0472	I listened to your request. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0051par0473	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0052par0474	Why are you yelling, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0053par0475	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0054par0476	Please calm down. Please...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0477	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0054par0478	Because you're a prosecutor, you know them well.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0056par0479	It's a reference.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0480	He told me to be sensitive about it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0054par0481	Actually, there's no bullying here, but I know what's gonna happen if I don't promise you. I promise you two minutes of bullying, just so there's no tension, but I want you to know that the Civil Code isn't being enforced right now.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0482	So he's accusing me of inviting him to be sensitive.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0054par0483	He didn't tell you. He said, "You know that."
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0484	There are reports, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0054par0485	Two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0489	Thank you. Dear friends, now, the orator has just mentioned the Constitution, the Civil Code, and so on... he knows the Constitution, the Civil Code, of course, a friend of ours, a lawyer. But he also knows that the Ministry has not fulfilled its requirements. As you know, this debate about ministers is not really a classic trial, it's not an immunity fezleke, my friends. This is a memo on the Capitol investigation. The future will be read here, addressed to everyone's conscience, the conscience of the legislature members, and there will be a commission of investigation under the signature of one MP. Now, this procedure is not being followed. The minister says: "Sir, we are the postman. Send if you are the postman, brother." What are you waiting for? The prosecutor who is currently investigating December 17th is a friend, 2 friends, Celal Kara and Mehmet Fin have been removed from the case an hour ago. What kind of a law is that? He's writing indictments, guys. When writing the indictment, they're deposed, they're pulling the file.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0057par0492	He pulls, he pulls...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0493	Why are you doing this? Let him do his job. If he's guilty, look, he can't. This is an intervention in the law, the investigation. The executive's definitely interfering with the...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0058par0494	Who's pulling it? Who's doing it?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0059par0495	Please do not interfere with the Hati.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0496	Look, if he's guilty, friends, if he's guilty, investigate him, do what he has to do. Do what you have to do, let him do his duty. Look, no matter what you do, you're gonna get caught up in this. $52 million in bribes, $10 million in bribes about one of your ministers...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0060par0498	That's the bet, the bet...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0061par0499	Where do you get these numbers?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0500	...one with $1.5 million in bribes...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0061par0501	How do you know those numbers?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0502	The case is in the Justice Department, go see...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0061par0503	How do you know the numbers?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0504	...go and see there. Yeah, from here, look, you can't shake it from the tripe; go look over there.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0062par0505	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0506	The files are in the Justice Department. He'll come here, it's the honor of the House. Those files -- I'm speaking to the president of the Parliament -- are the honor of the House, they'll come here, they'll be read here. Then, if you're in line with the causality, you'll be the first to vote for an investigation, if you have a conscience. Is that correct?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0062par0507	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0055par0508	Oh, if you're up for it, brother. You can't just talk shit out of this place. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0062par0511	Thank you, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0063par0512	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0062par0513	Have we started? Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0063par0515	Sir, the speaker stated that those who spoke on the stand did not comply with the purity of the universe, so they were not guilty until the opposite was fixed.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0064par0516	Aren't we going to say that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0065par0517	Aren't we gonna say this? That's not...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0063par0518	We don't execute without a trial, but the evidence is there, the shoe boxes and the tape. We're just saying let the prosecutor work, let the judge work.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0066par0519	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0063par0520	That's what we want. We don't execute without a trial in front of the law, but it's the judges and prosecutors who intervene in this court.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0066par0521	Thank you. It's on the record. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0067par0523	Mr. President, the dear speaker who was just here, he used a phrase like "shaking out of the chair," and I strongly condemn him for it. I want these simple words never to be used again in the House. And if you'll allow our friend to respond to his bullying of our group.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0066par0525	Here you go, Mr. Bronze. Your time is two minutes. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, don't cause any more bullying.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0530	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. It's obvious what I'm talking about. I've already made the necessary statements from our Constitution and from our Parliamentary Office on how to conduct a parliamentary investigation. So he repeated these statements, our orator friend. Anyone who fits the confidentiality of the investigation here. The prosecutors who will conduct these investigations will follow this principle, and the media will follow it, and we will follow it as legislation, and the administration will follow it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0069par0532	You don't fit in, you don't fit in.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0533	So, a criminal investigation is starting, and with its start, with its start, with the arrests, if media is being served, if there are media broadcasts, it's a violation of the secrecy of the investigation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0070par0534	It's the cop who did that, too. Do what you need to do, start an investigation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0535	In this regard, anyone who declares himself a lawyer should respect that. See, valued lawmakers, of course, you can't wear out the AK PARTY over this issue. Our nation sees things clearly. YOU can't wear the AK PARTY down with this mud.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0070par0538	It's not mud, it's dollars.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0539	You can't because if there was corruption in Turkey, we wouldn't be able to turn our country's 81 provinces into construction sites today, we wouldn't be able to invest these investments; we wouldn't be able to afford 13.5 quadrillion homes for our officer, our worker.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0070par0540	The AKP stinks of corruption! Bribery, corruption...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0071par0541	Mr. Original, please do not interfere.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0542	We couldn't pay 3.5 quadrillion obligatory savings. If there were corruption in Turkey today, we wouldn't be able to reset our IMF debt, we wouldn't be able to build 500,000 housing.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0070par0543	You owe $600 billion. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0068par0544	We couldn't bring 81 universities to the province, we couldn't introduce Turkey to fast trains. Prior to the AK PARTY, there was corruption. The 21-billion-dollar bank in this country has been siphoned, and our nation knows it very well. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0072par0547	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0073par0550	Request roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit01spe0072par0551	Okay. Let's take a look at the Republican People's Party proposal before the vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Ayadil, Mr. Öner, Mr. Ören, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Topal, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Akova, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Öz, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Köse, Mr. Kalkavan. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0072par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 6th Amendment. We propose that the expression in the article be changed to the other one. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Haydar Akar Aydın Ağan Ayayan Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğüm Muslim Sarı Hasan Ören Musa Pine Celal Dinçer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the current Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. (c) Family and Social Policy, Economics, Customs and Trade, Labour and Social Security were added to the second part of Article 6-132 of the Law. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 6 of the current 524 rows of the law from the bill. Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Iron Steel Secret Secret Bengi Star Pervin Buldan Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0074par0030	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0072par0031	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0075par0032	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0072par0033	Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Buldan.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0076par0036	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 6th Amendment. I salute the General Assembly. The bill changes legislation on the Ministry of Family and Social Policy's organisation. The changes that are intended to be brought include significant changes about children and the disabled, but we see that women's problems are not included in this arrangement as far as the mountains, dear friends. With all the problems from violence to inadequacies in the field of employment, what else is being done while still 3 women are killed and violent every day but to announce these problems as statistical data? I'd like to ask the Minister, to be honest. Last year, the government removed the Ministry of State for Women and Family Affairs and issued a very important statement of will, replacing it with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Mr. Ayla Akat Akat, who was just mentioned in the 5th article on behalf of our group. When they heard of this action, by ignoring the reactions and demands of the women's organisations, they also showed how sharp their will was, but with the arrangement, not only two words, the family and the women's, on the contrary, a great understanding, the state policy has been replaced, the record of the state's women's policy, the record of women's policy, dear friends. However, for some reason, he didn't find the right place in the press or public opinion. I think women used to be obsessed with the words "woman," "girl," "ma'am," and now they're obsessed with the words "family," "woman." With this action, the state declared that equality of men and women is no longer a priority for him, but is the protection of the family, the cornerstone of the modern state. Gender equality is also too important to be left to the political choice of political power, dear friends. In a state policy that prioritizes a family, women may appear in social life, but in essence, they will be described as an object of family life, not as an independent individual. Women will be charged with the mission that sustains family and traditional values and reproduces them through family, and women will be encouraged to be modern - styled and educated, and women will be expected to put their family and home at the center of their lives, obedient, silent, and selfless. Those who fail to comply with the patriarchal concessions of being seen in social life will be reminded of the place in various forms and invited to line up, as they have so far. Turkey, which shows that it adopts such ideas by signing the European Council of Europe Convention on Avoiding Violence and Domestic Violence Against Women, can't say that it fights violence against women unless it directly fights gender inequality. Trying to prevent shelters, such as protection laws, without questioning or trying to eliminate the causes of violence, is only meaningful when the solution for reasons is developed. The issue of children's brides is one of the most important things that bothers us today. The problems of women and children who have escaped from Syria are just some of the problems that are hurting us right now, dear friends. Syrian refugee women who have fled the war and taken refuge in our country are also dragged into prostitution, being pushed and forced into marriage, because of their poor conditions, unemployment, poverty, and nonprofit social policies. We say not to condone this should be the most important issue of a ministry, and we stress that our new Minister, especially in these matters, should follow a more sensitive policy on the issue of child brides, and we want to say that it is important for us to declare such a development by the Ministry. On the first day of his ministry, Mr. Secretary, these marriages are innocent marriages. We want to express that we want to see this in the Minister's next policies, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0077par0045	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of the current Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. (c) Family and Social Policy, Economics, Customs and Trade, Labour and Social Security were added to the second part of Article 6-132 of the Law. Özcan Yeniçeri (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0078par0053	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0077par0054	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0079par0055	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0077par0056	You're going to talk?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0080par0057	Özcan Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0077par0058	Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0081par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing a provision for the appointment of a representative from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy among the members of the Turkish Standards Institute's Technical Board, which is part of the 6th Amendment of the Turkish Institute of Standards. Family is first of all in a society. The appointment of representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to the Technical Board of the Turkish Standards Institute is also appropriate and a step in the right direction. However, I would like to bring to you a few issues based on the general problems the family faces in Turkey and the way it views the family. In physics, an atom is a cell in biology, and in sociology, it's a family. It is expressed by scientists that the first social structure to be examined to understand the legal, economic, political situation of the communities is family. According to researchers, the family at the center of social life serves as an example to social institutions as the core of social society. In any community, it is possible to see that the family types of the community are always covering their tracks. In this respect, if you want to learn the economic stance of a country, for example, you need to study the production, consumption activity within the family. Family affects the government, too. According to some scholars, the signs of the democracy movement first appear in the family in the thought of equality between men and women. The first legal institution in the community is family. Parents and family lives that have long been unquestioned are no longer clear, everything seems uncertain. Parents have turned into some kind of minefield. Because of these developments, the sense of insecurity is growing and the risk is growing. It's not surprising that most family members view family as a dangerous area at risk. There is also a close relationship between family destruction and social dissolution. The most damaged societies in the family are societies that have reached a certain level of prosperity, so there is an inverse relationship between prosperity and family. Statistics on suicide, divorce, or killings in Turkey do not show social resolution, but also show that the situation is getting worse. The low rate of divorce in Turkey is primarily due to the decisive influence of religious rules. In addition, the education and economic situation of women in the community, especially in the case of divorce, is related to the legal possibility of divorce, as well as the concern that society will not tolerate divorce. Dear lawmakers, even though the mental, religious, and legal barriers presented by history in the family, especially in women's matters, have been significantly corroded in developed societies, there can be talk of a total threat to the family today. It is also possible to view this process as the natural result of modern development. Technological devices and a new way of life seriously threaten family relations. At this point, the media's attitude is exemplary. I'd especially like to get the Minister's attention. Virtual marriage programs, presented on television with great propaganda, upset the traditional family institution. Disgraced and humiliated by television screens, candidates who deal in goods and property in a way destroy and superficialize the institution of marriage. People don't get married anymore, they get together, they don't start a family, they start a company. Relationships based on Facebook, the Internet, cell phone or other technological devices produce great erosion at the marriage institution. In Turkey, the literature of visual and auditory communications towards the family provides a premium for all kinds of deviations. Studies have found that the habit of watching television throughout Turkey is above many countries by four hours and 17 minutes a day. In Turkey, 80 per cent of the people complain about television broadcasts. Until the age of 17, children watch 60,000 murders, death, and injury scenes in Turkey. The more people in the media see violence, the more they want violence. Events such as violence, murder, divorce, and suicide have a lot to do with what happened. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The family is the only permanent established structure in the ever-changing environment, where the individual who fought a relentless war against the outside world returns crushed and broken. This structure must be protected, and in order to protect this structure, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy must do everything in its power. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0082par0073	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. [[The voices of the EC PARTY were not accepted.]] The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 6th Amendment. We propose that the expression in the article be changed to the other one. Hasan Ören (Manisa) and his friends Commission?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0083par0082	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0082par0083	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0084par0084	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0082par0085	Mr. Hasan Ören will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0085par0088	Mr. President, when we open the famous bag law in 524 rows, the main commission goes under Plan and Budget, Justice, Publicity, Internal Affairs, National Defense, Health, etc., but why are these commissions installed, why are they assigned cars to the presidents of these commissions, why do they have rooms? If these things don't come to the commissions, if we're not going to discuss them in the commission, then of course I trust my friends in the Plan and Budget, but these are the residency commissions; don't you think commissions should be here? Unfortunately, your habit continues again. The ruling lawmakers have no problem with that, they don't see themselves as having problems, they are satisfied to lift their finger just by looking at the group's deputy presidents. We're trying to get past the commissions they're on, without thinking about the need to be on the commission, with the bag of laws, with the bag of laws. Now, the addition of the State Department of Family and Social Policy of the Technical Institution of the Turkish Standard Institute of Standards law: the Institute of Standards of Turkey has fulfilled all its duties, and that's all that's missing. Our export from Turkey to China is $3 billion as of 2013. Our imports from China are $20 billion as of 2013. Mr. Prime Minister or Minister of Industry comes out and says: "I'm looking for a man who will build a car." How can you call a man? If all of China's inferior products enter Turkey, is it possible to make mobiles in Turkey if only one usage is 1.5 times the amount of exports I make? So, when you couldn't even build the engine in Turkey, you opened all your doors, and the TSE neglected its role in this matter. No matter who goes, he takes the document on the outside of the property from the TSE about the production being done correctly. Look, I'll give you an example: our Manisa is where the farmers live. We'll put drugs in the pumps, we'll take a look at our vines. There were artists who made that pump in Manisa. They worked in tens, hundreds of places, and they worked in businesses. You'd buy this, you'd pay for it, you'd change it for $3 a year, you'd use this pump for five years, ten years. You've opened the gates wide open. You've brought pumps from China, 40 lira, for disposable, and now there's no one left in the Manisa region to produce pumps. You brought the country's economy here without even knowing it, and you borrowed it. Since December 17th, there has been a disaster in Turkey, and the administration has asked nothing of the living. Is it possible not to see what has happened in Turkey since December 17th? Why do you prefer to stick your head in the sand? Is it possible to ignore the situation today with the industrialist, when the Central Bank raises the interest of 5.75 to 12 points, that this is useless, that it rehabilitates only two hours of foreign currency? The euro that went down to 2,980 is still at 3.150. My dear friends, this country is all ours. When the economic crisis breaks in this country, not only will AKP people suffer from it, Turkey's industrialist, Turkey's tradesman, Turkey's officer, worker, agricultural farmer will suffer. I'm asking you, Turkey is having a crisis, and if you don't turn your face to Parliament to solve this crisis, if you don't do the self-criticism necessary here on December 17th, this ship will sink because of your captain, but you have no right to sink us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0094	Thank you, Mr. Kören. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Subsequent 6...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0087par0097	Sir, you're not looking, we've lifted more!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0088par0098	Sir, count, count!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0099	I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. There are three different motions in the 7th article, and I'm having them read...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0089par0101	Mr. President, would you please look at the hands, the hands that are raised.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0102	Okay, I'll take it from here.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0089par0103	We've lifted too much digitally. It's your job to identify them. They picked up three of us, all of us.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0104	Okay, we'll see about that, along with the clerks. Thank you, Mr. Akar. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "for the maximum five years" in Article 7 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "azami is applied by 524 years" of the "asgarial 7 is applied by 10 years" of the 524 Numbered Bill, "at least 150 per cent" and "to 150 per cent" in order of "two times" and "two times" in accordance with Article 89, which it envisions to add to the first joke of the Article 89 of income tax, dated 31/12/1960. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'd like to propose and change the 7th Amendment of the current 524 rows of the Bill of the Law to be changed in the following way. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Celal Dinçer Aydın Agha Ayyadın Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Musa Çam Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğün MADDE 7-31/12/1960 and the first clause of Article 89 of the IRS Act 193 added the bell to the following. "14. 100 per cent of the annual gross payment paid by other persons and institutions, including the annual gross amount of pensions for mentally or psychologically disabled employees who are employed in protected workplaces established according to Law on the 1/7/2005 and on the 5378 of disabled persons (Induction, for each disabled employee, for a maximum of five years and a year, is not phase 150 per cent of the annual gross rate for each disabled employee.) The Council of Ministers is in charge of the Finance Ministry by taking the opinion of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to determine the procedures and foundations related to the implementation of the Bendin," he said. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0090par0133	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0134	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0091par0135	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0136	Who will speak on the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0092par0137	Mr. Ediboglu...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0086par0138	Mehmet Ali Editoglu will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Ediboglu.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0093par0140	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 7th Amendment of Law Bill 524. In this article, it is said that there are several standards among the standards set by the Turkish Standards Institute that concern the disabled, so that the Ministry of Family and Social Policy should contribute to the decision-making process through the representation of its highest body, the General Assembly of the TSE. As it is known, the biggest flaw in the creation and implementation of policies aimed at facilitating the lives of disabled individuals is the lack of disabled individuals in the decision-making and practical mechanisms. It is difficult for disabled individuals to participate actively and effectively in the decision-making process in the creation of policies for disabled individuals. The public's preconceptions about the disabled are not yet shattered. Unfortunately, the work of disenchanting prejudices is far from the result it has yet to be desired. The disabled individual is still considered to be the one to be helped and protected. This view poses a major obstacle to strengthening and protecting the rights of a disabled individual. Another obstacle is that a demeaning language for the disabled is unfortunately still functional and a human rights-based language has not been created. It is necessary to assess the effective participation of disabled individuals in decision-making processes within the scope of the Convention on the Rights of the United Nations and to consider the right to determine the fate of the disabled person. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the disabled is also considered the first human rights agreement in the 21st century. This agreement extends the rights and space of the disabled, and it also provides a stronger structure by referring to human rights contracts protecting basic rights and freedoms, protecting the disabled individual's human rights. As it is known, the Convention on the Rights of the United Nations was adopted on 13 December 2006 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, signed by our country at the same time, and entered into force with Law No. 5825, dated 3 December 2008 and adopted by the Grand National Assembly of the United Nations. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers also recognize the fact that the United Nations Convention (k) has various mechanisms for the protection of human rights of disabled persons and that disabled individuals are being violated as equal individuals in society. In human rights, strengthening a disabled individual is an important thesis. The fact that the disabled person has a say in his own body and his destiny, his active participation in policies and decision-making processes for the disabled, will also enable him to establish equal relations and equal citizenship with other parts of society. Dear lawmakers, the mission of the disabled movement is also an important factor in removing the obstacle to the disabled and allowing the disabled to participate effectively in decision-making processes. Unfortunately, neither the NGOs nor the Ministry have ever followed a road based on aid and protection for a disabled individual. This understanding gave priority to activities that prioritize daily life, not to remove obstacles to the public space of a disabled individual, but also to legitimize the isolation of a disabled person in the private area. Whether the streets are fit for a wheelchair has not been on the agenda of both local governments and the NGO and the Ministry. The fact that relevant NGOs are collaborating with both local governments and the Ministry has not developed a right-based disabled understanding. Recently, a little right-based approach is taking the lead, and the sense of the NGO, which distributes wheelchairs, is partially destroyed. In addition to being a major pusher of the United Nations Convention on Rights, the fact that a disabled individual follows the world through the Internet, studies in the field of education, and disabled individuals in particular have knowledge of their rights at higher education, and, depending on that, factors such as economic independence have also led the fight of a disabled individual to a right-based area. This trend is not enough for the disabled to participate in decision-making processes for the time being. The NGOs and the Ministry, which prioritize the rights of the disabled, stand before us as a necessity for more serious and active activities to take place. The solution to the problems facing disabled individuals is effective participation in decision-making processes. Participation in decision-making is also one of the most important steps of being an equal citizen. The NGOs, which prioritize the rights of the ministry and the disabled, must go to the conclusion using the official and civilian press force to ensure that more disabled individuals will take part in the position of top executives in political parties, parliament, local governments, trade unions, public and private sectors. This is the only way that disabled individuals can have a say in their decision-making process at the point of determining their own destiny. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0094par0150	Thank you. Before we vote, I ask the lawmakers to raise their hands to show the color of their vote, and I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the "azami is applied by 524 years" of the "asgarial 7 is applied by 10 years" of the 524 Numbered Bill, "at least 150 per cent" and "to 150 per cent" in order of "two times" and "two times" in accordance with Article 89, which it envisions to add to the first joke of the Article 89 of income tax, dated 31/12/1960. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0095par0157	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0094par0158	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0096par0159	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0094par0160	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0097par0163	Congressmans, no one can think of putting such an important item in this bag of law, in fact, for tax pursuit, for its credibility, and to put it on surveillance, to plug it in, to get a source, a profit, a runt from there. See what it's called: there's a reform on the Tax Code, there's a draft, the Plan and Budget Commission discussed, and the future will be discussed here. So, what's the rush, what's the rush? You have to understand why this stuff was put in this bag. See what it says: it has an obligation to use electric, electronic, magnetic and similar devices and systems, with this system channel -- look -- bandrol, stamps, barcode, holograms, clippings, symbols, to use special labels and markings to the private sector. It's called a substance to track down the taxpayer. This is where the taxpayer is being tagged. The taxpayers are being followed from here, whether they owe the IRS money or not. So from the barcodes, how much does every taxpayer owe to the Treasury, when he gives the tax, when he gives the tax... at first glance, it's clear that we brought this stuff to follow the black money, and we brought this stuff to supervise the tax. Well, brother, every day... another bag will be here in a week. There's a ton of fiscal amnesty in that bag. There will be provisions concerning taxes, bonuses, insurance, and financial debts; transfers, installments. So, why are you letting the private sector handle this? It is said that the 5th article of the Law of Contraction is not included in the jokes. You will give it to the private sector in violation of the tender law. Now, you give this to real people or corporate people, to be audited and authorized. Think of it this way: You guys went to the store, is there a bandroll on everything? I do. Bandrol can remind you of copyright in the first place -- the CDs, the DVDs, the ideas and the works of art -- at first glance, but it's not. In all the products, this bandol thing... Does he have a standard? No. Stamp: Is it valuable, is it worth money, is it a Mint case or not? Where do you print the money, the stamp? He's in the Mint. Why are you giving this to the private sector when you have a mint? Understandable... no. Barcode: You know, in products, when they have striped prices, they click, knock, and they get accounts, and they get the Barcodes, and they get these private companies. Hologram, gram structure: here's the subject of detection by laser beams. When you say e, you think of newspaper clippings, and you think of bag clippings, a thousand different types of clippings. E, stamp: The stamp tax is the subject of a separate legal arrangement. So, the symbol: you bring the symbols in and put them in, according to what? Now, you're going to bring all this to private companies, to real and corporate people, and they're going to print the label on the cap of the altitude, they're going to print the stamp on the eggplant, they're going to put the markings on the rice bag, and there's going to be a rise in fuel, natural gas every day, and these private companies are going to hide these bands, and they're going to hit the jackpot there. Here's another Ponzi scheme! Opening the door to such a Ponzi scheme to these private and commercial companies, removing the country's public control here, it's not a rationality over so many operations, my friends. It's coming from a very wrong point. We're warning you: take the printing press, take the mint, press the gold, print the money, and take them all to the press. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's a very wrong approach. This is an unacceptable arrangement, we want it removed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0098par0175	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "for the maximum five years" in Article 7 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Bulent Belen (Tekirdağ) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0099par0182	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0098par0183	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0100par0184	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0098par0185	Mr. Belen will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Bulent Belen.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0101par0188	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 7 of Law Bill 524 under discussion. I hereby salute your delegation and the great Turkish nation watching us on their screens. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my remarks, I offer my condolences on the mercy of Yusufiyeli Cengiz, who was killed in Esenyurt district of İstanbul on Sunday (January 26th), and my condolences to my fellow nationalists, including his family and relatives, and to our brothers who have been injured in the traitorous attack. The perpetrators and instigators of this bitch attack must be arrested and handed over to the judge immediately. As you know, a number of separatist elements exist in the district of Esenyurt. This is also known by law enforcement. However, although this is known, we are also questioning the nationalist Action Party's opening of the election co-ordination centre, which is almost a steel wall in the face of separatist elements, as well as the National Movement Party. We expect Mr. Secretary of the Interior to inform Mr. President of the State Garden, who has given the cause and its responsible ones, as soon as possible. As our president-in-chief stressed in his group speech yesterday, this attack can't deter us, it can't disrupt our motivation. Let no one think we've lost, let no one think we've lost, let no one think we've lost, that we'll turn our way, that we'll deviate from our goals, that we'll slip away from our goals. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let's come to the 7th article of the bill: The number of disabled citizens in our country is around 1,700,000, according to recent research. The AKP government, which entered its 12th year, signed some work that needed to be done for the disabled during this period, but failed to reach the desired and desired level. On top of that, a AKP MP, who made an effort to offer as a blessing to our brothers, we treated you as a man, before us families considered their disabled relatives to die. He offended our disabled brothers using expressions. It must not be forgotten that every person who is not disabled now is a disabled candidate. Any work that governments do for the disabled and do for the disabled is a necessity, not a blessing. Our disabled citizens need to be integrated with society, to be able to maintain education and social lives without the help of others, to create physical and social environments, to be implemented effectively. At the point where our disabled citizens can be employed, contribute to production and be brought to society, the necessary work must be done by increasing and accelerating. The item we're talking about aims at adding a new bell to Article 89 of the Taxes Act to the maximum amount of income tax for five years, for those of our disabled citizens who are employed in protected workplaces. Surely this is an important step in the employment of disabled citizens, but our objection as the National Movement Party Group is to limit income tax to five years. This period of employment for disabled citizens must be completely removed from the bill and must be used for tax exemption until they retire indefinitely. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, no matter what anyone does for the good of our disabled citizens, I repeat once again that we are always prepared to give our support as the National Movement Party, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0102par0194	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 8 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke in Article 257 of Tax Code 213, which is estimated to be replaced by Article 8/1/1961 of the Law Bill 524, which is currently in session; "in the introduction of special labels and markings such as bands, stamps, barcodes, holograms, clippings, stamps, symbols, to the tax offices of the Treasury, to bring in documents that the taxpayers do not have due due dues, to find out by means of this obligation, and in what circumstances they will not be sought." I propose that his testimony be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Aydın Ajan Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Gökdir Gökmen Öğütü Musa Pine Müslim Sarı Izzet Cetin Celal Dinçer Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 8th article of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Erkan Akçay The signatures of the second motion are: His secret is the Saqak Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0103par0224	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0102par0225	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0104par0226	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0102par0227	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0105par0228	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0102par0229	I'm reading the reason: This provision, which brings privileges to true and legal individuals, eliminates control, ignores tender provisions, causes appreciation. Otherwise, there will be more bankers to replace the Mint. The other speaker is Mr. Bulent Belen, our Tekirdağ MP, please.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0106par0233	Mr. President, I have received the pledge of our group's motion on Article 8 of the proposed bill. I salute you and your delegation as a member of a family of conquerors who crossed the creek, which I call my own honor. The Ministry of Finance is authorized to use electrical, electronic, magnetic and similar devices and systems approved by the Finance Ministry in order to ensure the safety of Article No. 213 of Tax Code No. 213, and to provide specific tags and foundations for the use of special labels and symbols, such as the number 237, and the number of Taxes Act 213, dated 4/1/1961. Under the regulation, true and legal persons are authorized to do the work done by the mint and stamp printer, including the 10/12/2013 and the 5018 Public Financial Management and Control Act, which is not expired for more than five years, and the 4734 Public Retribution Act -- except for the fifth joke of Article 5/12/2013 -- in accordance with its provisions. It is not right that the work done by the mint and stamp printer should be given to real or legal persons within the scope of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 and Article 4734 of Public Contraction Law. This change brings to mind the question, "Has anyone been found to do this work, and have negotiations been made? " Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who are today's current problem, Bosporus and Fatih Sultan Mehmet, have decided not to move fruit and vegetables to İstanbul for four days with the decision to change the hours of heavy loads of vehicles that have been under way over the years. At the end of four days, they say that if their demands are not met, they will carry out this action for another fifteen days. Of course, there are a variety of victims here, but they will be the most victims, naturally from Istanbul. The rising price of fruit and vegetables will further increase the flame in the pocket of our already burning pensioners, our officers, our tradesmen, the small-income. The demands of the fruit, the vegetable shipping trade are clear. Since the food and vegetables found in their vehicles can be corrupted at any time and should be delivered on time, the tradesman demands that the curfew be stretched out for them. We believe that the parties of the matter will quickly come together and find a reasonable solution so that our citizens can feed themselves and their children at better prices on these cold winter days. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have made a commitment to fight 3Y when the AKP comes to power, but for the past 12 years, let alone fight it all even more. Corruption operations launched in late 2013, followed by resignations, shoeboxes, safety deposit boxes of $20,000 in rentals, are on the agenda for liquidation, which began in watches, safety and judiciary. I don't know if there's any need to talk about corruption. We can all see how poor our citizens are in everyday life. We have increased the national income of power. The stock market went up, and our dollar reserves increased to this much. The stories ended in fact with the interest increase made by the Central Bank last night, and unfortunately our poverty was registered once again. The annual increase in social benefits, which the government is always bragging about, also demonstrates how much our citizens have become dependent on the help of the state over the years. We've come to the point where we're going to cry about bans on Third Y. The latest example of this is the Internet bans, the most controversial part of the current bag of law proposals. Other than that, broadcasts against the government in written and visual media are not allowed to go unpunished by RTÜK. Another example of the bans is that the entry and exit of the Kızılay Square, a rare green area located just 500 metres below, was banned from citizens by the arbitrary implementation of the Prime Minister. Citizens are now waiting for the Prime Minister to move into his new palace and return to his park. I hereby declare that we will vote against this clause with these thoughts, with respect.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0107par0242	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first joke in Article 257 of Tax Code 213, which is estimated to be replaced by Article 8/1/1961 of the Law Bill 524, which is currently in session; "in the introduction of special labels and markings such as bands, stamps, barcodes, holograms, clippings, stamping, symbols, to the tax offices of the Treasury, to provide documents that are due due to the taxpayers, to find and to determine by what means they will receive amme under this obligation, and in which cases they will not be required to be sought. I propose that his testimony be removed from the text of matter. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0108par0251	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0107par0252	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0109par0253	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0107par0254	İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0110par0257	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the 8th article of the bill we've discussed envisions a change in Article 257 of the Tax Code. The clause of the Tax Code includes an arrangement to bring the taxpayers the use of signs such as bandrol, barcode, symbol, stamp, etc. to ensure tax safety. However, of course, the Finance Ministry can bring these arrangements, all of which are extremely important in order to ensure tax safety. They're now used to produce cigarettes with the liquor industry, but it seems that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, will spread them to various products or sectors over time. These are the right arrangements for tax safety. Again, it comes down to this: this is important: there is an obligation to use bandrol -- such as in the alcohol industry and in the cigarette industry -- in case the taxpayers don't pay the tax debt in any way -- there is an arrangement here to not be given to them again, where the Finance Ministry is authorized. This authority must undoubtedly be used very carefully. Some of the taxpayers involved in this obligation may abuse symbols, markings, documents, such as bandrol, holograms. Of course, in the face of this abuse, the Ministry of Finance may take the necessary measures, which can be met normally, I find natural, but to those who have not been able to pay the tax debt in any way beyond that, such a obligation should not be given to citizens who are unable to meet their tax obligations in time due to a very difficult situation. The second thing I'm going to say is that this provision for those who don't pay their taxes should be made not in the Law of Taxes, but in the Law on the Collectives of Amme Number 6183. Two things shouldn't get mixed up. The arrangement for the use of signs such as Bandrol, holograms, etc. is based on the Law on the Collectives of Amme Buyers 6183, which should be taken for those who have failed to pay the tax debt when the Tax is the Law. So let's say it's pratic, and let's do it in one item. He might have chosen a way of doing it, but it's wrong, it's the Law 6183. I suggest to the Ministry of Finance that perhaps time has passed now, but in the first arrangement, please move this to Law 6183. The other thing I'm going to say is that the Tax Code is a law that regulates the regulations of all tax laws. Such a law does not include exceptions to Law No. 5018, exceptions to Public Contraction Law 4734. Dear friends, the law can't be so ugly. No one has the right to put such exceptions into the Tax Code. Please, look at the regulations of the financiers of that era, who passed this law in 1961, and look at the following arrangements, such exceptions do not appear in the Tax Code. If you wish, you can place such exceptions in the Public Financial Management and Control Act, number 4734, as temporary matter regulations. That way, I don't fit the law-making technique in the head, in the eye, in the Ministry of Finance, in his savings. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit02spe0111par0263	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 45-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0111par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are three motions on Article 9 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to propose and change the 9th amendment of the current Law Bill 524 rows in the following manner. ADDDE 9 - 2/7/1964 and added to the Law on Harms No. 492 are applied by 50 per cent in my assessment of the 1st joke (a) of the article entitled llI-Determination and tuition fee of the Charter (1) (e.g., "A") to come before the declaration of the Council of Ministers (a). Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğümım Müslim Sarı Uður Flagtutan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0112par0033	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0111par0034	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP, is on the motion to speak. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0113par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We're facing a bag of legislation under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, but this 9th article in particular has nothing to do with the concept of family or social policy. In particular, it's a law clause that enhances the poverty and poverty of the working families, which is organized according to the wishes of the rich, and, of course, is very far away from an equitable and fair approach to the community in general. It's not social, it's still working for the rich. In its establishment, the tuition costs for the prosecution trials are taken 50 per cent as part of the Istanbul International Centre for Finance Strategy and Action Plan. I mean, what is it? Again, a privilege brought to the rich class, to the capital cut. Istanbul has already been trying to distance workers from workers, banish workers, and make it a city that corresponds to the needs of international capitalist capital, bank, finance and their image. The arrangement, called Galataports, Halichports, various shopping malls, cultural centers, which once again offers this economy of rant and corruption to capital in such a pie form comes to our attention. If you say, who needs it? This is a provision that has served these capital sections for years, which the government has once again determined, that it does not heed the people of Istanbul, nor does it ask. Especially after these December 17th corruption debates, their investigations, it's a thought that such an arrangement will come. In particular, the Prime Minister, after his statement recently made by the president of TÜSIAD, in the polemics that he entered with this capital organisation, you became rich because of us, but in spite of you, we were in power in this country. Again, the last to win in Turkey will be 76 million, not certain capital circles. So in drafting this law, there is a law proposal made by an elite group, capital circles, TÜSİAD, ÜSİAD, the foundations they founded, the foundations they run, the people who are rich by the hands of these government environments, but we will return and consider the welfare of 76 million people again, the Prime Minister says. And on top of that, what does it say? In this country, prosperity has come to such a level that even the janitors now own a car. Now, there's a story in the Universal newspaper today, and one of the janitors, Recep, says: "What car owner, dear, we live in houses like cars." Yes, that's the word he uses, we live in houses as big as cars. He has to spend his entire life in that one-eyed room, serving those who live in that apartment with his family of four. If I were to live in a place like this, I would have bought a car by now. So the reality of the country remains, while the Prime Minister still finds refuge in his beloved understanding of the unfinished orphan account. What's one of the most common concepts? We're all in the same boat, and if this ship goes down, we'll all go. But those who put their millions of dollars in exchange and make money on the exchange, that December 17th, when they're doing the books on these outrageous post-corruption increases, it's the janitor Receps who are going to pay the bill. Against this injustice, against this city's robbery, against the city's crime, an honest candidate in Istanbul, and Sırrıyya Önder says to the people, "The city is yours now." Let's not let these thieves, these robbers, these looters invade the country, Istanbul. Take over the city, city life. This happened on the trip, and the people stood up, but the Prime Minister and the AKP government, who did not learn from Gezil in June, again brought these laws and continued to manipulate the people from the other side and to rule this country. Let the Prime Minister explain: "The pineapple, the pineapple, the pineapple, the pineapple." He's trying to explain it to the great owners of the refinery in Uganda, which rich companies, which capitalist companies, which international connections.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0114par0047	Thank you, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0113par0048	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0114par0050	Mr. Bulent Belen, MP Tekirdağ will be speaking on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0115par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have received a pledge from the National Party for Action on Article 9 of Law Bill 524 under discussion. I hereby salute your delegation and the great Turkish nation who can't watch us at the beginning of their screens. There is no right reason for a decision and a half reduction in the court's decision on the matter. Basically, all tuition must be reviewed and the tuition must be reduced to reasonable levels in accordance with the grounds. In 2012, the state collected taxes on 277.7 billion Turkish liras. In addition to tax collections, income tax is 56.5 billion Turkish liras, institution tax 29 billion Turkish liras, and other direct taxes are worth 7 billion Turkish liras. The indirect taxes totalled 187 billion Turkish liras. The total percentage of indirect tax revenues in total tax revenues has been 35 per cent in countries in the European Union, and we have almost 2 times that, almost 68 per cent. Turkey's public finances, unfortunately, have been constantly burdened with indirect taxes because they have not been able to collect taxes directly from citizens for years. This raises the tax injustice in Turkey day by day. A minimum waged citizen receives the same amount of taxed gas as natural gas and natural gas from a well-being citizen. This is a sign of injustice. On the one hand, you're going to get EVVV, which is 45 per cent from the car that everyone needs, and on the other hand, you're going to get VAT from the unequivocal VAT, which is not an example in the world; on the other hand, you're not going to get VAT from the diamond and jewelry, which is a total luxury expense. You'll get a TV from the gas that the farmer used to plow his field, you'll get a UV from the gas that the mover used, but you won't get that tax from the rich man's yacht. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the unrest in the markets since December 17th, unfortunately, have upset the economic indicators. Under the pressure of power, the Central Bank administration has not been able to analyze the situation well. Turkish lira has lost 23.6 per cent since 22 May and has been missing 17.4 per cent since 17 December. Since the end of 2012, our money has lost 29.6% to dollars and 34.7% to euros. In the process, economic management and institutions have failed to create a competitive environment. Since long, Turkish lira has been allowed to melt assets, investment and employment are blocked. The use of the National Bank's interest weapon, one of the mechanisms that could prevent this situation, was not done in time due to political pressures, the net currency reserves were melted directly into the market, and at the point that came, the Financial Policy Board went to an embarrassing and veiled interest increase on January 21st, causing confusion. What if he's gone? And that didn't work, and the 40 percent increase in interest didn't reduce the temperature of the dollar. The increase in the courses is more expensive than the increase in interest in our nation. Each 10 per cent increase in foreign currency is 1.5 points for inflation, with an additional 3.75 points for the expenditure of our citizens since May. In addition to the pocket of 20 million households, it is roughly causing 45 billion Turkish liras to come out of its pockets. The interest payments of our households are only 5 per cent of their disposable income, and there are no foreign currency obligations. These payments include the need, the dwelling and the vehicle, the Turkish lira loans. The interest increase will not harm our people. In this regard, we, the National Movement Party, are expressing what will happen to our citizens today, in the coming months. Political and economic risks for our country continue, and as always, the consequences will be on our nation. The March 30, 2014 elections give us the best chance to give the people who have lived this failed economy the best answer. I also see that our citizen will give the necessary warning of power in these elections, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0116par0064	Thank you. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'd like to propose and change the 9th amendment of the current Law Bill 524 rows in the following manner. ADDDE 9 - 2/7/1964 and added to the Law on Harms No. 492 are applied by 50 per cent in my assessment of the 1st joke (a) of the article entitled llI-Determination and tuition fee of the Charter (1) (e.g., "A") to come before the declaration of the Council of Ministers (a). Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Commission?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0117par0072	I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0116par0073	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0117par0074	The point of this motion, of course, is that not all disabled people are possible in our country today. At the same time, it is possible for those who lack the power to pay their judicial costs to the Law Law of 6100 to take advantage of the legal aid when they file a lawsuit. I'd like to explain that, and I'd like to say that we disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0116par0076	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Ugur Bayrakttu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0118par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. I made a promise on the 9th amendment of the Law Bill 524. I salute the grand jury. Members of parliament, the basic argument that we need to first explain about the investigation is that in the trial of the judge, the amount calculated by me is 50 per cent. They're putting in a motion to make it more attractive to apply for a reduction in tuition. You know, it's a method that solves conflict through private institutions called arbitration boards. We're here to demonstrate a form of attraction that when we reduce the amount of tuition to 50 percent, we can make the inquiry more attractive, that we can create an alternative judgmental administration. Now, before I came here, there are separate pages on the websites of the investigation-related trading rooms, the sea trade rooms, the websites, about the appeal of the investigation in terms of methods of judgment. So there's a notice on which people will benefit from my claim, which industry will benefit more. Now, when we look at the normal fees in the investigation, I mean, when we look at the fees outside of the tuition, these prices are already low. And the inquisitor has already the advantage of his inner world in terms of which, in terms of the advantage, is the alternative, in exchange for the trial. What's all this? Look, it's justice that's late, not justice. When you appeal to trials, unfortunately, the trials last long in Turkey, but what is the main objective of the investigation? It's that judgment can be shorter. I mean, in terms of charm... The second method is that, according to the nature of this issue, businessmen are the ones who take the initiative, and they usually apply for it. Industrialists have the right to choose who can be an expert in these matters when they apply, but that's not in the way they judge. You don't know which judge he'll stand in front of, as a general judge's principle, but you're required to appoint an expert on this subject, which may be valid; this is an advantageary method of reasoning. A third advantage is that privacy can be the basis of the inquiry, which is an advantage. I mean, besides the method of judgment, it can be handled in secrecy, which could be an advantage. Other than that, the arbitration decisions, the arbitration decisions, as well as the court's decisions, can be carried out in a certain sense, as can be done in a court of law; this is an advantage. Another advantage is that by agreeing, the parties can determine the method of judging each other on how they can resolve their own investigation. This may be a written method of judgment, a simple method of judgment, and they can also establish a method of judgment in accordance with the legal framework adopted by the Law of Law. What I'm trying to tell you from here is that with all of this, when there's a huge advantage for those who are going to resort to five articles, even though this 5 clauses alone have given us an advantage, it's not possible for us to agree to take a 50 percent reduction in the Law of Harçes with a legal arrangement, to make it an advantage, to make it a center of attraction. For what purpose, and for what reason, it is not possible to understand. Once again, I'm going to say from that point of view that if he feels the need for a law-making legal arrangement in this way, not in the manner of prosecution, in terms of trial, in fees, in expense, in costs of judgment, in the costs of discovery, you know, the Law enforcement Act has changed, and now the costs are being stored from the start. Therefore, it is not possible to understand the 50 per cent reduction of the Law on Harçs without applying to the courts, which is the general method for which a large population of citizens has applied, by putting aside any method on tuition or 50 per cent without a 50% discount. Because when you look at the intervals in the investigation, when you look at the intervals of certain costs, you're already taking expenses in the application methods alone, and the initial fees are already low when they're compared to the fees in the courts in the trial. I mean, when you compare the costs of the trial in court, the initial fees, the costs of the investigation, and the costs of the investigation, you see the difference between the two, the costs of the charge are more attractive, but that doesn't mean that it's not enough. There's pressure on this, there's some lobbying activity because it's not a need, it's not a need. So some of these segments have expressed their demands that the amount of tuition taken here is too much, that such a need has been born. In our opinion, when these principles are taken into consideration, in terms of the lawmaker's generality, in terms of the practicality, generality, abstractity and objectiveity of the law, I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0119par0091	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 10 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tenth of the current bill of law. We would like to add the expression of the non-blood relatives to the end of the statement and the expression of the non-blood relatives. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayayan Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğüm Muslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the report, which will be submitted under Article 10 of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and Law Law Act, which is held in 524 rows, I shall request and propose that the application of the application of the application of the first-degree blood relatives of the family members of the disabled officers be met by the institution. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, shall be changed in the following form. The following joke was added after the fifth joke in Article 657 of State Officers' Law, dated 10-14/7/1965. According to the report under the relevant legislation, regulations are made by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy by the State Chief of Staff in order to meet the demands for the replacement of the disabled officers, whose family has a spouse or first-degree blood relatives. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0120par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0119par0121	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0121par0126	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I've been in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for two semesters. In this period when the Justice and Development Party alone is in power, with power in hand, with numbers in its possession, with the ability to pass laws healthy and mature, almost all laws so far have been restored, then, wrapped up in bags, sacks, and tried to correct, and completed the time of the House. The government has carried out a serious policy in the bureaucracy, with the same government's changing ministers at different times replacing the positions in the bureaucracy, not the driver's license, not the merit, but the area, loyalty, the party's formation, caring for it, almost all of the proposals that have been presented to them have been incomplete from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I can honestly say that opposition lawmakers are working harder than ruling lawmakers. We know that the opposition won't be able to change the plans you've brought in, but we do know that in such seriousness and sincerity that with their motions here, with their constant talks, the right bill, the law that they've made in order to make the right decision on power, the right bill, the law that they've made in place of subservient labor, and the public's reputation in the middle of the night with laws that have been smuggled out of here, with the photos taken by lawmakers sleeping in the middle of the night. The Justice and Development Party is responsible for this. This government, which reduces the power of politicians to bureaucracy, brings the laws that he has put into the bag today, again today, to complete the shortcomings, in order to complete. What does privatizing land roads have to do with the Ministry in charge of the family? What does impounding the Internet have to do with this Ministry bill? Like this, being filled in... here's the state of the House, look at the participation of our MPs! The television does not show that everyone contributes to this, but by saying wrongly, right and right, by sticking to the oath that we made here, it is Turkish nation's, not the freedom of the revolution's, but the free members of the free parliament's free parliament's free will have to come up with the right laws in common and vote in public. However, we do see that in the framework of the motion that we've made in our country, there are a number of eight million people, a trust, a trust, a vote they've given to the Turkish community, a lot of problems for the disabled in a system that transports us here with the votes they've given us, the hard work they've done, the disabled in our efforts, the disabled in our ability to produce them, the overlooked in the community, the unsatisfactory in the bureaucracy, the jobless, the taxing, the taxing, the taxing, the taxing. I'm going to address those problems in my other speech. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0122par0133	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the report, which will be submitted under Article 10 of the 10th Amendment to the Constitution of the Law and Law Law Act, which is held in 524 rows, I shall request and propose that the application of the application of the application of the first-degree blood relatives of the family members of the disabled officers be met by the institution. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0123par0140	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0122par0141	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: It is a positive arrangement that will facilitate the appointment of first-degree relatives of the officer responsible for caring for disabled citizens. However, the appointment of a close relative to whom a disabled officer is obliged to take care of is also costly. Therefore, it should be added to the arrangement that some money should be given by the agency where the officer works to help pay for the road costs. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tenth of the current bill of law. At the end of the term "subjected to care for blood relatives" in the article, we would like to add the expression "and non-blood care providers." Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0124par0152	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0122par0153	Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0125par0158	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 10 of the Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. The item we're discussing envisions a change in Article 72 of State Officers' Law No. 657. I don't see the need to explain over and over again how harmful these kinds of practices of the bag law are, but I find it useful to remind you that in Article 5 of our Constitution, the main objective and duties of the state are to ensure the welfare, peace and happiness of individuals; the objective of the state is to eliminate the political, economic and social barriers limiting their fundamental rights and freedoms; and its primary objective is to make the conditions necessary for the development of man's material and spiritual existence, to eliminate any obstacles that limit basic rights and freedoms. Today, 9 million are known to be disabled in our country. This number is about 12 percent of our population. So, these numbers make power seem like they're doing something for the disabled on every election eve, and they lead to their imagination and zeal to get votes. Yet, new promises are being distributed in a bag of legal proposals, even before their legal arrangements are fully met. This offer we're talking about is one of them. Dear lawmakers, employment is very important in providing individual and social welfare. The biggest problem with disabled people is employment, which we all know very well. As of 2013, the number of disabled officers and workers in the public sector was only 44,000, while the number of disabled people employed in the private sector was 81,000. 15,000 of our disabled people are involved in working life, so we have a lucky 15,000 of our 9 million disabled citizens. Yeah, the rest of you! For them, it's just empty promises and disappointments. You all know that our laws provide disability reductions in income tax for disabled people who work. Do you know how much this annual discount rate has been increased in 2014? It's a big zero, so there's no increase. Like one of our ministers said, they hired you, brother, what more do you want? Another problem is: Since 2007, our disabled citizens, who have been working for temporary labor status at forest headquarters, cry out, we work for six months, we get a lot of work; our friends who are disabled can go to other jobs when they don't work for six months, but we don't have that opportunity, so put us on the staff. They say, they shout, but they don't listen, but there's no one who can help them. Mr. Secretary, please do something for the recruitment of about 6,000 temporary contractual disabled workers in the public sector. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, our disabled citizens in today's world have not only job problems, there are many physical barriers ahead of their participation in social life; broken surface roads, unsecured infrastructure work, very high sidewalks, bulging yellow strips on the streets, the transport system and tools that cannot serve the disabled; these are the problems faced in dense transportation and life. Now I'd like to show you some pictures, which I wish all municipalities would take into account. Yellow strips are made, it comes and ends right in the middle. Is that possible or acceptable, Minister? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Another practice: the road was made in the forbidden suffragette, and the yellow strip was finished right in the middle of the tree. Is this practice acceptable, Minister? The citizen makes fun of it now, it's a 10-metre road, and then another ladder, and then he makes fun of its name from the Internet. Here, we must end this ordeal, Minister. We have to find a cure for these people, put these people out of their misery. You're always extending the law, and here are the yellow strips that the municipalities make. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's not just comfort the disabled with empty words. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0126par0175	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit03spe0127par0176	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough decision-making, there's a disagreement between the clerks. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0127par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on Istanbul MP Celal Dinçer and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted. Congressmans, before Article 11 there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause can be discussed on the motions the commission has already attended, and a number of motions may be submitted in this article. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with only a majority of 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause, and if the Commission simply disagrees, I will remove the motion from the process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the following clause after Article 10 to the Charter of the Laws and Amendments to the Laws under which 524 Family and Social Policy Ministry are in session. The following sentence is added to the second joke of Article 100 of Article 11-657 of the Law. "In accordance with the laws of the disabled family member, which public employees are legally obliged to care for, the current disability health board report is documented, allowing the disabled family member to take care of the day-to-day care of the disabled family member, and the staff is exempted from duty outside of work hours and the night shift. Ali Öz Mesut Dedeoğlu Cemalettın Simsek Do you agree with the commission motion in general?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0128par0020	I'd like to invite members of the Commission for the full majority... We can't participate just because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0127par0022	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. There are three motions in Article 11 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11th of the Common Legislature. We would like to change the expression "distribution" to "all the disabled." Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayayan Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğüm Muslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the phrase "sexy" in the first article of Article 11 of the 11th article of the Law Proposal on the amendment to the 524th Amendment of the Law and Law, which is currently in session, I propose and propose that the declaration of "Sexibility" be added to the draft of the bill. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 11 of the Law Bill 524 be changed in the following manner. The first joke of Article 4 of Article 1739, dated 11-14/6/1973, has been changed as follows. "Education institutions are open to everyone, regardless of language, race, color, gender, disability, political thinking, philosophical belief, religion and sectism. No person, family, group or class can be granted privileges in education. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0129par0049	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0127par0050	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0130par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0127par0052	Balıkesir MP Ahmet Duran Bulut will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0131par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I want you to know that even though one of our ruling MPs has hurt a group of people who are the most important part of society, such as the disabled, the detection of the disabled did not begin with AKP authorities. At the point where their rights are protected, trained, every power has its labors, its sweats. Knowing that they were men, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the Republic of Turkey with that belief, adopted the Children's House in 1924, arranged the rights of the disabled there, allocated his own Horsemen's Mansion for disability treatment in İzmir. In the 1960s, Solomon Demirel, deceased Ecevit, in the 1976s, set up quotas for the work of disabled persons in the private sector. Until the 1980s, the disabled did not pay taxes in Turkey. In solving the problems of the disabled, the decision of a national policy in this sense must be made, not to resolve the problems with palliative measures, but to avoid populist expressions. Why do people become disabled? In health, are mothers being followed from pregnancy? What measures are taken regarding relatives' marriage? What measures do we take in education, such as a traffic accident, in the face of a great danger that all of us may be potentially disabled? Instead of solving a life-threatening problem such as terrorism, instead of surrendering, we need to all of us to understand the fact that this terror, which has chosen to be a way to go down to major cities, to threaten the government, to carry out its demands by threatening them, is going to come before us tomorrow, with the killings, with the deaths, with the injuries. It is important to ensure that they do not become outcasts in our schools on education of disabled persons -- the pictures shown by my current esteemed MP -- that local governments take measures so that they can live comfortably. We don't see many disabled people in our social life. However, we are a society with one of 10 disabled Turkey, one of 10 disabled people, with so many disabled people. They will not be noticed, they will not be excluded, they will not be included in the complex, they will be included in production, they will be accepted not as a limit of 3 per cent of the quota within public employees, they will surely be filled with lack of quotas, they will surely ensure that the institutions employing more than 50 workers in the private sector will be taken care of, they will surely be forced, they will be followed, followed, they will look more comfortable, at least in the future. The KPSS exams for the disabled are not announced to them, they are unable to apply on time. In order to address these shortcomings in the public and to resolve the problems of the disabled, the law says, "I hope there will be useful results," I submit the adoption of my motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0132par0064	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the phrase "sexy" in the first article of Article 11 of the 11th article of the Law Proposal on the amendment to the 524th Amendment of the Law and Law, which is currently in session, I propose and propose that the declaration of "Sexibility" be added to the draft of the bill. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0133par0071	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0132par0072	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0134par0073	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0135par0074	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0132par0075	I'm having it read. Turkey's educational system is a problem in itself. Among such a troubled educational system, people who are coded by the system as disadvantaged groups, women, children, disabled and have different sexual orientations are subject to discrimination. Those who are disadvantaged in all aspects of social life are becoming even more disadvantaged in teaching. Because the National Education syllabus is prepared by a manly language and Islamic criteria. In this framework, children are adopted by roles that dominate society. Even so, gay, lesbian, bisexual transgender children, who have different sexual identities, which can be considered the disadvantage of disadvantages, are ignored and replaced. Unfortunately, in society, LGBT individuals are considered either diseased or immoral, deviant individuals that need to be treated. This crippled mentality can be resolved primarily by significant changes to the educational system. This arrangement is generally viewed as a positive arrangement for disabled children, but it does not include children with different sexual orientations. In fact, radical changes must be made to the problem in the educational system. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 11th of the Common Legislature. We would like to change the expression "distribution" to "all the disabled." Engin Özkoç (Sacaria) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0136par0084	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0132par0085	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0137par0086	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0132par0087	Mr. Engin Özkoc will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0138par0090	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love. Dear friends, our motion is in fact a motion that should be adopted by the Parliament of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, an honorable motion for the disabled; why does it not agree, I don't understand? My dear friends, students who took the central joint examinations organised by the Ministry of National Education, our boiling students, our disabled students, our deaf students, our deaf students, our mentally disabled students, were tested this year on equal conditions, these students were asked the same questions. These students have been psychologically tested regardless of whether they are ready for this test, which led to the failure of our students. Thus, the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Education, has allowed our students, our disabled students, our mentally impaired students, to fall behind students who are not psychologically prepared in this regard, under equal conditions with other students. Is that weird when you look at 11 years of history of the Ministry of National Education and the educational system? Look, in 2010, more than 500 students did 120 rights on the KPSS test during the Ünal Peninsula in 2010. It's a scandal. The paper on a petty officer taking an open school exam in 2010 included questions and answers for the test, and the Ünal Peninsula was forced to resign. It's a scandal. In 2010, the medical exam suggested that four problems were wrong. A year and a half later, questions were acknowledged as wrong, as the case went on until the prosecution. It's a scandal. On March 29, 2011, Ali Demir was appointed head of the ESYM. Soon after, the announcements of passwords broke out at the Nationals of Higher Education. Ali Demir said there is no password first. He said there is a password later. He said there is a password later. If there is no copy, why is there a password? Without asking, the President and the Prime Minister agreed to the CSI's statement, and the prosecution gave no follow-up. It's a scandal. My dear friends, as we resolved this scandal, it turned out that four students who entered the YGS in Diyarbakır have lost their answer key. The series of scandals isn't over. The ALES exam, which was conducted in İzmir, was due to the lack of questions in the brochures, and the confusion in the pages, and a backup brochure was brought from Manisa, and the test began late. It's a scandal. Some of the successful candidates were husband and wife, relatives, and the four married couples who successfully won the exam were shown to have a close score, as well as a close one-on-one answer sheet. It's a scandal. Some candidates who have ranked have been found to have a 100 per cent correct answer in math questions without any processing, written judgment or defamation on the question booklets. It's a scandal. Now, dear friends, it turns out that none of these had anything to do with the AKP government and the Ministry of National Education. It turns out all of this was done by the parallel government, and all of this was actually done by conspiracies from abroad. In fact, the government was completely innocent of that. The government has nothing to do with the national education ministers and their organizations in charge of these scandals. We'll soon have a motion to investigate the Parliament for parallel government and other outside resources conspiring. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0139par0104	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0140par0105	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit04spe0139par0106	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0139par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of Sakarya MP Engin Özkoc and his friends had not been reached in sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 12 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of "protected workplace" of the 12th amendment in 524 rows, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "education, culture, art and health support units." Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Iron Steel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, be changed in the following manner. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz "MEDDE 12-26/5/1981's second joke in Article 2464's Article 44 of the City's IRS has been added to the term 'Green Centre' and its branches and camps, protected workplaces' to come after the declaration of student dorms." The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'd like to propose that the 12th Amendment of the current 524 rows of the Bill be changed in the following way. M. Akif Hamzacebi Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Haydar Akar Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Aydın Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğüm Müslim Sarı Celal Dinçer Article 12-26/5/1981 and the "committee budgeted" in the second joke of Article 44 of the Council's IRS Act 2464, in the form of "specially budgeted education homes and dorms" and in the form of "Kredi and dorms institution" (b) have been changed in the following way, in the form of "Students' dorms and websites, which have been granted tax exemption from the Council of Ministers and in the following way. "b) The hospital, preventorium, sanitarium, dispensary and so on, and the Council of Ministers will build student homes, nursing homes, and school buildings for public benefit. Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion? We can't participate. Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0141par0036	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0142par0037	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0139par0038	Mr. Celal Dinçer of Istanbul will talk about the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0143par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 12 of Bill 524. I salute your high council. In this bill, perhaps one of the most beautiful items to be applauded is to be granted immunity to protected businesses. I thank all the workers, bureaucrats, commissioners and respected lawmakers who've done their job. It was a bill that Turkey longed for for for years, waiting for. In this bill, perhaps one of the most admirable items, I'd like to thank you again. These valuable employers who will provide a protected workplace, especially in protected workplaces, are exempt from environmental cleaning tax, which we have discussed with Article 12 and the disabled. Of course, it's also important that it's exempt from construction licenses, construction taxes. With our proposal for amendments to the 12th amendment in this bill, we propose that it be changed not only to protected businesses, but especially to the special budget of municipal revenues Act 2464. In addition, the Credit Homes Institution must be exempted from the environmental cleaning tax -- which is already in this proposal -- from public benefit associations, tax exemptions by the Council of Ministers -- and from housing and protected businesses. Our proposal requires this exemption, which provides that immunity. In addition, the second joke of our proposal is also added to businesses that are protected from construction duties, especially in Article 264 of the City's Incomes Act, which are exempt from building taxes, especially from hospitals, preventoriums, sanitariums, dispensarys and so on, and so forth, and we recommend that the institutions that are tax-exempted by the Council of Ministers should be exempted from construction tax-free associations for public benefit, pension homes and school buildings, especially those that the foundations will build and school buildings. Dear friends, you know, public buildings, universities, college buildings, dorms, places of worship, places of employment, tax exemption, or rather, jobs that have been granted environmental cleaning tax exemptions. Now, I'd like to talk to you about a few more problems with the disabled outside of this proposal. Aids to the disabled are difficult and difficult to report on the fees, Mr. Secretary, and you must come up with a solution. The costs of disabled materials have been met, and they need to be resolved. There are problems when disabled people come to school, and they need solutions. The staff that is still reserved for the disabled cannot be filled, so they must be resolved. As the Republican People's Party, we've proposed, in particular, 35 laws at this time, for the disabled, we've submitted nearly 200 questions, we've submitted a proposal for close to 19 degrees of research, but you haven't considered any of them. We're here to address all our disabled brothers: we're going to bring permanent and radical solutions in the rule of the Republican People's Party, and we're going to make sure that all obstacles are eliminated with realistic regulations. Again, I pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0144par0051	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0053	Mr. President, sir, we need to discuss...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0144par0054	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0055	Now, this motion has been processed here, but this motion envisions a change in two articles. So, in fact, the motion that envisions the change of two articles in one clause should not be processed by the presidency. It changes the 44th article (2), and changes the 2nd article. The additive 2 is supposed to be the additive, and I don't know how to process it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0144par0056	Let's see, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0057	Sir, this has just been voted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0144par0058	It wasn't accepted, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0059	It wasn't accepted, but...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0144par0060	As a result, it was not accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0061	The presidency is reviewing the motions on this. When we have proposals for this, it cannot be processed. There are things that are said. So, I want to express it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0146par0062	He's got the Presidential Court in place because it's a good motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0145par0063	I understand, it's a good motion, but I'm afraid the fingers didn't hold up well, sir, to a good motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0064	You will tell those who lift the finger, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0148par0065	Mr. President, Mr. Vural is right, the Presidential Court needs to be a little more careful.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0066	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, be changed in the following manner. Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends "MEDDE 12-26/5/1981's second joke in Article 2464's Article 44 of the City's IRS has been added to the term 'Green Centre' and its branches and camps, protected workplaces' to come after the declaration of student dorms." Mr. Ali Oz will be speaking on the motion. He'll talk, but before he does, let's ask a commission. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0149par0073	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0074	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0150par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0076	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0151par0077	Mr. President, you're tired, you're exhausted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0078	You're tired.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0152par0079	Why can't they join? They don't agree, or are they coerced, or can't agree?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0153par0080	He can't agree, he can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0147par0081	I don't know, ask the Commission and the government. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0154par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 12 of Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. Of course, as the Republican People's Party official who spoke before me said, in the bag bill, perhaps we should consider it one of the important items that we've all been waiting for for for a long time, that we'll all like, even if we see that it's missing. But here, of course, again, what is disability, what is called disabled, how to distinguish it from other disabled people; I believe that parliament must quickly separate it and make the definitions correct. While we're talking about this, I think that one of the real problems with the disabled is that the definition of "blockel" is seriously needed to be reconsidered. In our laws, according to our assessments, it is obvious that we need to make it clear which group, which group, in fact, has a degree of apology, which is less than 40 per cent in any country of Europe, and how to classify people who are under a certain degree. That is one of the most important problems of the disabled, especially in the public sector and in the private sector, is one of our main shortcomings, when it has to be put to work in certain proportions, when the disabled are not able to be placed in the examinations with the disabled, when the disabled are not available after these methods, or when the disabled are not available in their time. A person with an apology degree of less than 40 per cent in describing disabled persons should know that if you send him to a normal, healthy workplace, if he has a 30-percent obstacle there, you are in the disabled class. We all need to know that he is in serious trouble at the point of finding a job. In our talks with the Minister of Family and Social Policy before this, we also had suggestions at the point of fixing it. Indeed, if you look at the suggestions that opposition parties for disabled persons have made to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in particular -- which is out of law and decision -- you will find that there are several amendment proposals, amendments, law proposals and drafts. In fact, the fact that this Parliament remembers the disabled at a certain time and only makes partial improvements at the time is not the answer to the problems they expected. Therefore, we believe that all legislations for the disabled should be examined with absolute precision by the people in the Commission, who are in charge of these issues as information, at the point of law enforcement of a comprehensive bill -- especially the secondary commissions in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and even the main Commission outside the Plan and Budget Commission on this issue -- in depth. In addition to this bill, we all know the protected workplaces -- protected workplaces -- especially at this point on these employers, who have opened for the employment of the disabled and who the government can't really do -- I'd like to express our gratitude to those who provide the work environment for them. However, I find it very difficult to understand why the Greenay General Centre and its branches in our country, which is particularly concerned with the health of the community, whose number is not too large in Turkey, and most of which are not their own buildings, are rent-in apartments, and who are fighting for health in our country, are being deprived of this tax exemption, and I respectfully salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0155par0090	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of "protected workplace" of the 12th amendment in 524 rows, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of "education, culture, art and health support units." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0156par0097	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0155par0098	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0157par0099	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0158par0100	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0155par0101	I'm reading the reason: The law is to adjust to its purpose. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 13th draft of the current bill, 524 rows. We propose and provide that the total twenty-five of the terms in the article be changed into twenty-five. İdris Bauken Adil Zozani Pervin Buldan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th of the Common Legislature. We propose that the total expression in the article be changed to the total of 15. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayayan Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğüm Muslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz MADDE 13-5/4/1983 and the Foundation of Information Technologies and Communication was added to the rule entitled "Twelfth in total 20" in the 14th article of Article 8 of the Law Relational Law, which is referred to as "a total 20" and added to the list (1). PRODUCTION: INTERVIEW OF INTERVIEWS AND INTERVIEWS SECNAV 15 Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0159par0136	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0155par0137	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0160par0138	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0155par0139	Mr. Reshad, our slap MP, will speak correctly. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0161par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 13 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. With this clause, the Information Technologies and Communications Association are under contract. We don't really have anything to say about this, of course, but I'd like to focus on this: information technologies and communication is the most important subject of the Internet. From here, I would like to say that addiction is at the top of our country's most important issues in the coming period. In fact, I think this addiction issue is leading to the most important problems in the world outside our country. Of course, when it comes to addiction, it is important not only to assess it as substance abuse, smoking, alcohol, drug addiction. I think the most important addict in all of this is an Internet addiction. See, in the past period of Internet addiction, the Turkish National Assembly has established a research commission for this in the past year. And after a long study of the research commission -- it was actually very well done at the time -- a very good report was made. A very comprehensive, broad, and at the end of the day, a very valuable report has been presented, which has passed nearly a thousand pages. However, some of the issues shown in that report, unfortunately, the bag is currently not part of the law. Internet addiction is very important to our children, to our people. Look, we're calling it "kids" right now. We don't have kids who don't use the Internet or anything. When children pass from schools to their homes -- about as much as statistics have shown -- the Internet is taking over, and about 60 percent of these people and our children are entering Internet games. When it's called online games, it's where violent games, sexual games, a number of games that prevent him from studying. Plus, the kid's at school -- especially with computers being distributed -- is in front of the computer, and when he goes home, he's in front of the computer again, and there's a health problem here, members of the law. Here, in this environment, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has a very important task to do. Not only in certain matters, but in the approach of families to their children, at least in the development of safe use of the Internet, or in increasing the activities of our children at various points, the ministry is in a very serious position. See, most of the Internet games children play are foreign-based. Foreign-based games also bring a number of bad habits to our children in very different dimensions. In that sense, our Ministry of Youth and Sports, our Ministry of Family, our Ministry of National Education, has been given serious but serious tasks. As far as we're concerned, we can't say that these were exactly done. So right now, we can't say that these ministries are too close to our children in this way, because they're addicted to the Internet or other things. Here's the thing: recently divorce rates have also been increasing, in relation to Internet addiction. See, about 1 million 43,97 couples have been divorced in our country in the last ten years -- in this statistical information. 120 in 2011. 117 is also 123,000 divorces in 2012. The highest divorce rate is in Izmir Province. I mean, here we are, living in a time period where there are no neighbourly relationships left in families, where the child and parents' communications are completely broken. Here, this is the very important task that falls on our newly appointed Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the newly appointed family. So it's all about health, it's all about family, it's all about the child being raised so well. This is health in upbringing, of course, at the beginning, but in the child's preparation for society, it's at every point. Look, we have street kids problems in our country right now. When you look at street children's problems, you see street children drifting very quickly towards various points. Here, he says it's a sign of how important communication, family communication, family home is, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0162par0152	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0163par0156	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0162par0157	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request. Congressmans, I'm going to make a statement: Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Eyidodan, Mr. Çam, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Silver, Mr. Celebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Bayraktutan, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Ork. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th of the Common Legislature. We propose that the total expression in the article be changed to the total of 15. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Does the presidential commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0164par0174	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0162par0175	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0165par0176	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0162par0177	Mr. Muharrem Light, asking for a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0166par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. I'm going to give a speech on Article 13. We also bring up changes to the Information Technologies and Communications Agency. Of course, information technologies have been particularly interesting to you lately. Therefore, despite all objections, you have made new studies. Of course, when you're making new laws, especially in a bag of laws like this, everything you fill in, you bring in things that are good with a few substances, and you bring in things that are useful to you. And while you're doing that, you're always doing a victimic literature. You were yesterday's victims, but unfortunately you were today's proudest. You're playing the tyrants, even though we don't have the tongue to say it, with the laws you made today when you showed yesterday that you were underdogs. When you say you were yesterday's mujahideen, you and the contractors are arm in arm today. Yesterday, blood brother, you were offended today with the people you were close to. You have given names to your brothers, such as the Chete, the Kümpas, the Hashishis, the Treacherous, the Traitors. Even though you've been in power alone for 12 years, and slowly silenced all the opposition, other than that, at the risk of destroying the institutions, you've come this way now arm in arm with the people you've been hostile to. Now, you've been trying to make changes in the Constitution recently, but you're also trying to make changes in the science and technology law to block the way you've been trying to make changes with the law, especially with the HSYK Law. We are now seeing what pressure is applied in doing so. When we open a lot of websites, we can't see the images, we can't get information about them. And after that law is passed, the laws on science and technology -- unfortunately, we won't be able to reach any of them. Now, of course, as I said about all the institutions of the state -- the police, the judiciary, the educational institutions, the YKK, the Diyaneti, the military, the Information Technologies Foundation, and all the institutions you can think of, you've somehow taken over all of them, not only that, but you've kept putting new laws in these bags day and night to put it into effect. What we've seen in economics in 12 years is that you've only made progress in economic areas. You've made a great deal of progress, especially in the area of TOKI. When we look at other issues, we talk about IT technology, we can't see anything based on production here. You're trying to show that we're getting somewhere by making it look like we're exporting all the latest cell phones, the latest computers, or the stuff you're bringing in here, and what you're bringing in is the same stuff you're importing, but unfortunately, it's not happening. Here, especially when our MPs come out, they keep saying: "Don't play with the fate of this country, don't cloud the future of this country, don't play with this country for your own benefit, don't play with it for your own benefit. You always go on and on without listening to any of this. They've told me over and over again that you've made 164 changes in the Public Contraction Act, and you're making changes again. When you bring in every law, you make a change in the Public Contraction Act in the sense of how to give and who to benefit from it. We've told you over and over again that you've completely eliminated the court, but you've never accepted it. By changing the Law of the Court, we could never find out what was going on. In particular, you've already silenced those who are opposed to you, especially in the press -- that's the most important thing -- you've already silenced those who are opposed to you, and there are three or five of those who have already reached you, but you've completely pressured others with tax fines and other methods, but in doing so, the way you're screaming today, the way you're screaming, the institutions that you've turned, the institutions that you've made, the institutions that you're going to do with, and the things you're doing with them, they're going to hurt you again tomorrow. So, I think, when we make these laws, listen to the opposition, listen to the opposition, because the opposition likes this country more than you do, and he thinks more about the future of this country. Therefore, if you accept the opposition's motions, if you vote yes for once, everyone will be pleased and happy. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0189	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 13th draft of the current bill, 524 rows. We propose and provide that the total twenty-five of the terms in the article be changed into twenty-five. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0168par0196	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0197	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0169par0198	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0199	I'm having it read. The proposed change has increased the number of staff members to be appointed as advisers in the presidency. The presidency does not require consulting personnel from twenty-five people. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 14 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the current bill. Article 14. We would like to change the statement created by the αil administration in his paragraph to the statement established in the districts and districts of the province. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab İzzet Cetin Hasan Ören Muharrem Illum Aydın Agha Ayyadın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the 524 rows of the agreed-upon draft law shall be replaced as follows by Article 6 (6) and subverts (13). Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz "Six. ▪ Children's Support Centres (Security Centres) (Security to crime, crime or social hazards on the street) finds that children who need psycho-social support from children whose rights have been decided to care or protection, while providing temporary care and care and protection until these needs are met, during this period the rehabilitation efforts of family, close environment and community relations have been carried out; children's psycho-social status, victimization, forced to commit crimes, crime, and gender. "13. ▪ Home Type Social Services Units (Second Social Services Units) where housing services are provided to people who are in need of child, woman, man, disabled and elderly and in need of housing," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In other jokes, I propose and propose that the statement of "Home" be removed from the draft text. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Does the Commission agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0170par0230	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0231	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0171par0232	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0233	I'm reading the reason: Every arrangement for women, children, disabled and elderly people who know as disadvantaged groups in society is usually arranged to spend more time in and out of the house. Again, tradition is not broken in this arrangement. In particular, the disabled are pushed out of social life, cut off contact with the outside world, providing domestic social services. Such arrangements as social services are usually made for the elderly and disabled as "Home care services." Women are employed in this care service. Although limited jobs are provided for women, this is usually in-house, unsecured, temporary. That's what keeps women trapped in the house outside of their social life. Children's insides are intended to avoid the negatives of children in household-type social services, which will be held under the name "Children's Support Centers, Children's Homes Site." Such arrangements are actually one of the projects of children who are considered to be a danger to the state rather than to protect them from the negativity of life. It's a common example of what children who have been coded "Strike Boys" have been doing under the name "Houses of Love" in the past. Taking these children from their families was also used as punishment for their families. As children throwing stones, it is public knowledge of what practices children have been exposed to in the Posant prison. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 14 of the 524 rows of the agreed-upon draft law shall be replaced as follows by Article 6 (6) and subverts (13). Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends "Six. "National Support Centres"; Child Support Centres; Rehab studies in order to organise family, close environment and community relations; the child's psycho-social status, victimization, victimization, age and gender status; the child's social services, which have been temporarily established, or isolated, until these needs have been met, have been provided for temporary care and protection; the child's mental-social state; the child's rights; the child's injury, the victimization, the crime, the age and gender state. "13. 'Home Type Social Services Units'; housing housing units provided for people in need of child, woman, man, disabled and elderly persons, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0172par0245	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0246	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0173par0247	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0167par0248	Mr. Reşat will speak correctly on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0174par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on Article 14 of Law Bill 524 that we are discussing. I salute the High Council. Our motion is explicitly stated that child rehabilitation services for children will be provided at child support centres, and children are being divided into groups at child support centres, while their psychosocial status is also required to be taken into consideration; we aim to do so. Secondly, home-type social services will provide boarding services to children, women, disabled and elderly people in need of care or housing. Although violence against women has increased in recent years, violence against men from time to time is also reflected in public. Although the law clearly states that women will benefit from home-type social services, it is not clear that violent men can benefit from their spouses. Our proposal also aims for men to benefit from home-type social services. After all, it's social work. And we think the House will decide that, hopefully. Respected MPs, it's always about the family. I mean, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy is getting very important assignments. Of course, I'd like to repeat once again that you have a very serious problem in our country, especially with addiction, as we said earlier in the matter of the law. See, in recent survey research, especially 48.2% of students say that there is someone in their family who smokes tobacco, so almost 50% of families face smoking. In addition, 26.7% of the students say they have tried cigarettes, cigars, bongs, and so on. Again, for the first time in students, the age of testing tobacco products -- according to some researchers, 12 -- some say 13 -- is almost under the age of elementary school. Of course, 19.9% of the girls and 33.2% of the men say they have tried tobacco and products. Another 15.2% of students have been identified as drinking alcohol in their family. Again, 19.4% of our students say they've tried alcoholic beverages once. We can see that it's up 14.1 percent in girls and up to 22.6 in boys. Also, of course, when polls conducted in 32 counties are compared to the ESPAD projects in Europe during the same period, we see very interesting results. Now, what I want to say here is that children, of course, families need to be dominated, and our children need to be supported in schools, but it's interesting that, recently, even though we've been bringing up more than five or six years from here, the ESPAD Project, the European alcohol and other drugs' school project in Europe, is also being implemented in our country. In our country, how many students smoke in our schools, how many students drink alcohol, how many students smoke marijuana, and how many studies about this need to be revealed. But interestingly, for five or six years, the ESPAD has been refusing to allow the National Education Ministry to do these surveys. There's no way to figure that out. There is no telling or understanding that our children are not allowed to do so, while studies are being carried out throughout the world, while our children are facing very serious problems about it. We bring it up from time to time with questions, we try to bring it up with research proposals, but we never convinced the Ministry of National Education that way. However, in the coming time period, it is everyone's duty to fight the plague of the age of substance abuse. Of course, family comes in, schools come in, the environment comes in. When it's looked at -- it's been researched -- about 45 percent of the people who started drugs started with friends, and about 20 percent of the others -- it's interesting again -- you know, once you try it, nothing happens. In this case, we see that they're infected with this infectious disease. So, in the end, it's true that as the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, as the Ministry of National Education, as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, above all things, we have to face a number of projects that guide our children, their families, they lead them in a different way. What happens if you don't do that? We're losing the family, we're losing the kid, we're losing the community, we're increasing the crime rate. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0175par0260	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the current bill. Article 14. We would like to change the statement created by the αil administration in his paragraph to the statement established in the districts and districts of the province. Sena Kaleli (Bursa) and her friends Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0176par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0175par0268	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0177par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0175par0270	Mr. Sena Kaleli on the motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0178par0272	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on the 14th Article of the negotiating bag arrangement 524. As I begin, I salute the General Assembly. Mr. Ayþenur, I wish you the best of the Ministry of Islam. Dear lawmakers, regulations concerning the 14th article of the bill are undoubtedly well-intentioned approaches to social protection. The Republican People's Party, human, child, elderly, disabled, woman, LGBT has always been and will always be there for positive arrangements for the rights of individuals, but it is also true that regulations remain on paper. The Republican People's Party of Women and Children's Rights Watch and Review Commission has shown that we have been to prisons, shelters, foster homes where we have been, unfortunately, problems continue. We tried to be their voices with motions we didn't get answers from. Children who live in foster homes are expelled from their homes or abandoned to their fates after the age of 18. Despite the current regulations, the rights to be put to work still remain separate from those who were not involved with the children involved in the crime. There are difficulties with the decision to make and remove the protection board, which can be removed by the signature of one person. There are still 700-800 girls who have been denied protection, abandoned at the mercy of the street, unable to benefit from the job. There is no follow-up on the protection of children who have been removed from their homes or released since they were 18 years old, and no steps are taken in their rehabilitation. A dramatic example of this is happening in Ankara, the capital. Mr. Secretary, since you're new, my names may seem strange to you, but your Deputy Minister and bureaucrats understand what I mean if they haven't been changed. In D.C., there's nothing convincing about the fact that a ministry that can't afford to treat these kids, that can't find a place to stay, that looks like it's in fancy, ambitious arrangements. While those who spent their childhood in their homes could not be put to work, the short-term employment of those who stayed has become a common abuse. Law enforcement is not followed, nor is any sanction applied to institutions that do not submit exams. Children who leave the foster home after 18 years of age are paid for one year. There are allegations that their sentence has not been carried out. The practice of foster care, which should be carried out mainly, has unfortunately been transformed into commercialization of interest and love in our country. Dear lawmakers, a change in the 14th article is related to the harmony of the disabled in life. But it has been postponed by the government for six months for the disabled to participate in active life and for the implementation of transport arrangements. It's unfortunate that the manufacturing of vehicles and services that are compatible with the disabled were not planned. "This is neither fast nor sauerkraut." It makes me wonder. In terms of the integrity of the administration, other institutions, such as the Treasury, Treasury, and the SGK, must adopt your ministry's stance on what the disabled will receive. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, which constantly supervises the NGOs and charities working for the public's benefit, is somehow ignoring TÜRGEV. Your ministry, like the government, faces a serious intimacy test. I salute everyone with these thoughts.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0179par0285	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0180par0288	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0179par0289	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a roll call. Let's do our roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Kören, Mr. İçen, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Çam, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Güçük, Mr. Sesame, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kokturk, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özkan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 15 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the current bill. In this article, we would like to have the expression changed in the form of all social services units of the type of household. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Hasan Ören Vahab chooses İzzet Çetin Aydın Agha Ayadın Muharrem Light Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 15 of the Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Emin Çınar Mehmet Günal Pervin Buldan Adil Zozani İdris Bauken Does the Commission participate in the motions?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0181par0324	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0179par0325	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0182par0326	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0179par0327	Mr. Rusar Demirel will speak on the motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0183par0330	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of my party group. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy usually has these bag laws, and those bags are always taken care of at night. It's that night again. And the Department of Labor has a policy like that, that at night there are interesting laws being made. Of course, there's a difference between making a law and being an ointment in trouble. I took something that was passed in a law, put it on this side, and I raised the number of laws, what these confusions were created for, you have to read it well, that's 125 plus 1 law. Yesterday, I already made some remarks to Mr. Secretary to draw some attention to my party group. I hope he's had his share of it, but it's still a very unnecessary clause, and they've completed it for 125, so they don't get confused. Of course, instead of writing them separately, we looked at how much of the problems we have been given are ointments. 125, 130, you can extract as many substances as you want. Well, it's not much of an ointment. If you want to change the name of the institutions, you can make a law out of each one of them, but as long as you're short-staffed, your ministry's ability to do social services is very limited. For example, sociologists want to hear from you because your ministry doesn't have enough placement for the opening staff. Or we worked at the welfare foundation and reduced the number of people in this country to less than $4. They want to know why you haven't dealt with the staff problems of your fellow social welfare workers, who are your biggest helpers. If your colleagues are not qualified and well-versed, you can open as many institutions as you want, you can change the name of these institutions, you can take regulations about certain laws, you can put them in bags, but you can't get results, you can't get results. Sociologists and social workers want to hear from you. Besides, I said this four-dollar thing about poverty in the country to make it a reference. We'd like to make another note on behalf of our party group, that everyone who has a new, modern income below the average of the country's national income is considered poor. And this poverty is growing so much that in 2013, 1,080 businesses in Eskişehir have either closed down or changed hands. These people have fallen into poverty, and all these people are in need. If you don't take some precautions about this... there's a fashion saying in the new ones, where you used to say, "How are you?" I said, "How are you?" They said, "How are you?" It must be your first-degree responsibility as Minister to make your situation better than home. In the process of fulfilling this responsibility, you must immediately employ qualified personnel who represent you in the field, in the country, and who must work to deliver the needs of this country to those in need, so that help can reach the needy in the right time and in the right ways. Otherwise, there's still a lot of help in lines like in African countries, where there's people crushing each other. It hurts when we see it on TV. Do we want to be like that? No. Well, that's the most important thing in social policy practice, empathy. When you can't empathize, you can't see the handicaps in the application of social policies, you can't improve the policy in those handicaps. If you empathize, you can work easier if you replace these people with those in need. If you show a little more interest in who the workers should be who will provide the need for it, they will have a staff of workers at the welfare foundation, and unemployed sociologists will have jobs. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0184par0338	Thank you. I'm running the alibi on the other motion. The change in the arrangement mentioned above allows people working in the "house type social services units" to be excluded from the work code. It's the fourth law of the business law. The clause lists exceptions. Therefore, the fact that employees are excluded from this law legitimizes violations against the rights of employees that may occur in the future. The reason for the matter is that the staff must work 24 hours without interruption to improve the children's confidence. As you can see from the reason offered, there is an intention to seize the entire lives of the personnel employed in these units, and in parallel with that, the employees of these institutions are excluded from the labour code. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 15 of the current bill. In this article, we would like to have the expression changed in the form of all social services units of the type of household. Muharrem Light (Erzincan) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0185par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0184par0349	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0186par0350	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0184par0351	Erzincan MP Muharrem Illum. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0187par0354	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, a new bag of laws, a law made to meet needs in your own way. A lot of matter may interest the community, it will attract his attention, it will benefit him, but other substances are still embedded in it. When we look at the 15th article, some of the things you want to do in Article 14 have been defined, and the 15th article has a clause meaning that home-type social services units have been removed from the guarantee of the Employment Law. So it seems that home-type service units will not have the necessary social security. Of course, when we look at the entire law, again the things that are full of traps, the new public auction, the materials related to privatisation of highways and bridges, the articles on how to privatise the Anadolu Agency, how to give them to someone. Of course, what we really need to focus on here is how much is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy doing in this bag under the Ministry of Family and Social Policy? What we see is that even though the Ministry tells us how much it does its job, we understand what happens when we look at the fate of Destiny. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary, the children's weddings are very innocent. After saying something like that, we don't really have much to say. Now, the simple things that I'm going to say here are going to get some reactions, some parts are going to get angry, but I want to tell Mr. Secretary that when you say this is the child bride, unfortunately we're formalizing pedophilia, and we accept that. We can't possibly accept such a thing. These people, these kids, they get married with certain pressures, certain things, and eventually they end up getting killed. When we look at what the Minister said, we see no work being done to investigate the facts under which he said it was too innocent. ▪ The child's bride is not enough to save the situation, but we actually legitimize it. What we need to do here is we need to take precautions against those people, regardless of what it takes, no matter what it costs, no matter what it takes. In this country, when violence has increased by 1,400 percent of women's murders, prostitution has increased by 400 percent, we need to take the risk now, and we absolutely must not accept it, we need to do the necessary challenge. Of course, when we came here with 4+4+4, we especially opened the way for the children's brides -- we called them children's brides -- we brought them with our own hands. Did this 4+4 bring this, as you call it, as well? You put pressure on yourself here. We've all seen and experienced what you've done in the commissions. In this matter, Mr. Secretary, we really need to take precautions. Of course, there are social services in the cities, certain units are set up, they serve here. Madam Secretary, I'm afraid your social services departments aren't doing their real job, their real job. There, as you call it social services, social welfare is distributed, given, coal -- came here today, you're angry -- all of which are distributed by the MP of that province or by your president in that province. The truth is distributed to people who don't need it, not people who need it. You're being tested for income, because one field has been planted, you've got a field for the unplanted field. You've been called the tractor that he sold years ago; he didn't give it back, he couldn't give it back, he couldn't go out of the village, you've got a tractor. When they're being told they're being cut off, I'm sorry to say so -- and I'm telling you on and on and on -- and on and on and on and on and on -- and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0188par0361	You're not telling the truth, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0187par0362	Therefore, social services must first be organized by the municipal authorities. In addition, you hire people especially to work for many of your institutions. Find out how these people were taken, how they were laid off, why they were laid off, how qualified the managers were; come down there without any merit, just to see how they were brought to certain union members, certain opinions, etc., and how they did things in those cities. For example, I suggest you look into Bilecik. I don't want to tell you the science, there's a lot of information, but look into Bilecik. See what's going on there, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0189par0366	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit05spe0190par0367	Thank you. I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0190par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Erzincan MP Muharrem Iş and his friends' motion was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 16 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The article 3 of the 16th article of the law, which is in 524 rows, is included after the declaration of the 16th amendment, and we propose and demand the addition of the declaration of the number. Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Iron Steel Congressmans, I'd like a silence first, please! Congressmans, if you will remain silent, I will have the motions read. Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Haydar Akar Aydın Ağan Ayayan Ayadın Kadir Gökmen Öğur Öğüm Muslim Sarı Veli Agha Musa Pine Celal Dinçer Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Emin Çınar Mehmet Günal Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0191par0036	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0190par0037	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0192par0038	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0190par0039	Eskişehir MP Rusar Demirel will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0193par0042	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my party group for the 16th Amendment. Our motive in this article has just been read, and it does not fall in line with the essence and budget discipline of public financial management reform. The Minister of Finance was just here, and I think he would have said the same thing if he was actually asked. Because, you know, one of the things you say most about your power is that we're not finished, orphans. And even though there was once a law, you were talking a lot about orphans, and now, as of December 17th, we're talking about shoes, boxes, and Mahdum law. But it's not true, of course, to cover up this kind of money for this country, to eliminate the return capital costs, and that sort of thing, sometimes it's business people who talk about economics. When they say it, you're a traitor. It happens, but nothing happens when you take some money and transfer it there. Besides, you still have a discrepancy about this latest interest increase. When I've made a promise for a few years, I've always said we'd like you to face the facts of your government, to see your contradictions. For example, yesterday, on the way to Iran, the Prime Minister says: "I am opposed to increased interest. The Central Bank is an independent institution, but I'm opposed to the interest increase. The Finance Minister says today that because I'm asked my opinion on this, it's an independent institution, but everyone is doing the right thing for Turkey. I believe that investor concerns have been significantly satisfied with this interest increase. In the eyes of the Prime Minister, I think the Finance Minister has now become a traitor, but in the name of these return capital revenues, somehow pardoning the accounts, closing the accounts, in the name of the unbridled orphans, it is not something that will make you a lot of amends in people's conscience, and I think you will be accused of something else. So, despite the fact that we'd like to see the legal regulations of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which have not been met in this bag of laws, reciprocally drawn by our party group, be drawn to a real place, we don't agree with every motion. You say, "No, we don't agree." However, I suppose if you sat on this side of the House and not that side of the House, you might think a little bit more calmly and say, "Why are we really doing this?" I said it yesterday, and I'll say it again: If you calm down now and stop and look at what's happening in the country, you'll agree with what we're saying. For example, since the Minister has a background in the Ministry of Culture, I'd like to point out one thing. You know, it's about Turkey's promotion, it's popular. A Hollywood star has been found again, and she's a star, and you're thinking of introducing her to Turkey. Minister, the Ministry of Culture will know from the past that a popular star is not introduced in the modern world. There was a matter of Turkish Airlines Kevin Costner earlier, which caused some trouble at your party, I think you'll remember. In modern times, cultural investments are being made to promote countries. For example, recently, there is a book published a few months ago, one third of Dan Brown's book "Hell" was divided into İstanbul. In modern culture promotion campaigns, writers are written books or filmed in that city. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you on behalf of my party group what you're thinking about, about this Julianne Moore, about the popular culture perception of Turkey being introduced in this way through a figure of women, about the use of her body -- while she is the Minister of Family and Social Policy: how rational does it sound to you to introduce Turkey through the body of such women? As Minister of the Family, the world now knows your opinion on children's brides, not just Turkey, because you've moved on to history, but we hope you don't show the same sensitivity because it was a negative sensitivity. I'm on behalf of my party group... we'd like to find an answer to this question, and we'd like to hear your answer: as a woman, how do you feel about giving a Hollywood star a handful of money at the launch of Turkey and introducing Turkey on such a figure as if we were introducing it in the 19th century? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0194par0051	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to answer?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0195par0053	Yes, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0194par0054	Here's to the stand. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0195par0059	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I believe these children's brides must now end the innocent story of children's marriages. I've been listening patiently for two days, and he claims I've said something like that, that I've claimed that children's brides are innocent. That's a lie, I reject that sentence. A sentence like that never came out of my mouth. In a large interview, I used the expression "kid brides" (at an age) and used the expression "married" in another sentence, but in separate sentences.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0196par0061	So you used it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0195par0062	Three or four days after the interview was published, a reporter put these two statements together, put them on the front page, published it like this. A number of our friends, especially Ms. Rusar, fell into this trap, and they started talking about it as if I had made such a statement. I'm asking you, please, read the entire text, read the entire text published on the first day of my interview. What I'm saying is that children's marriage is a crime according to the laws of the Republic of Turkey, and there is a criminal action. In another sentence, many of the mothers who married their children early themselves are not aware that what they did was a crime because they got married early, and they think it's an innocent tradition. That's what I'm saying. The two of them are being merged, and children's marriages are being created as if I said innocently. Ms. Rusar, there's also a clause in the law you're talking about about about taking 2.050 sociologists, psychologists, PDR. Before you claim that I don't read the law or understand it, please, read it yourself, understand it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0197par0066	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0067	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0197par0068	Yes, Mr. Demirel, what is your request?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0069	I think he said three times that I was trapped, that I didn't read, that I didn't understand, that I wanted to answer.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0197par0070	I'm sorry, what?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0071	They have statements that I'm trapped, that I don't read, that I don't understand.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0199par0072	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0073	Follow the transcripts, you said he fell into the same trap.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0200par0074	Here, I'll give you my word for two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0076	Mr. President, thank you for giving me the floor. I'm not the one who's being set up, but the fact that you haven't responded to this so far has made a very meaningful, time-consuming rebuttal. I say so because the timing is so important to you. In fact, it's been over a month since I've touched on it, and it's been brought up here for two days, so I'm guessing your nervous system hasn't lifted it. You're saying we're trapped in a timely fashion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0200par0079	Mr. Demirel, please don't bother with the person.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0080	We are, of course, saying, "Hopefully, we are the ones who are trapped, because I only wish for the Turkish nation that a minister representing the country, especially a minister during the reigning period, did not say such a thing." But it's not us who's being set up, it's your own word.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0201par0082	Apologize.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0200par0083	Congressmans, do not interfere, please.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0084	You don't have a statement to any newspaper, and so far, you don't have a statement to any press agency. If you don't like the sound of that saying so much, just say, "Hey, it slipped out, okay, we're human, we're wrong, we're wrong, we're one." [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Friends, come in, ask for promises, speak for them. Second of all, I read all that law...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0202par0088	Apologize to the Minister.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0198par0089	... And as far as I'm concerned, I've been reading for years, but there's one thing: how many people do you predict, sociologists on the street who are out of work are different. Sociologists are either employed by the Ministry of Justice or by you, but you are still in a government that has opened a department for sociology in the OSYM, yet you have not created the potential to employ all the unemployed sociologists on the street, and yet has increased the job of a degree unemployment in the country in order for them to remain unemployed. Well, all this shows is that you're really in a fetal state. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0203par0092	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0204par0093	That's a little harsh, but...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0205par0094	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0206par0095	Mr. Secretary, do you want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0205par0096	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0206par0097	Then I'll call you to the stand. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0205par0101	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm very calm, very nervous, I've been like this all your life.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0207par0103	He's out of balance, Minister.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0206par0104	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0205par0105	Sir, he called children's marriages innocent. The day after the headline was made, I appeared on a television show and stated that I had never done such a thing, that I did not use such a sentence. The next day, I called some reporter friends and made them see what I was saying to them, and I made it clear to them that this was not a phrase that came out of my mouth. Some time after that, I invited 63 representatives of women's organizations from 15 cities, inviting them to discuss the error of their ways with the Ministry. So they made a statement to the press, saying that the minister didn't say so. I'm supplying, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0206par0108	Thank you. [[Continue]] On behalf of the other motion, Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP, please.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0208par0116	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, before this, I spoke of the Malatians' will, their cry, from this stand. Once again, unfortunately, when the problem was not resolved, it was necessary to repeat it. The left-winger of the Malatians, the officer, the shopkeeper, the farmer, the van driver said: "Don't shut down the State Hospital under the name of the State Hospital, which was founded six years ago with our own money, built with our own money; our grandparents, our mothers, our fathers, and our fathers. Do not play with our health," they said. People living in Fırat, Yıldıztepe, Çüşnük and Mehmet Buyuruk Street and Kale, Doğanyol, Pöturge, Battalgazi, don't kill us. Sometimes we come here on foot, sometimes with a filler. They said if this place is shut down, we can't go to the other hospital. This area, the most active part of Malatya, has now become a place where no one greets, which is the most moving region of Malatya. The closure of the hospital is not just the closure of the hospital. As this hospital closes, it is known that the stockbrokers, convenience stores, pharmacists, bakers, diners, all the small tradesmen, who you don't know, are going to be locking themselves in the doors of the small tradesmen you've never supported, so they're going to starve. And for what? It's for a runt that you, the AKP, know best, is the most expert, is most interested in. This will be handed over to TOKI, replaced by an AVM, where the AKP is probably the most familiar, the AKP is the special area of expertise, and the Prime Minister is in its special area of expertise. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this better be it. Although closing Malatya State Hospital was not enough, Malatya's five-acre estate appeared to be a health facility in the Malatian Municipality of Malatya, but the Ministry of Environment and Urbanisation changed the plan to change this area to a dwelling, a commercial area, and raised the number of precedents of 0.70. With this switch on the plot, it became clear that there was an attempt to increase the rate of the land before it was sold to anyone, so it was clear that it was going to give it to its followers. The Malatians say: "God bless the lawmakers of the AKP." May God feed you, and do not give to anyone the hospital of Malatiah. Dear friends, the AKP gave Malatya one, two, or two, one. So they're shutting down two state hospitals, building a state hospital. I'd like to repeat the Malatians' cry here once again. The Malatians, dear friends, will answer to you in the election. His right-wing leftist acted in front of Malatya State Hospital, saying it over and over again. The Malatians couldn't tell, I couldn't, a Malatian poet says: ♪ Don't ruin our hospital ♪ ♪ Let it go to our trouble ♪ Let those who turn away from the Truth believe in the Hereafter. My name is Kul Mustafa, my last name is Tosun, There's poetry in it, you know. The service to the people is sacred, keep in mind, Those who do what they know, tear their hair off, they call you. Dear friends, another issue is that in Malatya, perhaps in Turkey, the workplaces must be granted a vacation permit by law. The licenses for $50 earlier are $600 this year. So it's going to go up 12 times. Maybe that's the most important thing the AKP has ever done in its increase. As the officer's wages go down, you increase the market licenses of grocery stores, butchers, barbers 12 times as the grocery stores face the poverty limit. Look, I know, you don't care about the grocery store, you don't care about the tradesman, you don't care about the butcher; you're worried about the fellow AVM owners. Because of you, the merchants in the streets of Malatiah are crying out for blood, while the AVM is being provided with all the ease, and Turan Emeksiz street, and Innu street, and many streets of Malatya. In the shoe store, at the Egyptian Market, people were faced with closing doors. Why? Because of your followers, the wealthy businessmen who replace the malls with the ones you've been chasing. Who's disappearing? Those who work day and night with the sweat of their foreheads in Malatiah, and bring bread to their children, perish. Who's getting rich? AKP supporters, who do not know the sweat of the AKP, are getting rich. On March 30th, the Malatians will question you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0131	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the declaration of Article 16 of Law 524, we propose and provide for the addition of the declaration of Article 16 of the law, which is controlled by the Council of Ministers. Secrets Sakık (Muhs) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0210par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0139	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0211par0140	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0141	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to ensure the control of the rotating capital institutions, which are in line with the budget of the ministry. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. There are three motions in Article 17 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of Article 17 of Law Bill 524 shall be changed in the form of the introduction of the declaration. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Çınar Mehmet Günal Reşat Right Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 17th of the Common Legislature. We would like to add the expression "property" before the statement of the executive director. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayyadın Musa Pine Celal Dinçer Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the 17th article of the Law and Law Order's Proposal to change some 524, a report by social service agencies to investigate the child who was handed over to him under Article 9 of Law 5395 will be submitted to the children's family with the approval of the head of the property manager, provided he feels that there is no immediate harm in delivering the child to his family. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Fair Zozani Hasip Tiger Bengi Star Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0212par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0171	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0213par0172	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0173	I'm reading the reason: The above arrangement is an arrangement that allows children who have been handed over to Social Services to be returned to the family by the opinion of the head of a place's property. It is protected by the family's negativeness of children in social services. This arrangement aims to send the child's negative environment back to its earlier environment. That's for the head of property to decide. It is unclear on what basis the guarantee that such negatives will not be allowed to live again when the children are sent back to the environment where they experience negativeness. It's an arrangement that's completely left the property in the best interest of the chief. It leaves the detection of children that can or cannot be implemented to the social services agency and the supervisor, which is problematic in this regard, because no one has been told of the qualifications or the right decisions for those who decide. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 17th of the Common Legislature. We would like to add the expression "property" before the statement of the executive director. Uğur Bayraktutan (Artvin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0214par0182	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0183	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0215par0184	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0209par0185	Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0216par0188	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 17 of Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, when the text of the law is well studied, there is an arrangement in Article 22 of Law 2828. According to this arrangement, there's no problem with the initial statement, and there's no problem with us. Why? A new arrangement is being made according to the Children's Protection Act, described in the framework, with the new arrangement brought in with the mandate and the official court definition. The absence here is also due to the following: Of course, when the first law -- a law dated 1983 -- the Law of Social Services and Child Protective Services; then, in 2005, the Court of Child Protection in particular established what was described in Article 9 of the Article 9 of the Law, which clearly states what was described in the 9th article by the Court of Child Protection. So, in terms of eliminating the legal gap in this matter, there is no problem from our point of view, but if Mr. Minister listens carefully to this clause, there is an interesting incident here, Mr. Minister- there is a second joke, which says that the social services agencies can submit to the child's family as a result of the examination of the child who was handed over to him. There is a report in accordance with Article 9th Article of Law 5395 that requires that the child be taken into custody immediately, and that there is no harm in handing over to his family. Now I've looked at the law here. In Article 9 of the law, which states that the decision to protect the child will be submitted to the child judge in five days' time from the time the child has been taken into custody by Social Services and Child Welfare Services. The judge will decide on the demand within three days. The judge can decide where the child is kept secret and the establishment of a personal relationship if necessary. We're here to give the court the authority to make the emergency protection decision, which is in this regard, in case the courts don't decide in a hurry, because the courts don't decide in the first place, because the family may be victims, but in Article 9 of the law, the lawmaker puts a three-day term, so there's no problem. I mean, here, when the emergency protection decision is being made, we give it to the courts according to Article 9 of the 9th article, and it's being submitted by the court, but as I've just stated, there's no need for surveillance on this matter. Unfortunately, we're taking it from the judiciary, we're taking it from the property management. What does this look like, Mr. Secretary? Now, that's the 32nd amendment of the Civil Law. In the absence of an incident that may have been fatal, the court decides whether or not anyone has been missing or has not been heard from in a long time, and there are two ads. That's true, but there's also a power used as an exception by the property managers, which is the law of death. In the death row, the head of property management, the governor, can drop his death record by ordering my regular law to his personal record. Now, I compared it to him, and I thought, "Is that what the lawmaker thinks?" But when you look at it very carefully, when you're putting in the sentence, when you're putting in the restraining order, you can take it out of the court, but while you're removing this sentence, you think it's enough for an executive decision and the manager of the property to decide. The reason here may be a hesitation in the quick and hasty decision, as I have just stated, but the 9th article has also ruled that the court can decide in three days. So what I want to do here is, if we put a check on the duration of the court -- and we say it's about to be fixed -- we can say it in about this amount of days. If we can say it in one day -- it's given three days in the other -- if we can fix it as a day, we can put a statement here that the judge in such savings may be valid, in accordance with the purpose of the law. Because, at this stage, there's a two-step measure: you're filing a restraining order when you're making a restraining order, and if there's no problem, this time you're authorizing the property manager. It is not for us to speak of the cause of the law, of the soul, of the mouth. It seems simple to give authority to an administrative authority to prevent bilateralism in this regard, but I think it's not quite right. Thus, if this is corrected, it can be given by this court in accordance with the responsibilities and authority of the Law on Child Protection, which, if necessary, is included in the relevant clause of the law found by that person. I wanted to bring this to your attention. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0217par0192	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0218par0193	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0217par0194	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0219par0196	We can do electronics, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0220par0197	This time Mr. Bayram will say no.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0217par0198	Let's do it electronically.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0220par0199	How many left, Mr. Bayram?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0221par0200	I count 102...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0217par0201	There's been a disagreement between the clerks. Let's have an electronic vote.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0203	Mr. President, what's your name on Bayram Bey?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0223par0204	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0205	No?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0206	I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0208	Look, the one next to you counted it. Why don't you trust your friend?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0209	They don't get along from time to time.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0210	But, Mr. President, we'd believe it if they told us the number.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0211	Okay, I know the number.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0212	How many?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0213	I'm not.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0214	And you don't believe your clerk.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0215	I believe, I believe...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0216	You don't believe the clerk on your right. That's why you applied for an electronic vote.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0217	I believe in both. I believe in all of you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0218	If you did, you wouldn't have applied.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0219	Let's be clear, clear...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0222par0220	Why? We're taking it out? He's giving you a hard time?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0221	Let's give it a shot. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the provision of Article 17 of Law Bill 524 shall be changed in the form of the introduction of the declaration. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0225par0229	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0230	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0226par0231	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0224par0232	A slap on the motion, Congressman Reşat will speak correctly. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0227par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made as a National Party of Action Groups on Article 17 of Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. The reason for our motion is that in the present state of matter, all liability property is subject to the manager. Because the provision in the article suggests that the head of the property management has come to the conclusion that there is no immediate protection and that there is no harm in handing the child over to his family. However, we think it would be more appropriate for the relevant social services agency to come to that conclusion in its report. Honourable lawmakers, I would like to move from here to this: the family institution and our children are our most important assets. As of today, the Police Department's report has been published on a very important matter, and I don't know if any of you have been following it. The Police General Directorate's COM Office, the Anti-Trafficking and Organised Crime Agency, published its 2013 drug report. When we follow this report closely, when we examine it, it's impossible not to be horrified. I'd like to share some indications of that with you. So this is the most obvious indicator of where society has come from. In 2012 there were 83,133 drug incidents in our country, 130,049 suspects were arrested, 1330 kilograms of heroin, 152,086 kilograms of marijuana, 225 kilograms of cocaine, 183,537 tablets captagons in the operation. Also, a significant assessment increased by 221.7 per cent compared to the previous year. It's interesting with the capture of 1,300 kilograms of heroin, we've taken the lead in the world. So what this means is that drug use in our country is increasing violently every day, but every day. So, here we are, calling the Ministry of Family Affairs, here, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the ESPAD Project, and the Ministry of National Education, who does not want to allow drugs, substance abuse in our schools to be identified in what dimensions. So we're looking at a terrific painting. Among other things -- this is a terrible situation -- in operations against the PKK and others -- has so far taken 4,584 kilograms of heroin, 36,550 kilograms of cannabis, 17 million, 988,000 root cannabis plants, 4.305 kilograms of morphine, 22 kilograms of opium gum, 710 kilograms of cocaine, 344.135 synthetic drugs, and 4 factories. So the terrorist group has created a full range of them in that area. Respected lawmakers, in many parts of the world, drug trade is controlled, especially by terrorist organizations, but together with the PKK terrorist organization and with it, it should be considered to be one of the reasons why terrorist organisations, who are allies, have achieved a large number of over $10 billion in our country, and have been used in their own activities and have not ended terrorism. So that's how terrorist organizations build factories, along with, you know, 4.584 kilograms of heroin, that they've gotten themselves arrested, and it's important to think about how big it is for those who haven't been caught. In that sense, of course, there are also other sections of the report. I'll try to explain the other parts of it in the other motion, but the honorable lawmakers, it's a fact that our country is facing serious problems with drug-related drug addiction, so it's addictive. In this regard, there are very important measures that must be taken seriously from 60 to 14 years old, and there are measures in schools that need to be taken, and there are measures in families that need to be taken, and I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0228par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th Amendment. Article 2 of the Article 2. The phrase "protective family can also take the job voluntarily" in his paragraph is to be changed to "willingly and willingly." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayayın Süleyman Çelebi İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Çam Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the "payment rates" of Article 18 of Law Bill 524, which is in the third article, "to pay the dues" and "to pay the dues" after the declaration. We offer and offer to add his notice. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Ali Öz Reşat Right Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 18 of the existing 524 rows of the law. We propose and propose the addition of the "impossible" statement to the protected family's social security. The evil tiger secret is the hidden bengi star. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0229par0268	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0228par0269	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0230par0270	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0228par0271	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The goal is to ensure the social security of foster families. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the "payment rates" of Article 18 of Law Bill 524, which is in the third article, "to pay the dues" and "to pay the dues" after the declaration. We offer and offer to add his notice. Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0231par0279	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0228par0280	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0232par0281	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0228par0282	Reşat Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0233par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 18 of the Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. Our reason here will be to determine the time of payment for these payments to the protected families. Honourable MPs, as I have just expressed in the motion, the Police General Directorate has issued a terrible report. I'd like to get back to you on some of the pieces of that report. In 2012, 162 people were killed directly because of drugs and 163 were killed indirectly. This report states that over 60,000 people in our country, except for cannabis and ecstasy use, are related to drugs, use, addiction. Also, more than 83,049 suspects have been arrested in the country, so 23.90 per cent of the previous year have increased, and 23.8% of the suspects have increased. So with each passing day, both the use is increasing and the crimes related to drug use are increasing rapidly, so even that shows what an important danger society is facing. The report also states that 22,445 people were found in prisons for drug-related crimes in 2012. In addition, between 2008 and 2012, 136,020 people are in prison for these crimes. Respected lawmakers, this is a very important place, so almost one out of every five inmates in prisons, six prisoners in prison for this crime, but another important issue is about the Turks who are in prison for these crimes. Look, at the moment, about 30,000 Turkish people lie in prisons in Europe. The people who are in prisons -- almost -- have been researched in this one -- are in European prisons for over 60 per cent of drug crimes. The interesting part is that those Turkish people in European prisons are sent to our country after their sentence is over, so you're done, so go to your country after that. But it's interesting that, of course, now that our people have come to Turkey with that sentence completed, our young people are in a position to bring an infectious disease to their village, so no measures are taken. While the European Union is sending countries themselves, there are important tasks for our Family Ministry or for our Ministry of Youth and Sports or other officials here. I mean, that's where the infectious disease comes from. He's going to his village, and there's an exposed painting in his village. The person who was sent to his village, the person who was sent from Europe, from prisons, to his village here, must be given some support. Of course, that's true of others. Look, right now, they have AMATEM centers in our country. AT AMATEM centers, people are being treated for drugs. Mr. Secretary, they just stated that you've taken over 2,000 social workers, psychologists, sociologists to your own Ministry. Respected lawmakers, the same painting should be at the treatment centers in our hospitals at AMATEM centres right now. In many of our hospitals, AMATEM centers, right now -- if I'm not wrong -- there are 26 of our centers that lack psychiatrists, there's a lack of psychologists, there's a lack of sociologists, so some of our people or more of our people who are going to be taken there have to be taken here because there's a Turkey that's facing very serious problems. So we're dealing with a painting that tends to drugs, especially in the schools of our major cities, that's moving rapidly towards it. Smoking is increasing. See, that's where people who smoke are transferred from smoking to, in fact, in research on the start of drugs. So, here's to our Ministry of Family, our schools, or rather, our families, saying that they have a very important mission, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0234par0294	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 18th Amendment. Article 2 of the Article 2. The phrase "protective family can also take the job voluntarily" in his paragraph is to be changed to "willingly and willingly." Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0235par0301	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0234par0302	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0236par0303	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0234par0304	İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0237par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the 18th amendment of the underlying bill. I salute the High Council with love. Dear friends, it is clear that five out of every 100 working in Turkey are children between 6 and 14 years old, while 14 out of 100 are young people working between 15 and 19 years old. Turkey's 6 to 14-year-old group produces 32 per cent of the children's population, while 77% of the working children are in agriculture, 11 per cent are in industry, 7 per cent are in the trade sector. 87 per cent of children in six to 14-year-old groups throughout the country continue to attend school, while 27 per cent study and study both. Employers' reasons for preferring child labor are listed as: The child's work is an income-profit concept for the family, cheap labour for the employer who employs the child, while the working child is perceived as earning money and growing up as an adult. The arrangements are being made for the foster home, but as a social state, the state is not going to make a serious structural change towards children. The state is losing its ability to be a social state in your power more and more. Unfortunately, the government's umbrella of protection on family, women and children has been lifted. There's still no cure for child labor, still children on the streets. Instead of raising free individuals, the education system is still being brought in, a single generation is being created. Our children's future is still being stuffed in shoeboxes. We're still far from creating a habitable country for them. For example, in Ankara, at the Ataturk Forest Farm and ODTÜ, the trees stand in their eyes, and the trees are old, but the trees can be cut down. A healthy society can still be torn apart by destroying streams.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0238par0311	Don't cross the road!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0237par0312	Our children are presented with a choice of futurelessness, hunger, poverty. You still haven't stopped using children as subjects with populist education policies. Our training system gives out SOS every day, but there's no fixer. The only real dream you've promised them all is being unemployed with a diploma. Still child labor continues to die. A woman can still be killed in front of the boy. You can still ride a motorcycle with a rope around your barber's apprentice's neck. At home, women and children are still exposed to violence. The fact of the pose is still not solved. We still haven't been able to bring justice to children who were killed in Roboski. And then, from here, you're making reforms that you can't make up for in life, that you can't internalize, that's called reform. Justice for children, a good education for children, a world for children to live in, we must have the highest purpose here, but I'm still calling from here, children: "We'll see good days, sunny days." We'll drive the engines into the blue. Believe it, children. The last word will be spoken again by children in this country. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0315	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The 19th Amendment to your votes...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0240par0318	Mr. President, Article 18.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0319	I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0241par0320	Mr. President, you're tired, take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0321	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0241par0322	You're tired.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0323	Well, we'll keep going. There are three motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th of the current bill of law. We propose that 3% of the amount be changed to 4%. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose to change the amendment to some Law and Law Act 524 in accordance with Article 19 of the Law Proposal. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of the law, which is to be submitted after the declaration of the 19th article of the 524 rows of the Common Law. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Ahmet Duran Bulut Reşat Right Does the Commission agree with the final motion that was read?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0242par0346	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0347	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0243par0348	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0239par0349	Slap Congressman Reşat Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0244par0351	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the National Party's motion on Article 19 of Law Bill 524. I salute the High Council. Of course, it's an important law. It is impossible to disagree with the laws of this law, but I agree with many of the laws. Our reason here is that people the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will determine are in poor condition in order to prevent arbitrary practices from being challenged. So it's an arrangement for foster care. The government supports foster care for orphaned children, and that's true. So, being assigned to foster homes will at some point reduce the burden of the state. So with this arrangement, small and low-income families are also intended to have children. However, the fact is that domestic violence in our country has also grown to a great extent in recent years. This domestic violence, according to recent reports, also goes back to sexual abuse. And sexual abuse, I think, is way too big to belittled. We are also obliged to acknowledge that the danger exists for children who are placed in foster care during the time of intense sexual abuse. Therefore, we are obliged to present serious policies that will prevent the abuse of foster families. I mean, here, here we are, handing the kid over to foster care, and it's all over. It's not possible to say. So, after the child is delivered, it must be followed very well and controlled with it. There's no way the trial, the punishment, can cover the child's trauma after he's been abused. I'd like to say once again that those children are our children and that we are in a state of control. I mean, the kid was traumatized, and then he went to the courthouse, and that doesn't mean the problem is completely resolved. Especially recently, we have found children on the streets who have been collecting papers under the name of the street children. Regarding these, again, a child of ours in a car accident died recently as a result of a car shooting while he was there collecting paper. I mean, at some point, at these points, it's the need for humanity to support the giving of our children to foster families. Congressmans, I'd like to move on from here to another matter. In the information that has just reached us, in East Turkistan, right now, there is a great injustice. People in their leadership have been arrested one by one by the Turkish Turkish East. Again, one professor was arrested in East Turkistan with his friends, and his fate is unknown. Here, here, we must strongly oppose these events. See, right now, Rabia Kadir, one of the leaders of East Turkistan, can't enter our Turkey, can go all over the world. In the past few days, there has been a very large convention in Japan concerning the Turkishness of East Turkia, an international convention, and people from Turkey have been invited to that convention again, and people from many places have been invited there, and Rabia Kadir Ma'am has been able to go to Japan and speak there, but interestingly, Turkey is not coming to our country. It's a human shame. For the state of the Republic of Turkey, there is no subject that should be allowed at that point, and we are strongly condemning it. This is where I'm calling the State Department: let's make sure we keep East Turkia Turkish. Look, over 30 million people live there, our brothers live there. Abstaining the Turkishness of East Turkia means not having to claim all of the world's Turkishness. If the Turks in Azerbaijan are unable to return to their homes at the moment, then if the Turks in Azerbaijan are being forced to move away from their occupied territory, then these problems should be our problems, where we have to have them, with their women and their men and their children, with their children. In the past days, on January 20th, the anniversary of the Azerbaijan massacres was commemorated. In the coming days, on February 26th, the Hodja massacres will be remembered and remembered. Dear friends, on February 26th and January 20th, as well as the Turks of Azerbaijan, say we must take care of the Turks of East Turkistan, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0245par0359	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose to change the amendment to some Law and Law Act 524 in accordance with Article 19 of the Law Proposal. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0246par0366	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0245par0367	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0247par0368	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0245par0369	I'm reading the reason: Matter is essentially positive. However, there is no reason why the Darşafaka Society did not take advantage of a three per cent fee. Members of this community must be included in taking advantage of three per cent opportunity. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 19th of the current bill of law. We propose that 3% of the amount be changed to 4%. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0248par0378	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0245par0379	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0249par0380	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0245par0381	Dilek Akagün Yilmaz on the motion, Uğur MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0250par0384	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have been promised to discuss the amendment motion given by our party on the 19th article of Bill 524, which we are discussing. Now, we're discussing the changes made in Social Services Act 2828. Again, it's an institution directly linked to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Now, I took a look at Law 2828, there was a change in 2005, a change in 2007, a change in the decree of the law again in 2011, made in 2012, and made in July 2013. Today's 6th amendment. Dear friends, do you realize what's been done? So since about 2005, the sixth amendment has been made, the main law is made in the form of a decree, and because you have given basic law status without any discussion, without real discussion, without real discussion, proposals, materials; raise your hand, lower, lower. So, in a matter of this importance, the elderly, the disabled, the children, the children, are being processed in such a legal arrangement about protecting these parts, and I'm deeply disturbed by it, and you need to hear it, and you need to say, "Stop." It's not a legal arrangement in this way by redoing the substances that you've changed. So, as a lawyer friend of mine in this country said, you've turned people and lawyers into law-breakers, believe me. Now even our colleagues don't know how to follow the changes in the legislation, how to follow the changes in the bag. Now, the change in the 19th Amendment changes the 34th article of Law 2828. In private social services, three per cent of their capacity is free of charge, providing opportunities for those appointed by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. It's a positive substance, actually. So we say: let this not be 3%, let these special institutions provide help by 4%. What is this? In addition to the state, the social responsibility project of private institutions means providing services for the elderly, children, disabled people at rehabilitation centres for free. It's a positive thing in that way, but now I want to share with you some of the mistakes I've seen on a few substances. For example, the framework has passed the 14th article, it has been discussed, but I think the Minister will take that into consideration. Home-type social services are the creation of these units. Now, we go to social services, from time to time, at festivals, or at different times, to visit servants. Now, we see children in social services, nursing homes, foster homes, or children's homes, we see elderly people, we see disabled people, we observe what's being done there, but we can't see children in children's homes, we can't talk to them, we don't know if they have any problems, we don't know them. Now, the arrangement of children's homes, especially in Article 14, is one of the things that I think is especially important. There are six or seven children in children's homes, with a mother on their head, but a closed box. How these houses are being audited, the abuses that can happen in these houses, the abuses or ideological configurations, I want to question them, whether they're being audited, whether they want to do it or not. Children's homes, I really think, are places where they need to be re-examined, and I think the inspection should be done very well, but the ultimate one is, I think, the right one is the children's homes site. I want to talk about one more item. In Article 15 of the Framework, you exclude employees from the scope of the Work Law. The reason is that they have to work for about four hours, to reassure the children and those who are there, to give trust to those who are in the homes. You say, "But if you take out the scope of the Labour Act, deny them all the rights of seniority, reporting, working conditions, it means that they are a slave system, it means that there is no peace of mind, that there is no tolerance for children, there is no tolerance for old people." You're saying we're going to run a person for 24 hours, and we don't know what to do here, including a week's vacation, because it's called management, and that's not going to happen. Taking into consideration this proposal, I believe that a re-negotiation of the interim Article 15 of the Labour Law should be discussed with people who know the issues in the working life. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0251par0395	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 20: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add a second term after the statement of the 20th article (d) of the current legislation (d) can be used. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Musa Pine Aydın Agha Ayadın Süleyman Çelebi Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "the five-year term" in Article 20 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th Amendment in Articles 2828 of the Law Proposal for the Amendment to some Laws and Laws of 524, A) Instead of the expression "one-thousandth of the total" of the staff and positions, "at least one child in every position and staff. B) First-school graduates as an additional declaration of employment, in order of license, pre-license and secondary education D) The use of the central exam results is fundamental. Instead of the expression, the central examination results are placed into the job. I propose and recommend that the draft text be changed. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the commission participate in the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0252par0421	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0251par0422	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0253par0423	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0251par0424	I'm reading the reason: One in a thousand meets a very few staff, and even if it is less than a thousand, public institutions and institutions must employ more children and not at least one child. It is against the principle of equality for individuals who are deprived of the license. It is also a problem that this right is limited to one time. Positive discrimination can be made for children who have been granted protection or care protection. Because these children have already been protected because of their problems. Hence, their problems may have affected their entire life as well as their education. Since they are at a disadvantage in the current examinations, they are likely to fail according to other individuals. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "the five-year period" in Article 20 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0254par0436	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0251par0437	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0255par0438	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0251par0439	Manisa MP Erkan Akçay will speak. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0256par0442	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion in Article 20 of Law Bill 524. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in accordance with the 20th article and the Social Services Act and the Child Protective Services Act, children who have been given protection or care measures are required to benefit from a social service model of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy for at least two years. This deadline for public employment is positive, and I want to express it first, and we find it to be positive, as far as the general lines are concerned. Because we know that some of the children were taken into protective custody and put to work in public a few months before they reached puberty, even a few weeks away. If these children are employed in the private sector, the insurance premiums will be covered by the insurance policy and the treasury for five years, starting with the starting date of the employee's share. We don't think it's right to limit this application to five years, and we think it's going to bring some problems with it. Since these private sector business owners have maxed out the maximum five-year term, these children will lay off workers who can't get a discount and hire other children to take advantage of the discount. We demand that a five-year deadline be lifted in our motion. We support the public placement of children who have been given a decision to protect or care, as I said, but I think we should show the same care to the children of our martyrs, the precious lawmakers. Well, isn't it being taken care of? Of course, it wouldn't be right to say that it wasn't taken care of, but we can say that it wasn't taken care of enough. In July of last year and in July of the year before that, in July of 2012, we had all put together and supported it together, we had evaluated it together in the commissions. Now, this practice can be used, especially under the existing laws in July, by one of the spouses or children born of martyrdom, and the other by one of their parents or siblings. I mean, two people in the family are entitled to that, one is the martyr's wife or child, the other is one of their parents or siblings. In the event that our martyr has more than one hundred children, there may be several disagreements and even dissensions between the husband and his children and the parents and the brother, including broken families. Now, I'd like to share a photograph with you in terms of example. This Gendarme Sergeant Yücel Koç is a martyr on May 21, 2008, and his children are three young children with their father's body. Now, one of these kids is going to get a job. Who will be given a job, which state will be theirs, and which one will you go and get a job for yourself? Under the Anti-Terror Act, all children of privates and privates who have lost their lives must be put to work. It's not really a self-resolved victimification, a demand to meet. The family of martyrs may have a very good financial situation, and may not need employment at all. The important thing is that such an opportunity is recognized by the government. This will be an example of the state's power over our martyrdom. With these thoughts, I wish to accept our motion, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0257par0451	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to add a second term after the statement of the 20th article (d) of the current legislation (d) can be used. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0258par0458	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0257par0459	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0259par0460	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0257par0461	İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0260par0464	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the 20th amendment of the proposed bill. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. Mr. Secretary, dear friends, we're talking about a very important issue, child labor, children's problems, a fundamental problem that the social state can solve from minimum to minimum. But our proposals on this matter, all our demands on this matter in the Commission have been pushed away. In this country, most of the kids are still working in the produce area picking up garbage, selling tissues, cleaning car windows, painting shoes. In many other areas, Turkey is the head of countries with the most child labor exploitation. In 2011, the children's congress was held in Turkey. But despite these demands, despite these approaches, the issue of child labor is unstoppable, and on the contrary, child labour exploitation continues to be widespread every day. Here we call the children of our future. Everyone has children, but the way you see your own children, whatever circumstances you think your own children should live on, please think of the children who once again collect paper with conscience and human emotion. I wish you'd take into account the conditions of living, the conditions of living in that cold, the conditions of those children who collect the garbage, who receive the alimony, who work in the industry under very bad conditions. Because it's a country where subcontractors are the most common, and we're going through the most common process of child labor exploitation, as subcontractors are widespread in this country. So it's up to all of us to come up with a solution here. Mr. Secretary, you also represent an important area of social policy. Yesterday, people who were old enough to retire came here in the rain under the mud and were not asked to be admitted to the House first. The reason why he's not in parliament is that many people can come to all political parties as they please, but these people, the ones who live in retirement, they've held press conferences outside, they're activists because they're holding press conferences, activists can't get in, and they're not allowed in there for hours in the cold and in the rain. This problem is Turkey's problem. You also don't have to refer the problem of those who live in retirement to the Labour Minister alone. You also have to be sensitive about that and contribute to the problem with pensioners. Because, at the same time, they have not only pension problems but also treatment problems, they cannot benefit from health care. Seven thousand, eight thousand, nine thousand days alone, 55 years old, 54 years old, they're still kept waiting for age, and these people can't get paid, they can't work anywhere. This is Turkey's bleeding wound, which needs to be resolved. Second important issue: judicial decisions are still not being carried out in this country. We've said it over and over again from this bench, and we say: despite the local court ruling on the land-road workers, there is a government that resists this decision, despite the decision of the Supreme Court. You're committing a crime, so get rid of this crime as soon as possible, and we're asking those verdicts to please abide by the verdict of the judiciary, and I say we solve this problem in subcontractoria. And finally, my dear friends, in the last few weeks in Sincan, you know that children have been tortured, persecuted, and let's put this on the agenda. I salute the High Council with love.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit06spe0261par0472	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of İzmir MP Hülya Güven and his friends' motion failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-vote the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough land, there is not enough, the motion is not accepted. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. Commission? Here. Government? Here. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-three of the current bill of law. The term "less than a third of the monthly net amount of minimum wage" in the Article shall be replaced by the expression "the minimum wage is the size of the competition." Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayyadın Musa Pine Hülya Trust Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the declaration be removed from the bill in accordance with the procedure of Article 21 (b) in Article 23 of Law Bill 524. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is currently in session, shall be added to the draft text by changing Article 23 to add additional clauses to Law 2828 in the following way. The following article has been added to the Law No. 23: 2828. "Current citizens of the Republic of Turkey, whose average monthly income per household is less than minimum wage, are given care by local governments of their settlements, no matter what name. The scope of this care service and the way it is provided will be decided in the municipalities' own parliaments. The premiums and other grants collected at the central level are transferred to the relevant local government unit based on the city's population structure, density and income. The fulfillment of maintenance services through service purchase is subject to the relevant principles laid out in Law 4734. İdris Bauken Bengi Star Hasip Kaplan Iron Steel İbrahim Rider Fair Zozani Does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0262par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0031	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0263par0032	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0033	I'm reading the reason: For the elderly, home care has been intended to be offered with a decentralisation focus and to improve the envisioned income requirement for the use of the services. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 23 of Law Bill 524, we propose and propose that the declaration of Article 2 of Law 4734 (b) be removed from the draft text according to the procedure in which the bell is followed. Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0264par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0043	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0265par0044	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0266par0045	Motive...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0046	I'm reading the reason: It is envisioned that Turkish citizens who are 65 years old and in need may receive maintenance services according to the procedure followed by Article 21 (b) of Article 21 of Public Contraction Act 4734. The ruling stipulates the method of negotiation if the tender must be carried out immediately after sudden and unexpected or unpredictable events -- such as natural disasters, epidemics, life loss, or loss of property -- have arisen by the administration. This arrangement can lead to the direction of the tenders as requested. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-three of the current bill of law. We would like to change the term "less than a third of the monthly net amount of minimum wage" in the article to "half the minimum wage." Hülya Trust (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0267par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0058	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0268par0059	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0261par0060	Ýzmir MP Hülya Güven will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0269par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the lawmakers are about to discuss the amendment motion for Article 23 of Law Bill 524, and I salute the grand delegation. With this clause, lawmakers are said to be able to provide care services for elderly people who are over 65 years old and whose monthly income per household is less than one-third of the minimum wage, or under 240 lira. In fact, there are two important problems: First, if $240 per person is reaped, then $245 per person, he will not be able to benefit from this right. In the family, disability care is valued at 486 lira per person's income, while in 65 years, it is valued at $240. I mean, if the old man was on his own and we thought he was living in a rented house, how's he gonna make a living with that money, $245? And it's also based on all kinds of income here, like the rest of them. Besides, who's going to pay for the food of the person who's being directed and who's going to provide care, and who's going to be facing the old man as a problem. So it's not necessary for the old man to come. It's something to make him think. The second important problem is that it encourages subcontractorship. The quality, the knowledge of the person who will be employed by service, is unclear. They may get the minimum wage you're jealous of looking at disabled people and not paying them, but they're going to have problems with subcontractors and employees. Without guarantees, without unions, without collective contract rights, they will serve as modern slaves. So another group of slaves is being created. If they are old or disabled, whether they are retired or have a prosperous income to live on, they will be able to provide for care themselves, they will not need that kind of help. Today, we're looking at pensioners, they're crawling, and they can't get treatment because they're paying for the treatment. As for the employee, he will be removed. On the one hand, hope is distributed, but on the other hand, the number of subcontractors is increased. Some will be given a staff. As they are called, the number of subcontractors in many areas including health -- physicians, nurses, technicians -- they do not run out. Besides, business accidents and deaths are most common with subcontractors. The subcontractor of the subcontractor, his subcontractor, so what are they, not running slaves? In hospitals, people who are taken under the guise of a cleaning worker take care of patients, inject them, and there are many problems. So, how are these subcontractors gonna look at the old guy? And who's going to be in charge if the old man slips into the house? The clause of this bill is not clear. What will be the quality of the care provider? Is he going to make the service purchase old or is he going to do the ministry? How and by whom? It's a system that eliminates business security. Perhaps an arrangement is being arranged to transfer money through subcontractors to one of the elderly. It's probably going to be used as an election investment, and you'll stop after the election. However, you will make the elderly unhappy, whose monthly income is over 240 liras, for example 250 liras. The elderly and their families who can't afford subcontractor care will also be unhappy because no one can live on the price of $240, and it is the duty of the state to free the two million subcontractors from slavery, to give them their rights by looking out for human rights, to ensure that they do their rights. I suggest that this unspecified substance be transformed into a more explicit form and that employees be provided without a subcontractor system, that the search for income under 240 lira be removed, and my compliments. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0270par0073	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0271par0076	Mr. President, I demand a statement in accordance with Article 60, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0270par0077	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0271par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I think there's a problem with writing in the article, and I'd like the Minister to stay on the subject: the expression, meaning, is that people who are 65 years of age need care, and therefore they're ordered to provide care services by the state if the income is not good. However, there is no reason for a 65-year-old to need care, so it is not right to describe the person over 65 as a person who is weak, who is weak. I do not find it right to make such an arrangement by acting on such an assumption. A person may be 60 years old, but his income is not good, and he may also need care. I think it would be helpful for the Ministry to review this one more time. The health of a non-infinity person can be extremely good, so let's put that understanding aside once and for all. People under the age of 65 who are not well-income and in need of care must also be provided by the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0272par0081	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Are you going to make a statement, Mr. Secretary? Here, take your seat...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0273par0084	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the goal here is this: this is a provision that paves the way to buy services from private nursing homes for citizens over the age of 65 but not enough to care for them. I mean, in our nursing homes, we're already looking at people like this, but other than that, it's something that allows us to help people by buying services from private care providers. He doesn't have to be disabled or have to do his own thing. We apply to a criteria in terms of living standards or in terms of income, and if there's no one to look after him, if he has no family, if his income is not enough, we buy their services...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0274par0085	So if his income isn't enough, if he's in good health...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0275par0086	Well, if it's good, why do you need care?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0274par0087	If he's capable of taking care of himself, isn't it better to give him a cash allowance, a cash allowance, instead of a care service?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0275par0088	Isn't it open to abuse?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0276par0089	We're already doing that, but in order to satisfy your need for shelter...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0277par0090	Let's not talk mutually, let's get this over with, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0278par0091	But now you're here on a month's salary. A person can have his own house, live in a good house or a bad house, but he can have a really low income, he can have a $200 income a month. The person is in good health, and he only needs one cash help, but you're saying you're going to provide a maintenance service, so there's an understanding behind that arrangement that considers a person who's over 65 years old to be a weak person. You have to correct that statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0277par0093	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you. They'll probably make an assessment. There are three motions in Article 24: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of "to be looked after without charge" by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the first article of Article 2828 added to Article 2828, "to be looked after without charge," "to be looked after," and "to be cared for" by the State of the Law and by the Law." Mihrimah Belma Kiyet Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat İsmail Kashdemir Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-fourth of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we would like to add the expression "no less than 1/4 of the minimum wage" to the term "the monthly net allowance is given." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Ali Özgündün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose to the elderly and disabled persons in Article 24 of the Law Bill 524 which is currently in session, that the declaration be added, not less than a quarter of the minimum wage, should come after the declaration. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0279par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0277par0118	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0280par0119	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0281par0120	Mesut Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0277par0121	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0282par0124	Mr. President, I have pledged on behalf of our National Movement Party Group that we have submitted a amendment motion on Article 24 of the Law Charter on the Amendment to Some Law and Law Orders of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy No. 524. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, with the amendment to this clause, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the institutions established within the Darulaceze will go to arrange the allowance for care providers each month by staying free. This arrangement is a late arrangement in our country, and I wish this arrangement could have been done sooner. There are 107 state nursing homes in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which provide care for about 10,899 elderly people. Other than that, in our country, other ministries, municipalities, foundations and associations, the nursing homes also provide care for the elderly, but this is insufficient. When services are added around here, there are about 19,000 elderly people in the homes of 300 official and private institutions in our country. 36 of these nursing homes continue to serve the elderly in Ankara, 42 of them in İzmir, and 85 of them in Istanbul. Outside the nursing homes, there is also a care service provided by elderly service centres in our country. Outside the elder service centers, 398,335 people receive home care. Although there are many demands, the state is unable to pay enough attention to them. The poverty and the distribution of income in our country, unfortunately, has increased the number of citizens who benefit from the care service every day. Mr. President, good lawmakers, no old man should be left hungry, open and in need. The only way to keep the government alive is to keep people alive. The value of this country is measured by what it values its people. In order to look to the future with confidence, we have to ensure that pensioners and elderly people live an honorable life. We must not allow our pensioners and elders to be excluded from society by being condemned to loneliness. The policies facing the elderly must be prepared to cover their old age. The sick, disabled, and poor elderly must be protected and cared for and put into practice social policies that will increase their joy in life and protect the quality of life immediately. The solutions to life quality, sickness, and care need to be produced. Old people must have easy access to health care. The standard of elderly health care must be improved and ensure effective use of these services. In order to maintain their daily routine, elders need to be provided with care and assistance in modern standards. The population factor should be opened and expanded in sufficient levels of senior homes in each province without consideration, and this should be encouraged. Support services must also be developed in order to meet the daily needs of the elderly living alone. This framework should increase support services for needy elderly in such matters as cleaning, day - to - day care, shopping. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers must be developed the nursing system for the elderly and the sick in need. In need, families need to be supported in protecting and caring for their elderly and providing for all kinds of economic and social needs. Social benefits for elderly in need must be increased. These payments must be paid without hurting and by acting out a social right. With these thoughts and feelings, I ask for the acceptance of our proposal for a change, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0283par0131	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-fourth of the current bill of law. At the end of the article, we would like to add the expression "no less than 1/4 of the minimum wage" to the term "the monthly net allowance is given." Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0284par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0283par0139	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0285par0140	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0283par0141	İstanbul MP Ali will speak in Özgündün. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0286par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. When the friends arrived, they said: "Bring some freshness, there's too much relief." Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Madam Secretary, I wish you all the best. Dear friends, the motion that we've made is a provision for the 24th article in which social services agencies and Darulaceze are given allowances for persons who are older and disabled. It's said that this is determined every year in the budget law. We say, "Let this amount be already determined, let there be no less than 1/4 of the minimum wage." Dear friends, and especially Mr. Secretary, now, the issue of the 23rd article, which has just been discussed, actually contradicts the logic, so it contradicts the logic. You didn't set an age limit here, you said age and disability, you set a 65-year-old limit on the previous article. You provide maintenance there, you provide allowance here. So, old and disabled... What's a disabled but old? So, in the previous article, you said 65 years old, there's no limit here. Based on what, you're going to determine that, and based on what? Which, as Mr. Group Vice President just said, may not be needing care by the time he's 65. Thus, by giving an allowance to this person, he can be allowed to live his life. No, we're not going to make allowances there, but you're going to call it maintenance. We'll give an allowance to the person who's already staying here at the social services agency. I think it's a contradiction. So I think it would be helpful if you did an evaluation again. Another issue, dear friends, is that only the elderly and disabled who stay here at Darulaceze and Social Services are given such an opportunity. Our young people in day care, who need more allowance. I don't know if there's an arrangement anywhere else, but if he makes a statement about it, Mr. Secretary, we'll know. In particular, it is the need of the social state to provide an allowance for young people who live in children's homes and social services.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0287par0151	How about they give the minister's kids an allowance?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0286par0152	As you know, our Constitution states that the Republic of Turkey is a social law state. Again, in Article 58, the state takes the necessary measures to protect young people from drugs, guilt, gambling, bad habits. So, who's the government here? It's you, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Today, the most important problem that threatens Turkey's future is that young people are addicted to drugs and drugs. Dear lawmakers, especially our young 12-18-year-olds -- unfortunately -- are addicted to drugs and addictive substances, and they're being treated, unfortunately, the AMATEM centers are inadequate. This is a very serious problem, a problem that concerns the future of all of us. These drug addicts, drug addicts, are both a problem that threatens the safety of all of us, and it's really our future, young people. So, you see, to protect the young, sir, I forbid the sale of alcohol from now on, and I won't sell it in oil. Because of the physical and digital inadequacies of the AMATEM, many of our young people, our drug addicts, cannot be cured. An appointment is scheduled for a few months from now, while the family can't take care of it. They can be violent even to their own parents. Therefore, this matter is much more important. In this regard, Mr. Secretary, there's also a problem between your Ministry of Health and your Ministry about whose duty it is. I've passed it on to the Minister before you, and I've passed it on to the Minister of Health, which is whose responsibility the AMATEM are, which is a serious problem. I'm going to continue this on the next item. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0288par0157	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of "to be looked after without charge" by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the first article of Article 2828 added to Article 2828, "to be looked after without charge," "to be looked after," and "to be cared for" by the State of the Law and by the Law." Mihrimah Belma Row (Istanbul) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0289par0164	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0288par0165	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0290par0166	We agree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0288par0167	I'm reading the reason: In the article's arrangement, this motion was made to clarify the statement so that people who benefit from the care services provided by social services would be given an allowance and would not hesitate to apply it. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 24th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 25: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-five of the current bill of law. At the end of its Article, we propose that the phrase "judgments before this clause is in effect" be changed to "all relevant provisions prior to the date of this clause's execution." Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayadın Musa Pine Sedef Small Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 25th amendment of the current Law Bill, 524 rows, be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz The following temporary clause is added to the Law 25-2828. "UNIFE MADDE 10- In the scope of Article 7 of this Law, the provisions prior to the date of this clause continue to be carried out in determining income changes for those who have been given special care at special care centres or residences and those who have applied to benefit from these services, and in determining the income status of those who have applied for these services until 1/7/2014. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0291par0190	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0288par0191	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0292par0192	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0288par0193	Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0293par0195	Mr. President, I have pledged on behalf of our National Movement Party Group that we have submitted a amendment motion on Article 25 of the Perpetual Law Charter on the Amendment to the Law and Law Orders of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, 524. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers, such as the spread of chronic diseases and aging in the country's population, have increased the importance of home care worldwide. In this regard, home care has become a professional service work requirement in our country. In 2011, about 352,000 people were given home care by the state, while the number rose to 38,000 people in 2012. Depending on the growing economic and social problems every year, the number of home care providers in our country is constantly increasing. The home care service and continuous health care presentation for the elderly are among the most important problems in our country. In our country, care services are considered the primary responsibility of the family, but the situation in the population structure changes that. Reasons for women to be more involved in business than in the past increase their need for care care more and more. The long-term elderly care service affects both employees and home care providers physically, spiritually, and socially. Therefore, it often cuts down its working life, which also causes economic loss. Depending on increasing needs for care for disabled and elderly people, institutions such as nursing homes and nursing homes need to be increased, as well as home care providers. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers should be given care services based on old age by people who have been trained in this area. The elderly care services also have an important position in improving the quality of life for those in need of care. Health problems during old age often depend on chronic diseases. Older individuals have difficulty taking and moving more than one drug during this period. The elderly and disabled population also need food and general body hygiene. In addition to drug treatment, older maintenance technicians are of great importance in our country in the care of other services to be provided, and these technicians need to be helped with their assignments and work on them every day. In every environment, the senior maintenance technician evaluates and implements the physical, spiritual, and social care services of the elderly individual. The quality of daily living for elderly people who receive care needs to be maintained, maintained, and upgraded to the highest level. In our country, our youth graduates of the senior care program have been trained today to provide medical and social care in these areas. Although they have received a high degree of training, they expect to be employed for elderly care services. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, and the senior care service, instead of graduates of this program, are given by people who are not trained and who are not in the profession. Such practices have a negative effect on home care. With these thoughts and feelings, I ask for the acceptance of our motion, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0294par0202	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0295par0204	Sir, if you'd let us finish the applause, then you'd better put it to a vote.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0294par0205	That was a good round of applause, Mr. Janitori. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-five of the current bill of law. We would like to change the terms of this clause to all relevant provisions prior to the date of its execution. Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0296par0211	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0294par0212	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0297par0213	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0294par0214	Mr. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0298par0216	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 25th Amendment of Bill 524. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers have been talking about all Turkey's corruption, corruption, bribery, trade in influence, trucking, removal, deportation police and prosecutors, interference in the judiciary, and are amazed at what's been going on. In fact, it's hard not to be surprised by what happened. In the travel protests, Destan wrote. When one learns that police are actually gangs, that the congregation that has been walking hand in hand with power for many years is actually a parallel state, that prosecutors who are applauded in the cases of Ergenekon, Balyoz and CK are actually traitors and that there is no such thing as corruption, one is naturally surprised. And they're not the only ones that surprise me. Again, in the process, we learned that shoe boxes with dollars in them are actually innocent, but for protest, shoe boxes from the balcony are a crime. Over the years, we have seen that those who call it unfinished orphan's rights do not move when it comes to their own investigation. We've seen our distinguished press rise from penguins to ostriches. After all, in the last month and a half, there have been many incidents in our country that will never be seen in many countries without further democracy, although seen, that will make a number of governments resign and continue to happen. Dear lawmakers, anyone who is investigated in the process has always been called "manidar" for the timing. Naturally, one can't help but ask: the timing of these investigations is a good thing, isn't it, the counting machines, the cash registers? Don't you think the phone calls to the prosecutors make sense that the trial is being threatened? Doesn't it make sense that prosecutors and forensic law enforcement, who were once declared heroes, were driven from place to place? Doesn't it make sense to have hundreds of people who have been fabricated and thrown in jail looking for conspiracy under every stone? It doesn't make sense that thousands of people's private lives were being investigated while sheets were being poured into the newspapers, and now it makes sense? Dear friends, this was all wrong yesterday and wrong today. The Republican People's Party called them wrong yesterday, and today they say they're wrong, but the situation of those who didn't say wrong yesterday, and even those who defended that wrong to the end, really makes sense today. I hope the political institution has learned a lesson from these events. I hope you've seen the right of innocence and the right to a fair trial. I hope that trying to bend and bend the justice system the way it suits you has not had the right results. Dear lawmakers, democratic regimes need to be predictable. People need to know that when something happens to them, they're gonna get justice. If it's called parallel, who will the people trust, if it's called the prosecutor? If justice is hurt in people -- and justice has suffered a great deal in our country -- there's a system left with an empty shell in its hand, and this system can't help people, let alone themselves. These events have shown us all the errors in the justice system, the negativity of staffing, and most of all, that when the day of justice comes, everyone needs them. It's also possible to fix this situation, believe me. As long as you don't get any personal expectations or a sense of commitment or a sense of obedience, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0299par0224	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The 26th article has two proposals of the same nature. I'll have them read the motions.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0300par0228	Sir, we're withdrawing our motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0299par0229	So there's a motion in Article 26 that I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-sixth of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayyadın Sedef Little Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0301par0237	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0299par0238	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0302par0239	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0299par0240	Mr. Sedef Küçük will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0303par0243	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 26th Amendment of Law Bill 524. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, it's the feeling of us that sustains societies. For any reason, if we are removed from emotion or removed, the opportunity for that society to live in peace and peace will also be removed. If this feeling of being us is worn down by me, by you, by every positive, negative voice, by the traitor, believe me, we will all remain under it. We don't need enemies, we don't need a mindset that makes enemies out of every stone. See, especially since December 17th, there have been opposition, journalists, prosecutors, business representatives, shoplifters in the street. Those who have shouted, "There is a thief." Everyone who has not said what power wants has been called "the traitor," they have been called "the traitor." By doing so, the feeling of being us has been damaged, and the wounds are hard to close. I would like to point out that the danger of this statement is that no one has a monopoly on the love of the country, and that it is only in authoritarian countries to be branded as a traitor to every critic. In this country, no one has the right to call another traitor. No one has the right to make enemies of others just because they don't fit their personal expectations. If other priorities get in the way of management priorities, not only will social tensions increase, but the biggest damage is to the citizens of this country, which should never be forgotten. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd also like to point out that it's not treason, it's the country's debt to draw attention to the danger that exists and lies ahead, to oppose corruption, to seek an impartial and fair trial. [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] You can't help but remember the powers of September 12th when you hear the accusations of these traitors, the domestic and external altars. At that time, the square was considered an inner and external altar, a great conspiracy was mentioned, and almost everyone was labeled a traitor; when the witch pot was boiled and someone was declared an enemy, all problems were mistaken, and then you know. Today, no one remembers those days with good. Just as we're talking about injustice, a lack of intelligence, a lack of patience, a decade from now, I'm afraid there's going to be talk of a painting like this, and it's going to be said that instead of investigating corruption claims, they're wanted to be covered up. For this, the lobby was fabricated, the interior and the outer altars were called, the gangs were called, the opposition was accused of treason. Society has been misled. The sense of justice has been damaged, and the country has lost time. And it's not because of traitors, it's because of lack of insight, it's because of mismanagement, it's because it's a dangerous thing to say, so that Turkey doesn't lose the feeling that we're sustaining it, because it's a dangerous thing to say. Tomorrow, the people of this country, like Nazim Hikmet, are the national shoeboxes, but your safes are home, yes, I am a traitor! [[From the CHP rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Dear lawmakers, it cannot be called democracy in a country where every opponent is glued to the label, without transparency, without whomever it touches, where corruption claims cannot be investigated, without law. A regime where freedom of information, the press, the Internet, is restricted and censored cannot be called democracy. With the bans, I've done it. If it's reached by logic, it's reached only by an authoritarian regime. Those who deserve such a regime are doomed to lose eventually, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0304par0253	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in the 27th article, which I will read and process together.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0305par0257	We're withdrawing our motion, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0304par0258	Well, then, since the motion is drawn up by the motion, we'll proceed with one motion. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-seventh of the current bill of law. We request that the item be removed from the text. Haydar Akar İzzet Çetin Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayadın Sakine Öz Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0306par0267	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0304par0268	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0307par0269	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0304par0270	Mr. Sakine Öz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0308par0273	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the 27th amendment of the bill. I salute you all. This bill, as quoted by opposition lawmakers, is a product of guilt rush, forcing each other to discuss completely irrelevant issues; it has largely excluded the true demands and expectations of our society, focused on censoring the corruption and bribery scandal; it has tried to establish an illegal network in our country -- 40 million Internets, 32 million Facebook users, 12 million Twitter users -- that will not achieve its goal; it has used information access to prevent social resistance associated with social media. This bill, based on arbitrary censorship, does not allow the Protection of Personal Data Law to be put on the agenda of parliament, but violates the privacy of private life in complete violation of pirated legislation, plugs opponents virtually. This bill was forced to discuss the subcommittee's proposals that violated Parliamentary Council. 26 laws already under law last year have been offered again by some MPs who have not followed the House. For the sake of Internet censorship, 22 articles on different issues already exist in the bill have been rewritten by some MPs, including Internet censorship clauses. A very limited portion of the 125-point bill concerns women, disabled people, children; employees' rights are feared to step up for staff demand. The state that takes our children out of school, lowers the age of working dangerous jobs with regulations, should answer for this scandal to our child, who was dragged behind a motorcycle by its boss because he didn't go to work at Muğla Fethiye. Members of parliament, there is no step in this bill to ease the pain of our young girls, who are forced to get married at an early age, whose life has been turned upside down, and are called children's brides. The bill is far from being burdened by a child's home and spouse, avoiding rape, oppression, and discrimination during the school year. TÜİK data gives the number of girls married at the age of children 180,000, but it does not include religious weddings and unreported co-existence. Of every 100 girls, 20 have been married between 10 and 14 years of age, 36 have been married between 15 and 18 years of age, and the application for a trial has increased by 90 per cent. Half the marriages under the age of 18 are among our illiterate children. Out of every 100 marriages, 35 are from among our children who can no longer go to school, even though they can read. In the name of goods, property, and the continuation of the lineage, relatives under the age of 18 are based on 40 percent. When we don't want our children to age early, this bill... a little while ago, Minister Aysenur said that I didn't say that. I didn't say that. In the end, families understand that because of their early marriage. Minister, have you ever looked at a picture of our 14-year-old daughter, Destiny, who was killed in Siirt Pervari? Mr. Ayþenur, do you think he looked 14 years old with Destiny on him? How long will the government wait, when we are forced to be mothers and sisters to their babies in the age of playing with toy brides, who are basically sexually abused, raped, and deviant, whose so-called tradition and tradition have been exposed to open oppression and discrimination? Mr. Secretary, when are you going to take a step that will not confuse the innocence of the institution of marriage with the destruction caused by child marriage? With these questions, I salute the High Council with the desire to discuss the laws that focus on the real problems of our society, if you've listened to me.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0309par0280	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 28th Amendment. We propose that the statement "By the Ministry of Finance" in its Article be replaced as "a positive view of the Ministry of Finance." Sakine Öz Aydın Agha Ayadın Haydar Akar İzzet Cetin Musa Pine Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature shall be changed to the subsidiary of Article 28 of Article 28 (1620) which stipulates to add additional clauses to Law 2828. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Law Bill 524 be changed as follows. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz The following temporary clause has been added to Law 28, 2828. THE monthly net allowance, which will be paid in 2014 under Article 11 of this Law, is one fourth of the current net minimum wage on the day it is paid. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0310par0307	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0309par0308	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0311par0309	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0309par0310	Adana MP Mr. Ali Halaman will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0312par0312	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, while offering my respect and love, we have a motion for the amendment of Article 28 of Law Bill 524, which is about increasing maintenance fees. Therefore, since the maintenance costs are low, we want to increase. This law is 125 articles and is called the law of Torba. Of course, there's been a lot of law before that. In fact, the subject of this law is the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The reason politics exists is because of social politics. The General Directorate of the Former Child Protective Services Agency, the General Directorate of Social Aids, is now becoming the Ministry with a decree under law. The structure of this Ministry seems to have been replaced by regulations, creating new directorates abroad, forming new chiefs in the country, creating a new employment area. This ministry usually uses money from 25 to 30 billion annual budgets. He aims to improve society's social standards with the money he uses; he usually does it through the network of governorship, subsidiary, Mukhtar and NGOs. So, while these are their political practices, when I go to my hometown, from time to time, or our constituency environments, it's more like this is how I remember the Ministry of Social Policy in front of the Farm Bank, in front of the governorships, in front of the governorships, in front of NGOs, in front of NGOs -- as milk money, as maintenance money -- when I see people who help us out there -- when I see people saying, "Mr., the disabled, the needy, the needy, this is how I remember the Ministry of Social Policy in charge of the family. So, everywhere we go, we give you, we give you a car, we give you a wheelchair, isn't that enough? Shut up, shut up. As we say, we are witnessing such events. I hope that, although this Ministry of Social Policy seems to have been active for two years, we have a chance to see ritual killings, women's murders, thinners, under-the-bridge children multiply in every square inch of society.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0313par0316	You've got it wrong, you've got it wrong, sir!
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0312par0317	Because this government has removed adultery, eliminated adultery; after ignoring it, this Department of Social Policy, responsible for the family, is most likely trying to solve it through families, divorces, more at the gates of the courthouse. You, before that, why did you propose to me as the Ministry of Social Policy to rule out adultery as a felony? So again, this bag is called tax safety, so it seems to be privatizing tax collection. Yeah, one third of this country, you can't collect taxes, you can't collect electricity money, you can't collect water money, you can't discuss your trade, your politics as a state, and lately I'm going to trade with Iran. You've brought the government into this. Your unregistered trade, the economy, has surfaced, and you have undermined the prestige of our country. What right do you have to expose social policies in other places where you can't get water money by collecting taxes for people we call the West People of this country, the Anado people we call Anado? So, due to the fact that this bill is on top of the name, I don't think it's appropriate, but despite everything, I wish the great Turkish nation well.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0314par0321	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 524 Numbered Bill of Legislature shall be changed to the subsidiary of Article 28 of Article 28 (1620) which stipulates to add additional clauses to Law 2828. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0315par0328	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0314par0329	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0316par0330	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0314par0331	I'm reading the reason: According to the number of indicators in the bill, the amount of money to be made in the face of labour is a funny fee around 120 lira. This figure clearly means nothing in Turkey's terms. In Turkey, where the poverty limit is 3,580 lira and the hunger limit is £1,99, it is clear that this number will not even pay for the lowest level of labor, according to labour unions' data. The aim of making amends is to make amends at a minimum of these contradictions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 28th Amendment. We propose that the statement "By the Ministry of Finance" in the article be changed to "as long as the Ministry of Finance has a positive opinion." Sakine Öz (Manisa) and her friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0317par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0314par0341	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0318par0342	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0314par0343	Mr. Sakine Öz will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0319par0346	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by making a call to my words: Our 3.5-year-old Manisaite child Hope Yunus Emrem is waiting for a proper bone marrow transplant at a hospital in Antalya. With his dear father and mother, we have a call for you: We demand that the marrow found in Belgium be completed quickly, in order to hope for Hope, from Mr. Health Minister Mehmet Müezzinoglu. We call on all the authorities immediately to be born with hope, to be found with proper marrow. Hope has reached us, but I want to make the same calls to many of our children who have no chance like Hope. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there is no regulation in this bill that will prevent the murder of 237 women in 2013. In this bill, there is no arrangement to punish women's murder and children's marriages as severely as possible, to increase their protection measures. Despite our proposals for law in parliament, politics, which does not act, which does not listen to the warnings of women's organisations, officially invites women to violence. The state, which has not protected 25 women who have been killed despite the decision to protect them, has a share in that responsibility. The AKP's government is responsible for a reduction in the punishment of the wife who killed my unguarded Akhhisar citizen, Fethiye Gökçen. The burden of the Remembrance is on you, and of the Holy Rifleeer, and of Gülcan Çelen, and of all the women who were threatened by the violence of Nebiah, and of all the women who were killed by the violence of men. In preventing divorce, the government, who uses the tradition as an excuse to see and create a climate of violence for women, when it comes to giving women employment, education, and life rights, when we bring in a proposal for a woman's birth loan, it becomes silent. Minister Aysenur, I would like to ask Islam again from here: I have been a pioneer and offered the law to lend birth to thousands of women who have been waiting for us. Now, it's your turn. When are you going to bring our debt bill to Parliament? When are you going to settle this issue in the General Assembly when the issue is being discussed in the press? Madam Secretary, we're way behind in gender inequality. We need healthy data to solve the problems of women and children in cities and villages, but the government doesn't have that information right now. What kind of organization will you set up to collect reliable and detailed data at the local level of the province and local government by overcoming general information at the regional level? Minister, when unemployment, violence, child and disability care, housing, participation in the labour force, the need for a day-to-day care, average income, raising senior executives, fertility, shelter, education problems, while we, in many provinces and local governments, have not established a network of collective information and management networks, how are you going to work in line with our problems when there are no detailed data in front of us? Mr. Secretary, without employment, political accession is dull. After a document from the courses that women take, employment and participation in life are a big problem, but what kind of work will you do to remove these certificates from being a document collection and convert them into jobs and accession to politics? What are you going to do for women's employment and entrepreneurs when the microcredit is unfortunately not being done regularly in your Ministry to track down how many women who have difficulty keeping their jobs after receiving these loans? What concrete initiatives will you make for the adoption of a gender-sensitive budget into the Constitution? With this question and thought, I salute you all with the hope that there will be a Ministry that will take the woman who is a social space, the disabled, the elderly, and our children to her center.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0357	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-nineth of the Common Legislature. We propose that the term "six months" in the article be changed to "four months." Haydar Akar Aydın Agha Ayadın Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Musa Pine İzzet Cetin
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0321par0369	We're pulling our motion.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0370	One of the motions has been drawn, so we'll proceed through two motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 29 of the Act 29 of the Law Proposal to change the amendment to some Law and Law Act 524, which is currently in session, until the following regulations are adopted, I propose and propose that the statement be removed from the bill. İdris Bauken Ibrahim Binici Iron Steel Bengi Star Hasip Tiger Fair Zozani Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0322par0378	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0379	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0323par0380	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0381	I'm reading the reason: The existing provisions expressed in the article are often not implemented. There are problems in practice rather than against the law. Therefore, all arrangements to be made have been determined to make radical changes. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-nineth of the Common Legislature. We propose that the term "six months" in the article be changed to "four months." Ali Özgündüz (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0324par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0391	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0325par0392	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0320par0393	İstanbul MP Ali will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0326par0395	They didn't.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0327par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, well, they don't, so we need to talk. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. This substance abuse, alcohol abuse and drug abuse treatment centers that I've just talked about are a serious problem. Like I said, our young people are actually on the edge of a cliff, so we have a very serious drug-addicted teenager between the ages of 12 and 18. Since these treatment centres are not enough, public hospitals are not enough, they are being purchased from some private hospitals. But what I know, what I know, what I know, what I see, is really painful; in some rooms, a couple of patients are asked to be treated in a bed, depending on bunk beds, and unfortunately, we pay for it, we pay for it in budgets, these private hospitals. So, as I said, this is about the future of all of us. Also, young 18-year-olds with no social security can't get treatment, so the treatment of these young people isn't free, Mr. Lawmakers. It's a big deal, isn't it? The substance is that these drug addicts need to be treated for free, but they need to be admitted to society, which unfortunately is not done. Social welfare is a place in the institutions of solidarity, and we ask for help for those who have reached us, but it is not our concern. Families are in trouble, families can't take care of their children, so the social state of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey, must take care of these young people, these children. Mr. Secretary, let the bridge, the road, the park, the garden, I think you should spend the budget to get these kids back into society for treatment. Youth is probably more important than the future, the bridge, the road, the park, the garden. As a matter of fact, that park, the garden, and the bridge are causing trouble. Some of our ministers are getting suspicious. So I think it would be more useful if we moved the budget here. Many of our children, our drug-addicted child, unfortunately commit suicide, engage in various crimes in the streets, even to attack their parents. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about a matter in the judiciary today. I'm afraid two prosecutors, who made this December 17th investigation, decided to arrest their children, or, rather, demanded, were laid off today. This is the cover picture of one of our friend's cellphones -- what do we call it -- the screen picture that we put on this cover, although it's special, was somehow captured and published in a newspaper. The front side of our friend's room, the entrance, is monitored privately by the courthouse's security cameras, and it is said that the officer watching this camera is MSI personnel. Now, MIT, of course, is not a special intelligence unit; the MIT is not a special intelligence agency of the Prime Minister, but an intelligence unit of the state. If this way, the judge, the prosecutors' privacy, the projectors will turn on them, believe me, this state is no longer a state of law, it's another state. Our Constitution says that the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular and social law state. It is the ministry's first duty to execute the state of social law, the ministry's first duty to which we are currently negotiating the law of the agency. So, at least I salute all of you, young people who are our future, with the idea that their education and treatment will be more important. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0328par0405	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 29 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There are two motions in Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 30 of the current bill. We would like to change the terms of the matter to the owner of the need. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu chooses Vahab Musa Çam Mustafa Serdar Soydan Veli Ağbaba Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 30 of the current Law Bill 524 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Mehmet Günal Emin Çınar Ali Öz Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0329par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0328par0423	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0330par0424	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0331par0425	Emin Çınar, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0328par0426	Mr. Emin Çınar, the MP of Kastamon, will speak on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0332par0429	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on behalf of the National Party of Movement on the 30th article of the Law Bill 524 rows under discussion. I salute your high council. On Sunday (January 26th) at the opening of the Istanbul Election Co-ordinating Centre in Esenyurt, a group attacked our friends in the election office with stones, sticks, knives, and long barrel, a friend of ours lost his life. This foul attack on our party, condemns the people who did it with hate, with curse, and the death of our fellow Genghis Akyıld, who died in this vile attack, with mercy, I pray to his grieving family, those who love him, and for all our grateful community. I have no faith that the great Turkish nation will be judged and punished in the face of unsurpassable justice, by not getting away with the actions of these traitors, who lie in wait with their dirty, bloody hands, who attack, who break order and order, who corrupt the peace of our nation, who sow the seeds of hypocrisy among the people, who corrupt our country. Dear lawmakers, the dark clouds over our country are constantly rising, and our country is drifting quickly towards the darkness. The only responsibility for the dark clouds above our country is the politics followed by the Justice and Development Party. The AKP, the symbol of its light, has been pushing Turkey into darkness, rather than light in 11 years. In 11 years, our country has neither improved nor our people have been able to meet justice. As a matter of fact, the AKP, a master at dark and darkening, has once again proven its mastery by turning corruption into a professional blackness. And to protect those who commit corruption, and to establish justice. The AKP's cover has been blown, and the facts have come to light one by one. Dear lawmakers, the conditions of life in our country are getting harder and harder, and our citizen's livelihood is increasing. In 11 years, our country has become poor, our people have put their hopes on welfare. Our employees can't live off their wages. In our country, where the hunger limit is 1,065 liras, the minimum wage is around $850, which makes sense and makes sense. In 11 years, power has failed to bring justice to the revenue distribution, a gap between our citizens. In 11 years, our citizens have been endeavored to adapt to the culture of alms. Where employment will be increased, our people have been made needy and poor. Our beloved nation, driven into debt, driven into darkness, will not forget what they have done, but one day they will surely answer for it. The 30th article of the legislation we are discussing envisions the change of the word "necessary" in Law 2828. Such an arrangement will not reduce poverty, nor will it increase the income of our employees, nor will it benefit our needy citizens. The word "need" does not exist in Law 2828, but is used in many laws. In this law alone, changing the word "property" will cause confusion with other laws. If a change is to be made, it would be more appropriate to review and redesign all laws that have been passed. Instead of these changes, the government should focus on policies that will reduce poverty in our country; they should produce policies that will provide jobs for young people and open jobs for them. Work must be done to increase prosperity in our country, and instead of bragging about the size of the benefits, the effort to establish a system where people are forced to help. Unfortunately, however, the bill that we are discussing will bring nothing for our poor citizens, nor will it reduce poverty, nor will income bring justice. With this bill passed, poverty will not end in our country, there will not be a fair distribution of revenues, social benefits will not be distributed evenly, the number of people applying to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will not decrease. In our country, where nearly 25 million of our citizens have applied to state institutions for help, there will be no end to living with this law, no increase in prosperity, and our nation will not be at peace. I look forward to your support for this amendment motion we've made, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0333par0438	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 30 of the current bill. We would like to change the terms of the matter to the owner of the need. Mustafa Serdar Soydan (Chanakkale) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0334par0445	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0333par0446	Government?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0335par0447	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0336par0448	Mr. Soydan...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0333par0449	Çanakkale MP Mr. Serdar Soydan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0337par0452	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to Article 30 of Bill 524. My respects to all of you. As a bag of laws, many provisions that regulate matters that have nothing to do with each other are forced to vote within a single bill, which is also imposed on parliament as a fundamental law. The AKP is destroying the state of law and democracy by removing Parliament from its normal course with the bag of laws it needs more and more every day. It is important to ask those who intend to live in social policies that will regulate the lives of families, elderly, disabled, and in need of care: Why do you add regulations concerning our disabled and underprivileged citizens to the tender law, the use of the Internet and the Anadolu Agency? What's your hurry, what's your hurry? Is this a rush of fear and despair? Members of the judiciary, police and military have been unable to perform their duties freely in the new Turkey you created. Those who attempt to perform their duties freely are subject to the pressures and threats of the Minister and the Undersecretary himself. With the money hidden in the shoeboxes, the safes in the houses, and the counting machines, you created a new echo. Your bank manager brought home millions of dollars, as if a bank vault was the general manager's house. After the Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases, the police department you awarded after the Travel Park, writes history. You have declared the members of the judiciary your archenemy, you have made a parallel state. And then, as the head of the administration, as Prime Minister for 11 years, you said there were gangs in court and security. Where were you when the gang and the parallel government were formed? Where were the Prime Minister of this country, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior, what were they doing? If your claim is true, you're the one who allowed a gang to form and spread to institutions and organizations. So, as Prime Minister, you're the one who neglected the mission and allowed the state to form a parallel state, and you're responsible. You say there's a gang. You say there's a parallel state, there's an external conspiracy. You say there's no corruption, but you can't say there's no corruption. Your 18-day Minister of Justice is being held for obstruction of justice. The Minister of Justice does not have the courage to send a statement against himself or other ministers to Parliament. You're deposed of the judicial party who initiated the investigation into corruption and bribery. What are you afraid of? What's all the fuss, what's all the mistrust? On the day of your Home Secretary's appointment, let everyone do their job. Despite his testimony, the Minister himself took hundreds of law enforcement officers from his post and moved them. I mean, Mr. Secretary himself prevents law enforcement from doing their job. Why, on what grounds did you do it? What is the crime of those who have been relieved and replaced? What are these people's crimes? Parallel state, gang, conspiracy, or outside altars; who they serve, what crimes, you have to explain and do what you have to do. Mr. Prime Minister has to identify and hand over his gang leaders and members to the judiciary rather than call out to the public at political rallies and meetings. You can't be a victim anymore, you're just a victim. Is there anyone you've investigated on charges of having taken off the force and replaced members of the law and justice? He has to explain this, Mr. Prime Minister. Otherwise, after December 17th, all his claims will remain in the air, which, as he put it, would have fooled the public. Mr. Lawmakers, will the horse take the seat and cross the line? You've got this nation's ass, and you keep taking it. My respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit07spe0338par0464	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th Session of the 54th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 524. The commission is here. The government is here. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers Articles 31 to 55. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Part Two, Kahramanmarash...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0008	Mr. President, we're not going to give a speech, but I'd like to make a point.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0009	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0010	Sir, Article 32 is now added to the fourth clause of Article 17 of the Law on Values of Added Tax and referred to as Article 5/B of the Law on Taxes. There is no Article 5/B at this time, and there is no Article 5/B of the Tax Act. So how do we get this into another law about something that doesn't exist? In the following part of this law, Article 5/B is committed, but you have to appreciate that there are no conditions to discuss the motions and the clauses. Therefore, before this is discussed, the matter must be adopted and then dictated into another law. There's no Section 5/B right now.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0011	Let's talk about that for a minute.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0012	In the third chapter after that, Section 5/B is being neglected. In that sense, you have to do it after you've done it.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0013	I think the Minister will make a statement about that.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0340par0014	Mr. President, in terms of law technique, Section 5/B will be subject to Article 82.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0015	It will be, but it won't depend on the condition, sir. So, we're going to be taking something that's not within the law when it's being edited here, and there's no clause 5/B. In that respect, since it's conditional, it's the only way it's possible to do so after your addiction.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0016	What do you suggest, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0017	That's not true in terms of law-enforcement.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0018	What do you suggest?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0019	Look, from now on, when we're making these arrangements, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will now be invoking a ruling on a clause that has no will. What if he rejects the next one?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0341par0020	We'll get back to that.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0021	So, what do you suggest? Shall we take a break?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0022	No, no, you don't have to take a break. From now on, such substances must be committed after the breach.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0023	Be more careful, all right.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0024	Otherwise, according to the law code, the number of the law is this long ago, so let's put it first. It's not right to make an arrangement. First the will of the House will be revealed, then the other deregulation.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0342par0025	I mean, that's not gonna happen. Let's leave it for tomorrow, Mayor. An interview about a substance that doesn't exist? What happens if he gets rejected tomorrow?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0026	Mr. Vural, there is an explanation that the articles in the bill were created based on the dates of the law itself. That's why what you said happened.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0027	But it's wrong, sir.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0028	But it's on the record. From now on...
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0029	The infraction, I mean, that's completely wrong. You can't bring a particular subject to its core, so let's do it first, and then we'll forgive it. Is that a thing? You're putting up a mortgage on the will of the House.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0030	They say the law goes by the date.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0031	Before the House decides?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0032	That's why something like this happened.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0033	First there's the envy, then there's the after.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0034	But, of course, what you said was on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0339par0036	I mean, this can't be an app.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0338par0037	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Mr Vahab Sefer will speak. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Chosener, you have a ten-minute deadline on behalf of the group and a five-minute speech on behalf of the individual. So, you've been talking for 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0343par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the second part of Bill 524. I mean, really, it's a bag of laws, a freak, and our legislature activities here are just another freak. One and a half, two of the night, I'm going to tell 30 of the MPs here, the second chapter, between Article 31 and Article 55 of the Commission. Now, we think we're actually doing business here, we're fooling each other. Indeed, this Parliament is bankrupt; it is bankrupted by lawmaking techniques, by its work on the commission, by its informal state in Parliament. My phone is full of messages from agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, water products engineers today. Mr. Mehdi Eker was just here. I'm here -- I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry -- I'm not a stakehead, I'm not a parliamentary worker here. Now, I'm going to pass on these children's demands -- this is a social demand, a right demand -- to the Minister, and the Minister is gone, you've sent away, you've sent all your friends. What kind of government do I have here? What are you trying to do? Turn it off, please. We'd continue tomorrow, we'd draw 3-5 motions, and we'd still be in agreement. But, despite our insistence, let's keep going, let's keep going, shall we? I mean, we're not your prisoners, we're not your prisoners, okay? This is a serious nerve, I'm not acting here. There are 30 MPs. Could there be a sense of law enforcement? Now, let's get back to the subject, and let's address the empty seats. The government will take 74,000 personnel. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has 6,000 demands in the State Staff Office. During budget talks, we delivered this problem to the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture throws the ball to the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance throws it to the President of State Staff. On the other hand, these people are always trying to shout out to us through social media, telephones, faxes, text messages, and I'm saying this problem through my 30 fellow MPs. Part two, Articles 31 through 55, actually, my other orator friends have revealed this bag of laws. If there are arrangements for the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... the opposition of power, my friends from BDP to AKP, all of my fellow lawmakers, if there is an arrangement for my sister's ministry, I think this lady will take a positive stand. What's this about, the service area of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the field of duty? Children, parents, women, disabled, disadvantaged groups -- who, let alone the parliamentary speaker, each person gives a positive view of the situation in order to provide them with better opportunities, help, and improve their living conditions. But then the total, I think, has changed the rule of law, over 40, and with the executive clause, 125 articles have been reached. There are issues that concern the current Minister's Ministry, there are issues that concern the Public Relations Agency, there are issues of the Ministry of Transport on the Internet, there are issues of the Ministry of Technology, there are jobs of the Dianet Foundation, there are issues of the Ministry of Health. Now, I'm going to try to rephrase the views of the Republican People's Party on a number of articles that we discussed in particular in these 25 articles. See the arrangements for the highways of Articles 31 and 39. Amen, okay, no problem, but Mr. Aslanoglu and Mr. Sesam spoke during the day session, and there was this issue at the Commission talks, and the Minister of the Commission promised that the work would be done on this matter and that this bill would be met with a motion if necessary. Is that so, Mr. Aslanoglu?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0344par0048	Exactly.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0343par0049	Now, this K1 document issue is a very troubling issue. I'm a trucker's shop, I'm a driver's shop, I'm getting a K1, I'm paying the same price; on the other hand, I have a logistics firm, I have a logistics boss, I have 500 vehicles, I'm paying the same price. It's not fair or I have a K1 document, I sold my truck to another friend, and he's dying. Alan, my friend, pays a second price, the same driver's shop has to get a K1 document. This is really the social class, which is the most lawful in Turkey, and you all know it. These people are trying to earn their children bread by night, by day, by safety, by sweat. I believe we'll bring this before you with a motion on the 60th or 62th Amendment. In Article 38, there is an additional clause in the Basic Law of Health Services, which is a clear issue. Now, if a foreign national, Syrian, Lebanese, Yemeni, Belgian, Afghani, Foreign Ministry and Health Ministry, or the Ministry of Health, who are seeking treatment, can come and receive health care in that regard, and are also permitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Their road costs are paid, their housing costs are paid here, and these people get a chance to be treated in health department hospitals and public universities. It can be seen as a human condition. Now, during these discussions, let's make it clear that the cost is being paid by the Public Hospitals Association. During the discussions, we told the concerned Ministry of Health bureaucrat: "What is this substance, what does it bring, and what does it take?" He did not give us any reasonable statement. Obviously, he doesn't know what he's talking about, obviously there's a legal arrangement going on, but the department's bureaucrat doesn't know about it. This is from abroad, you know, our family members, you know, in the Turkish republics, in the Balkans, in Cyprus, in the Middle East, in the Turkmen and so on. He said, "Yes, if they don't have social security in any case, we'll meet these demands." Another bureaucrat friend of ours said, "No, foreign nationals are in it." I mean, bureaucrats don't know each other. The bureaucrats, the Ministry, they don't know what they're bringing in, what they're taking in. Now, we're asking, and we're saying, "Well, is this based on a reciprocity? What are the criteria for this?" There's no answer. Our Manisa MP just mentioned our son, Mr. Oz, who's expecting a bone marrow transplant. He asked for help from here, and Belgium will receive treatment. Hope was our patient's name, our child's name. Now, if Hope's family made such a request from the Belgian government, they would say: I have no social security in Turkey. O government of Belgium, my child will die, he needs a bone marrow transplant. Now, this is an argument. Also, look, we're always saying, thank God, now that the issue of Syria has fallen off the agenda, the third agenda, even the agenda. The Prime Minister began his every speech with Syria. In the group talk with Syria at a meeting on any... economics with Syria, foreign relations with Syria, the press conferences with Syria, Assad; Syria, Assad. Now, thankfully, Assad was saved, and so were the Middle East, and so were the people of Turkey. But I can think of one question. We, there... look, 1 million refugees from the last United Nations came to Turkey from Syria. We can all accept it through human emotion, there's nothing wrong with that. There really is a fire in our neighbor. What caused the fire? Turkey's error in this sense is foreign policy... 100 percent wrong foreign policy, a foreign policy without a solid side, I will not enter into it. The majority of these refugees were women and children, and indeed the victims, dozens of people died. More than a million refugees went to neighbouring Jordan, not just Turkey. Well, good, let's make it possible for us to set up camps -- that's my constituency of the Mediterranean -- where people live, where they work -- okay, let's approach them with real human emotion, but on the other hand, there are terrible allegations. In Turkey, the blood spilled... who? Assad forces and the Free Syrian Army. Two sides: the Free Syrian Army on one side, the Assad regime on the other. The government of Turkey delivered weapons to them, supported logistics, supported money. Even the deaf sultan heard it, and even the deaf sultan in Egypt heard it. Turkey's media, international media have always done this. Well, the terrorists fighting there are Al Qaeda, depending on that, El Nusra. Terrorists were injured, where did he come for his treatments? That's what the deaf sultan in Egypt hears. There were sub-stairs health organizations created, hospitals created, and these were made in secret. So, with this legal arrangement again, is there something going on with these things? Who are they? What are their criteria? It's a troubled substance. Article 42 is an amendment to the unemployment insurance Act. Basically, it's about our mentally and mentally disabled citizens who work here in protected businesses, who can't be put into the labour market. Amen, there's no problem. Let their unemployment benefits be paid by the state as part of the employer. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has a budget, so let it be paid from there, or something else, but you bring it in and you get the unemployment benefit fund, and as you think about it, it's taken it somewhere, like this, and a whole world of money's been piling up here, near 70 billion euros, that's what it's been collecting since the year 2000.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0345par0055	Where's the money?
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0343par0056	This was used out of context. It's in the Court reports, too. Look, it's said to have been spent around $12 billion on the GAP project. But what's the point of the unemployment fund? Brother, you can use this money to fight unemployment. Here, we have unemployed people, you can give them unemployment benefits. You can support active labor force programs. You can use these. It's called. Now, basically, of course, let's make a difference to the disabled, to the disadvantaged groups, to the positive discrimination, to do whatever it takes. It's a question of logic, which we discussed. Let's support this place, transfer money wherever you want, but the government must withdraw from the unemployment fund. Now, Minister -- I just said in my speech -- the Minister of Family and Social Policy, of all groups, it's really -- of course, because of your area of service, because of the position of our citizens in the service area, it's actually a very sacred business. Look, we're reminiscent of corruption, especially the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, your Ministry, I hope -- we've never heard of it, our friend before, our brother before, has done valuable services, and so will you -- it's not called corruption. Turkey must get rid of them, Turkey must clean its bowels, Turkey must be 21st century Turkey. Woe to him who scorns the orphan, Look, you became Minister on December 26th, but there have been a lot of problems with your Ministry from that day forward. Women's murders continue: Look, on January 27th, on January 26th. Again -- a suicide or a murder -- I think he's in the process of investigating -- there's a child bride suicide in Van. These are matters that concern you. Under state protection, girls have been harassed, forced into prostitution, arrested, in your Ministry of Opium children's homes. That's the truth. This is your Ministry and yours, and what really makes us think about things that have occurred during your time as Minister. Istanbul, December 30, 2013 -- three days after you became the new Minister -- women who were sold by prostitution gangs at the women's shelter; these were in the press, and are now in the judicial stage. Indeed, in Turkey, women, children, disadvantaged groups, disabled groups; we have many problems. And of course, we support your ministry very much, so just do your best in good faith. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-01-29sit08spe0346par0063	[[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Chosen. The talks on chapter two are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
