tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There are enough meetings, we're going to talk. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are two statements about the extradition of the bill, and I'm having it read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: a) dated 15/6/2007 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. Article 10/101-1374-2557. B) dated 22/9/2011 and B. 02. 0. KKG/101-30/2991. I would like to request that the International Convention on the Editing of Balinism and Joining the Protocol be sent back under Article 75, according to Article 75, under which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is admissible. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 17/4/2014 and 31853594-101-951-1871. I would like to ask that the Court of the Republic of Turkey and the Court of State of Norway, which has been submitted to you in addition to our relevant writing, be sent back to Article 75% of the Turkish National Assembly's Article, under which "Construction on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Norway and the Energy Area of Norway, is eligible for ratification of the Covenant Act." The bills from the Foreign Affairs Commission have been restored. There's a motion for resignation in the parliamentary inquiry commission, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of Parliamentary Investigation Commission 9/8 where I've been elected. With all due respect, I do. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation: I'm having it read, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A professor at the Faculty of Communication at the University of Marmara University has filed a criminal complaint against the Dean of Communication at the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office at the University of Marmara University, and has stated that the dean wanted to intervene in the examinations by giving him two lists and that some students wanted to take the test, while others did not, and that the dean did not have any personal security because he provoked the country's students against him. In a prestigious scientific institution such as the university, we offer and propose the necessary opening of parliamentary research on the 98th, the 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution in order to ensure that negative events such as ideological tagging and tagging do not occur again and that the reasons and how to avoid this event be investigated. The level of development of a country is proportional to the level of education in that country. Development at the level of education also determines the fate of that country. Given Turkey's young and dynamic population, it is essential that university environments are suited to this structure in order to be in line with the modern education system. In Turkey, education policies so far have shaken youth's credibility with university institutions, and students have been raised to have a more concerned view, rather than having a free view of one of the most fundamental measures of science. Education policies have also led to the dissolution and organisation of youth. A single type of youth is being raised that is unprovoked, unscientific, unscientific, test-centered, marketistic and ideological education is not being questioned, critically thought-free, opposed to injustices. In order to create one type of youth, there was not only social engineering on education policies, but also social engineering on university staffs. In order to create an unquestioning and memorizing youth, universities have often tried to choose graduates and PhDs in their own ideology rather than in scientific criteria, and have shown an ideological attitude toward many students in order to achieve it. As a matter of fact, in Turkey's recent history, such examples have been reflected in the media. Students and professors who oppose such policies in universities face serious pressures and antidemocratic attitudes of university administrations. Prior to AKP rule, there were various ideological, oppressive tagging or taggings in the context of policies such as suppressive and monosymmetrical in university institutions, and many politicians, students and professors who were then known for their proximity to the current AKP's power were very close to it. For the past ten years, the AKP government has continued to systematically tag students and professors in the context of meditative policies aimed at resolving one type, although the AKP government has appeared to oppose such oppressive policies that occurred during previous administrations. As a matter of fact, M.U. has been reported in the press on 06/08/2012. Professor of the Faculty of Communication. Dr. Ezde Yilmaz's İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, M.U. The Dean of Communication School, Yusuf Devran, has filed a criminal complaint against him, and Dean Yusuf Devran has reportedly given him two lists and made an ideological-based labeling or tagging, leaving a number of students trying to win the exam, while others wanting to intervene in order not to win, leaving various markers beside the names on the list. Gözde Yilmaz also stated that there is no safety in life because the dean has provoked the country's students against him and threatened him. What has happened has shown us that these ideologically-based tagging or tagging events conducted by many professors at university institutions in Turkey are one of the negative consequences of educational policies aimed at suppressing, memorizing, memorizing and monotypes. We offer the General Assembly's appreciation for the reasons and the necessary measures to investigate the reasons for this branding at the University of Marmara so that there will be no more plugs against students and professors at university institutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There is no doubt that the institution of marriage is highly sacred to the Turkish community. In recent years, however, the age of marriage has continued to rise in our country and the rate of never getting married and the rate of divorce has increased rapidly. No doubt the most important reason for the continued rise of the age of marriage can be considered an increase in education. However, the fact that our young ones never get married is a fact that they want to live a lonely life. Again, it is remarkable that divorce rates in our married couples have increased rapidly in recent years. The data released by the TİK confirms that divorce rates in Turkey are rapidly increasing. The number of couples divorced in Turkey increased by 2010 in 2011. He's reached 117. 40.2 per cent of divorces take place within the first five years, while 24.1 per cent take place in 16 years and above. The divorce rate averages 20% in Turkey. Although this rate is changing regionally, divorce of one of the five married couples has become a very important social problem. Every marriage that ends often leads to psychological problems in common children rather than to affect the life of a divorced couple. In order to determine the increasing divorce rates and grounds, to determine the problems facing the couples and the common children, and to determine the solution proposals for the Constitution, the 98th, the 104th, and 105th Articles of the Civil Code, I propose that Parliament be opened. [[Bolu]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 6) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 19) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 20) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 23) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 26) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 27) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The KPSS 2012 exam, held on 7/7/2012, drew hundreds of thousands of young people into doubt, despair, and sadness, claiming that questions were distributed before the examination on Saturday morning and afternoon. The statement made by OSCE officials is far from satisfactory to public. The Twitter exchange, sent to us by victims of students, states that the Turkish questions addressed to the candidates in the examination were deciphered in the A4 paper format and in a format that had nothing to do with the exam manual. These questions are allegedly distributed by a certain congregation. These alleged distributions of the congregation have also been reflected in our press. The information was shared at 8:19 a.m. at 7/7/2012 a.m., an hour and 11 minutes before the exam, and RT by 382 people. In the same A4 Word format, the DIHA's education science exam was presented to national media, where it shared the questions with the public. Some of the examinations claimed that 90 minutes of curfew was not observed in the halls and buildings. All over Turkey, there's no clarity as to where these 90-minute rules have been followed and where they haven't been followed. It is also alleged that his search for the upper hand was not fully and equally applied. For all these reasons, the illusion of copying is getting stronger in the exam. The SNS press release claimed that the questions were memorized by those who took the exam and were written after exiting the exam building, but the test period was 120 minutes. 120 minutes is not a time to memorize test questions until the point, and as much as the order of the answers. The fact that the White Pencil classrooms give 57 of their general cultural testing questions, that the last three questions regarding current issues are not written, and that under the relevant brochure there is a "test 2" strengthens the claims. Some news reports also claim that questions can be photographed by phone on the exam. In such exams, the application manual and the examination entry documents show that they have not been followed by the most important rules in which the examination will be cancelled if it is not followed. In which examination buildings across Turkey, which exam hall, which district contains serious questions as to which key rule has been observed. As a result, all of these matters are not enough explanations from the OSD. The allegations of organized copy also violate the principle of equality in Article 10 of our Constitution as well as the results of a serious crime. According to Article 10 of our Constitution, "Everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, sect, and so on. State bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their operations in front of the law." FOR many years, the OSCE has served as one of the most trusted institutions in society, but the institution, which has determined the fate of millions, has recently been the target of debates and suspects with the AKP's power. Therefore, the public investigations and investigations necessary to satisfy citizens' doubts about the KPSS exams must be done immediately, and should be done in the most serious way. The best way to follow up on these allegations is by establishing a research commission at the TBMM, which will seriously investigate all public claims. In order to investigate these serious allegations, to uncover the facts, we propose that the Council be investigated according to Article 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution, which will lead to the severe victims of most of our citizens who have taken nearly 1 million trials. With all due respect. 1) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Malatya]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 15) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 22) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 23) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Hatay MP Adnan Şik Yüçük and his friends have submitted a parliamentary inquiry proposal to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Presidency by 3/12/2013 and 1233 to determine the difficulties of law enforcement members and measures to be taken in terms of their hard working conditions and their rights, to be read on Friday (July 18th 2014), and to be co-explored in the presentations of the General Assembly on Friday (July 2014), as well as in the same date of its preliminary talks. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Friday 18/7/2014 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Hatay MP A. Our parliamentary research proposal for 18/7/2014 Friday (now) has been read in the General Assembly on Friday (December 3, 2013) and on December 3, 2013, to determine the challenges and measures imposed by law enforcement members in terms of heavy working conditions and rights.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0002par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0001par0190	Mr. Vural, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0002par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, after Israel's ground operation to Gaza, you know, we made an assessment with you, and all the political parties, condemning Israel's attacks and inviting all the world's states to take precautions... in this framework, of course, we had come to an agreement... that the government, in fact -- the spirit of Israel, would want -- firstly inform the Parliament about the size and initiatives of the attacks that Israel had made, and that the political parties, by exposing their common sense of action on this matter, should have delivered it to the world's public with a statement. I mean, the government needs to be assured that the Israeli government will inform Parliament of their attacks, and in this framework, the government needs to know what the government is doing, what the nation is going to do. In that regard, before such a statement, I would like to rephrase my opinion that the government should be able to provide information to the parliamentary authorities on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0003par0198	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0004par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, when we presented the proposal for this statement yesterday, when the Parliamentary General Assembly opened today, it was extremely important for the Foreign Minister or the government to inform the General Assembly of the developments in Israel. In fact, the heart would wish that Parliament would open with this information meeting today and write a statement on which four political parties would participate, and the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to demonstrate its clear stance on Israel's brutal attacks and show solidarity with the Palestinian people throughout the world. If there is not to be any information from the government today, that is a major flaw. I believe that the hearts of all the MPs sitting here are beating with the Palestinian people in Palestine. Everyone wants to know what's going on first-hand, and he's very anxious to know what's going on. So we're repeating the call we made last night about this. In this regard, the government and the State Department must also review their current position. I mean, we made that request when the Islamic mob raided the Musul consulate and held dozens of our citizens hostage. It's been more than a month, and we're faced with an understanding that doesn't yet inform the Parliament, doesn't inform the General Assembly, and doesn't consider the will of all the people, the will of the Assembly. We find this unacceptable. We'd like to rephrase here that both the government and the State Department should be more sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0005par0205	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0006par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. We agreed together last night that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today would write and explain a statement condemning Israel's attitude because of Israel's attacks on Gaza. At the moment, work is under way on the draft of this declaration. But we also talked about one other thing last night, and we requested that Mr. Secretary of State come here and inform the General Assembly of what happened. It is vital that Mr. Foreign Minister make a brief on the issue ahead of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's statement. It's also the responsibility of management. Now, a month ago -- over a month ago -- our consulate officials in Mosul have been taken hostage by ISIS, and as a matter of high policy, Mr. Foreign Minister has not informed the General Assembly of this matter, so we are implementing a serious policy, and if we talk about it in the General Assembly, it would harm our policy. Now, will he apply the same concept here, Mr. Secretary of State? The right thing to do is to let Mr. Minister come and inform the Turkish Parliament and Turkey on this matter. We demand this as the Republican People's Party Group, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0007par0210	Yes, thank you. Mr. Günay, you have a request. On behalf of the independent MPs, please.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0008par0214	Mr. President, I've submitted to our Parliamentary President in writing today, and I'd like to submit to the General Assembly's information that international organisations are acting as heavy and ineffective as ever in this Palestinian situation, with no Muslim states or their solidarity. Turkey's more prerequisite, more effective and positive stances will be effective in both showing the importance of regional peace as well as to resolving the slowness of the world. I've made three suggestions, and I'm summing it up: Number one: Of course, a declaration is inevitable. Turkey's Grand National Assembly should have common opinions and the world should know that. Second: This is not enough, a group of MPs representing all the political parties and independent friends of Turkey must immediately leave for Gaza, meet with Palestinian and Israeli officials, try to reach a truce and make contact with the Palestinian people for the hunt for peace, declare our solidarity with the Palestinian people and our call for peace in action to the world. I remember doing an example of this for Bosnia at the end of the 90s, and I want to bring it to the General Assembly's knowledge, stressing that it was very effective. Third: Under the conditions of the ceasefire and the hunt for peace, the government of the Republic of Turkey must announce to the world that all diplomatic and economic relations with Israel have been halted and that the need for this announcement must be carried out with care. I wanted to present it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0009par0221	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you've heard the speech of the members of the group. Will the Minister make a statement or inform? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0010par0224	They're looking for our friends to contact the Secretary of State. I'll make the statement after I talk to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0009par0226	Thank you. Hatay MP Adnan Şik Yüçük and his friends have submitted a parliamentary inquiry proposal to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Presidency by 3/12/2013 and 1233 to determine the difficulties of law enforcement members and measures to be taken in terms of their hard working conditions and their rights, to be read on Friday (July 18th 2014), and to be co-explored in the presentations of the General Assembly on Friday (July 2014), as well as in the same date of its preliminary talks. [[Continue]] Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0011par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are truly sorry to hear that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been reduced. Members of the three opposition parties, the members of the group, have expressed their views on this issue. We haven't been able to find out how the ruling party's members feel about their views. Mr. Minister of National Education said he had no knowledge of the explanation -- according to him rightly. This is a sad situation for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I offer it to the Turkish nation's discretion.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0012par0238	Is that how you see it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0011par0239	Members of parliament, we welcome the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the investigation of police issues and the development of solution proposals. You know, there have been studies, conversations, group proposals. I don't know who will explain it this time, but the problem is that for 12 years, the Justice and Development Party is the same, the Police are always the same, and the Security Council will solve your problems; here you are today, tomorrow. First, the weight of the working conditions. It's known to everyone. He's been working for 60 hours, law enforcement, without all kinds of social resources, and that's a matter known to the government by the Department of Internal Affairs. For years, no measures have been taken, and in return for the extra work, no social opportunities are provided for law enforcement. Now, members of lawmakers, we must investigate this: more than 300 law enforcement officers committed suicide in your reign. We must investigate and investigate the cause of these suicides. Because it's impossible for an organization with problems within itself that can't be solved to serve people, to provide them with peace and security. So first, you need to focus on this problem and make an effort to resolve it. Gene, the police have been bringing up an additional indicator problem for years, and they say, "We deserve 3,600 additional indicators, as in the case of education, as in other public officials." Now, if you're going to say yes here, you're going to say no. That's what the lawkeepers want now. No. If you say no, say no. Tell them to give up on you. But if you say yes, do it quickly. It's been on the table for years, and you're not doing anything about it. You're giving the police missions that have nothing to do with police work. What's all this? Like passports, like traffic and notifications. And there's the protection services, the security guards, that's happening right in front of all of you. Look, these guards aren't protecting those people. You can't protect people one by one. But if you make the country and the street safe, people will live in safety, or you won't be able to maintain security in society in the way that you protect one person at a time. What are those guards doing? In front of all of you -- I don't mind saying it, but I'm sorry -- it's being used like an orderly. Dear friends, he holds a coat, carries a bag, brings a phone, etcetera. All of you need to avoid such offensive, law enforcement humiliations and actions. Look, there's this discipline issue that the cops have been working on for years, that they've been under a lot of pressure. The Security Services Disciplinary Charter has not been changed for years, and the Disciplinary Charter is given more authority than it needs. This needs to be reviewed in accordance with the principles of the state of law and not given the authority to act in such a arbitrary manner. For years there have been complaints from the High Evaluation Board and the Central Evaluation Board. For years, complaints have been raised that the decisions made by the High Evaluation Board and the Central Evaluation Board are incompatible, that are unfair, and there are no measures taken against it; complaints about it are increasing, my dear friends. Now, if you don't act objectively when you employ the staff, when you employ them, according to the reference, according to their political relationship, depending on the proximity or distance of a certain idea, according to the religion, you can't get efficiency from this organization, you're in the position you're in today. You thought you designed it your way, but then you found out it wasn't what you thought it was. Now, you're taking a detour. What are you doing? You're handing out personnel from place to place. You're reassigning the officer you assigned today to take him from there. Why? Sir, these are members of the parallel structure... My dear friends, all of these have come into service at your time, all of which have been given missions in your time. So, you two acted together then, why did you give up this app now? Now, look, we're always saying, we're saying that we don't accept a structure outside the state hierarchy within the state, but it's not an application that we'd appreciate if you'd put the members of the agency at ease, drive them from place to place, restructure them from place to place. Now, consider the events of the trip. Do you remember, when a police officer texted, you rewrote the legend of Çanakkale? What did the Prime Minister do then? He praised them. In fact, he's been rewarded, rewarded with a paycheck. And then what did you do? You sent him on another mission claiming to be a member of the parallel structure, and a newspaper from the pool media reported it as a title. What is it? Sir, the ones who burned the tents were part of the parallel structure. So, if he was a member of the parallel structure, where do we put the Prime Minister's words, my dear friends? We're running out of time now, so I'll continue. What did you do then, my dear friends? Now you're making a change in the Law on Adjudications; you're making it difficult to make a decision to stop the execution; you're not content with it; you're putting the joy of two years' absence of court decisions against the Constitution. Is that what happens in law enforcement? Everyone knows why you're doing this. Clearly, the congregation has terrified you, and in every practice we see the shadow of the congregation. Now, the main reason for this change in the law is the practice of law enforcement. Whether you deny it or not, they know it, and we know it, and you know it. My dear friends, I mean, you can't solve the problems of law enforcement with these. You'll be objective when you're on duty. You will train in accordance with the European Law on Police Ethics, and you will care about service education. You will take into account the rights of equity, you will solve it, and you will direct the hard work conditions to a more humane working condition. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0013par0256	Thank you. Oğuz Khan İksal, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0014par0260	Mr. President, as our esteemed deputies begin my words, I salute the High Council. My dear friend, who spoke before me, wondered who would speak again. Yes, I'm speaking again, I wanted to express it.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0015par0262	You're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0014par0263	Of course, I said the same thing last time I spoke, and now I'm saying the same thing. I will speak against the group proposal of the National Movement Party, or not against the police force. To me, the police force is actually a self-absorbed, self-absorbed, self-substantiated organization that makes its night and day to serve people. For him, whatever is done to this organization, it's better to have it. I'd like to keep that in mind. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, there is a complaint against the group's proposal for the length of the police force's work. In particular, if we review Turkey in recent years, if we go from Ankara to Ankara alone, we will find that there is a terrible difference in the size of Ankara (now Ankara) 15 years ago, and if we consider that all things in the countryside are piling up in city centers, large metropolitan areas, and therefore the population of all our major cities is increasing and the population of their population is increasing to the police force. Therefore, the need for more police is a problem. What's one of your problems? Yes, there are places where the governors' initiatives -- the governor did the same thing on time -- are sometimes run for thirty-six hours, sometimes twenty-four hours -- because they need more police. This is an arrangement made entirely by the governors in need there. But, to put it this way, the police force doesn't work for eight hours, like the other officers. However, I have to tell you right away, it's already in the core of that agency, in its system. Everybody's going in there knowing our cops are gonna work this hard. Oh, he's going in on purpose, why is he going in? I want to get there right away. The police force is a selfless task, because to me it is a very important task because it is a direct task that serves a human being, a place where he entrusts a man's life, his property, his honor. For him, yes, it's difficult, but it's as honorable as it is difficult. When we look at this point, every year the police department, the Police General Directorate, takes about 8,000 or 10,000 police in terms of the resources they can afford, and they get about 10,000 cops, but between 8,000 and 10,000 people are applying to get inside these 8,150,000 people. So there's no other profession with such a large appeal. There's another motivation, another satisfaction, since people have applied to these challenges, these challenges, to see them. And because that motivation is at the core of service to man, with such motivation, our police force is continuing its mission. Of course, as my dear colleague has just said, it's done in the measure of rights, especially when it's being launched or when it's making the choice. You know that the police force, especially in the entrance to police universities of applied sciences, is being tested by the SNSM. So, in that sense, I claim that whoever the OSD is putting in, at that point, is as fair as possible, so I'm claiming that it's a man who's been in this business for four years. You know, it's up to everyone whether they believe that bet or not. Of course, as I just said, this job is said to be a problem with the police department at the top of these challenges -- which is what they're always saying -- more work time, more work time, more police work. Yes, I have to say yes to this place because the police force has to serve 24 hours without interruption, so like another agency, for example, a deed agency closes its shop after eight hours, and then doesn't do anything until the next day. A Local Register Office closes when the regular shift is over, and you leave tomorrow. But he's not in the police force, he has to serve 24 hours straight. For him, of course, there are times when that happens. What's the solution to this? The most important solution is to increase the number of cops. Well, at that point, when the AK PARTY government took over with around 180,000 police officers, it now tried to provide a certain relief by raising it to 250-260,000. Hopefully, this work will continue in the coming days. At the end of this study, the most said about our police force, especially at the numerical point, but it tries to increase the number by supporting it with other technical possibilities, is that: the MOBESE system, which is called in all our provinces and in all our major counties, has been completely successful in watching the city and fighting the criminals, has also been established in the time of the AK PARTI governments, and the MOBESE system has created a great relief for police conditions. Perhaps a certain amount of relief is being made during overtime through the MOBESE. In addition, when we look at it, the support of the police, especially the AK PARTI governments in the direction of equipment, is a huge support and support that will make it almost two or three times as much as it took it. Of course, our police have material resources, I'm told, but since we've taken them up to now, we've seen that the police pay has increased by six times as much, is that enough? No, I think it would be useful to increase it even more if it were possible. At this point, I especially want to say that there's another motivation for the police force, which is in all agencies, all units, if there's no way to get up in one place, the motivation will drop after a certain amount of time. Here is the opportunity for those in the police force to take the sergeant's assistant exam after they've worked for a period of time, which gives them a sense of motivation. Again, recently released -- which was issued in the time of the AK PARTI governments -- the police department and the senior police department are also a motivational work. On the other hand, one of the most important things that's been provided is the privilege of the police. Everyone's said that for years, but they couldn't make it happen. In the time of the EC PARTI government, the mandate for military service has been lifted, and thus, perhaps, the military issue, one of the most important points of motivation, is thus resolved. It's an important, comforting event, and what we're doing... of course, all we're doing is doing this, and we're doing this. In the old days, our cops used to go to the games, but the security guards there get paid, sir, all the members of Youth Sports get paid, but the cops who did it didn't get paid for anything. In a study conducted in the time of the AK PARTY governments, we are now paid a fee for the second job, which is referred to as games and tests. In the past, those who tried to flee to avoid the match now write less to me, write more to my friend. They turned it into a complaint. So that means there's a possibility of that kind of motivation here, too. Of course, in fact, at the point of providing all kinds of opportunities, as I said at first, we are in favor of providing the police with all kinds of opportunities, and as a matter of fact, our police had another problem, mandatory retirement at 52 years old. At the time of the AK PARTY governments, this mandatory pension was raised from 52 to 55. In doing so, two goals were set: First of all, those three years in the police were meant to compensate for the lack of numbers I mentioned earlier. Second: On the other hand, the police have been moved from 52 to 55, especially in order to ensure that they finish school and receive more money, assuming that they have children at a higher school, working more than three years. So, how were they made? They're not really random. There's a permanent team inside this Police Department, within it and within the Interior Ministry, and they sit down and do their research. In fact, sometimes they expand a little bit, and the inspectors go through town by entering here, taking individual statements and doing research. Such opportunities are being made within the scope of the information that came from that research. So, especially in this motion, the research commission is actually established within the Ministry itself, and they investigate police problems and how to address them. That's what happens at the end of those studies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I would like to rephrase immediately that the police force is a truly selfless, successful, eye-to-eye organization. No one will be able to dishonor this organization, and those who want to dishonor this organization will be cleansed when its place comes, and the organization will stand firm. I hereby thank the spouses and relatives of our police department, especially from here, who provide this support more beautifully. I pray to our veterans for immediate healing and for God's mercy to our martyrs. In the coming days, especially now, our bag bill is under way, but there's a bigger one, we have a presidential election. There will also be an important study in that election. I believe that by electing our president, we can solve these problems even better. I hereby salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0016par0281	Yeah, that's enough! The greasers are getting off.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0017par0282	Enough, Mr. Oğuz. The Prime Minister didn't hear it, but the microphone wasn't on.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0018par0283	Mr. President, the President's ad thing happened when the microphone was cut, and even if you promised him a place, the message would be delivered to Mr. Oğuz.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0019par0284	He's got it, he's got it.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0020par0285	Thank you. In favor of the nationalist movement group's proposal, Adnan Şişek Uçı, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0021par0288	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love, respect. Of course, Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal has been talking here for about a minute, a minute and a half longer, and I want the same right, Mr. President, because you never interfered. Mr. Oğuz Kaan Koksal Bey, the ruling party's speaker, made an assessment in the final part of his speech -- in relation to the microphones we can hear -- that the age of retirement has been motivated by moving from 52 to 55, while at the same time preventing a reduction in police personnel. Now, that's true, but the question is whether it happens at 52, 55, 60, or the coefficient that concerns his pension after retirement, that's the question. So if we ask which police officer... I just called a bunch of police friends backstage and we're having a talk later, do you have anything to say to us? They called it the kats, the rights of the essence. We're not saying there's nothing else wrong with the police, but that's the biggest problem, and we'll get to that in a little while. The first thing to look at is that the police, through all of the powers, have been used as a triggerman for political power during the period of the government, which has been significantly past, the 61st government, the 62st government, and that has worn out the police. So your only power was not during the Justice and Development Party period, but from time to time they were used in a very extreme way, but the most brutal, ruthless, and most unsavory use of this has been during the 12-year period of AKP power. Now, why was the police turned into the triggerman of political power? The past political conditions in Turkey are that because of antidemocratic practices, political power has no other power but police, against different forces. But why is the police in this situation at the same time? When we look at it today, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Despite all the difficulties, HSYK, other institutions have a highly established tradition in an appointment, in a post, in a record, but there is no healthy, healthy law in the police department. So you can't expect a Chief Constable from him in an environment where he's expected to be a general manager, who's expected to be a governor, who's expected to be a governor, and who's expected to be a governor. He tries to make his own sacrifices, his own efforts to make this headquarters and be useful to his police, but beyond that, he's political. This has to be done once. This money doesn't want stamps, Mr. Justice and Development Party's valued executives, lawmakers and valued representatives of the government. It's just a sit-down with a proper police department law. In addition, it seems to be a very small issue, but let's see, for example, how far does a police officer, a police officer at the police station, who has to face the criminal in the first place, get promoted in the first place? Is there justice here, is there justice here? So the protection branch -- many branches, counterterrorism, intelligence -- is being compensated for these -- at certain points, the branch tasked with protecting certain sensitive areas, as well as the people. Can the protection department benefit from this compensation, as well as the police officers who work at the guard points? So the police can get justice within themselves? His daily needs are so simple, his food, his tea, his coffee, where he served, they seem so simple. Let me explain something more interesting: radio surveillance at home. Mr. Lawmakers, isn't it very simple that you have to listen to the radio at home, the police coming to your house, listening to the radio, but that radio in that house... He's got a kid. He's studying. I mean, with a lot of different possibilities, you can get to that cop. I mean, there's technology today, there's cell phones, there's everything, but that's instructions. These look so simple. It's not your job, of course, it's the police chief's job, and some of them... they don't feel the need for the law, but they're all looking at the power of the Police Department, not just today, but during the 40-50 government period, but for the past 12 years in particular, they've been unable to do anything. No overtime. So there's no such thing as an over-time deed officer, a registrar, a court officer, a medic, a paramedic, and the police have no such thing. So the police are dehumanizing. The permits are unfair. Unsigned petitions... give the petition to 50 investigations against the police officer who's trying to do his duty. The ruling party's representative, for example. So now Hatay's burned. Hatay has now become Turkey's most important terrorist zone. How many policemen have increased in Hatay? For God's sake, look at this. So that police officer can serve with 190 police officers in Reyhan. What's he gonna do with 50 or 60 cops? Did you ever think about the psychology of that? Has it occurred to the government that we should increase the number of police in Hatay? Well, the population's up 50 percent, so the police need to increase by 50 percent, right? Let's give up 50, 10 to 20 percent, shall we? Can you put that much pressure on this cop? After that, of course, it's the cop who pays the price for the problems that arise. You canceled a new test. 7,000 people were to be taken. Suddenly, you have victimized 3,500 people saying, "Can he be a parallelist?" So these go to the army, they come in, they expect to be cops. They also delayed his military service. There was no healthy explanation for that. The police have been appointed to be parallelists. Members of parliament, the police may have opinions; they may be archipelago, they may be social Democrats, they may be sympathetic to any congregation. Of course, it is not for the police to reflect that personal opinion on their mission, and it is a crime in the Internal Service Law in the police. Make the determination that the horse commits a crime if he commits a crime, but don't condemn and fear all those who belong to this view and have no crime. That cop can't function anymore. I mean, these are very important things. Thousands of cops are being transferred. What are their families? We're coming back to the most important issue: freedom rights. They want 3,600 coefficients, not much. That's the coefficient a petty officer wants, the coefficient our police want in his retirement. Do you know why this is important? Not just so that he can live humanly after retirement, but as his retirement age approaches -- whether it's 52 or 55 or 60 -- it's going to end up in a fear of thinking about his life after retirement. I mean, how's he gonna make a living? The salary's dropping, there's a 60% salary loss. Do you know what happens after that, Congressman? Absence corrupts courage, the police are in need of it. I mean, I'm going to retire in three years, and I was wondering if I could work with this or something, and he could give me a loaf of bread or something? Absence corrupts courage, and the police are in need of it. Let's not make the police miserable. This is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it is a priority because we're talking about an institution that concerns our children, our children, our peace of mind, Turkey's peace, and that's what we're dealing with, and in your time of power, unfortunately, it hasn't been done in 12 years. You're here because we're going to solve a lot of problems, a fundamental problem, but you're going to have a very non-serious approach that's far from the most fundamental problem. I hereby salute all police families, all our police martyrs, the wives of the police, their children, their children, with respect, with love, with respect, with respect, and thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0022par0302	Thank you. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP, who wants to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0023par0306	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I got a speech on an MHP group proposal. The police force is a hundred and sixty-nine-year-old organization, with approximately 260,000 staff. While the police are doing their duty, police are a powerful institution that has established a principle of respect for itself for the rights and freedoms of the law, the Constitution and other laws. This institution has been constantly improving and open to innovation at this stage, while our police, who continue to work day after day and night to ensure the peace and security of citizens without the concept of overtime. Some 85 percent of the staff thus became university graduates. Police work with respect to human rights, not criminal evidence, but particularly as an organization that goes from evidence to criminal to terror, while on the other hand, they provide security and dignity in society. As I've just said, our Ministry of the Interior continues to work day and night in terms of improving the working conditions of our officers who work without the concept of overtime. I think these studies should pay off now.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0024par0311	Isn't it over in 12 years?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0023par0312	As a matter of fact, our dedicated police officers, who work without the concept of overtime, deserve it very much. In that sense, I hope our Home Secretary is listening to the speeches here; he's listening, he'll take the necessary precautions. On the other hand, one of the most public debates about our police is the use of disproportionate force. We all wish and wish that our police use relative force in the face of events, but there may be problems in implementation. With the development of events, the training of the police, the way they grow, there may be isolated and personal events. In that sense, we should all train our cops, and if our cops are still having an isolated incident, they should be expelled from the profession if necessary. I don't think there's any need for tolerance in that sense.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0024par0314	What are we going to do about the minister? You're exporting the police?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0023par0315	Again, Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal, who has made a successful Police General Directorate, is here to talk about police and group proposals, keeping this agenda fresh. He's made technical statements about the technical issues that police have experienced here.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0025par0316	Who thinks of the police if we don't recommend it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0023par0317	I'd like to make it very clear that I'm participating in our congressman's statements. Again, I believe police fees and military problems are partially resolved. About the fee -- as I just said -- these problems will be solved as soon as possible. As a result, the police force is taking its authority from the Constitution and the law. As long as the police and the police have established the rule of law, respect for basic rights and freedoms, I think they'll do the best they can. But, of course, I believe that while we're considering these events, individual events, we shouldn't be sullying an institutional organization for the entire police department.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0026par0320	How many policemen were driven on 17-25, Ramadan? Why was he banished?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0023par0321	As a result, I have stated that I have requested a discussion, not against the group proposal. The other speakers who were here before me said good things, and they made wishes and wishes. Hopefully, their wishes and wishes will come true. It's almost time for the holidays. We're meeting with Bill 639. The overwhelming majority of public opinion is awaiting this law with serious expectations. We're in the 10th article. Hopefully, we'd all like to give them a second holiday, as we respond to public expectations in unison. In these feelings, I declare that I'm talking about the group proposal, I leave the group's recommendation to the General Assembly, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0027par0325	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0028par0326	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit01spe0027par0327	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0027par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 138 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Friday 18/07/2014 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Court of Justice. Tokat MP Orhan Sütlü and 20 MPs have submitted the parliamentary research motion (1155 places) which was submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 29/11/2013 to determine measures that should be taken by investigating the issues concerning the rights of petty officers. lu) It has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Friday's Friday's daily assembly and held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal, Orhan Süpı, the Tokat MP. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0029par0021	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation of the NGO's policy issues. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you know, military service is a truly sacred and very difficult task. But the work of the petty officers involved in this mission is even more difficult because petty officers are truly the most heavily burdened profession of the military in every sense. Of course, we can't be insensitive to the problems of the professional class, which is doing such an important task, defending our country, as the main opposition party. For these reasons, we've submitted this motion for research and we're about to present it to the General Assembly's discretion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, they don't ask for much. All civil servants begin their positions at 9/2, while the petty officers start at 9/1. And what does that bring? These people work for years, they retire, and when they retire, they get a lower pension than anyone else. Other government officials can carry out their duties longer, they can increase their rank by working harder, but as I said, military service is difficult, and there's not much chance of them working long. It's a request for petty officers to correct their starting degrees so that pensions can be corrected. Again, in a way that I don't really understand, when all government officers are nurses, doctors, lawyers -- when they're pre-licensed, their grades are reflected in their salaries, but for some reason, when the petty officers see higher education, they don't get that impression. So do we object to the fact that our soldier, our petty officer, is more educated, more cultured, lawmakers? We have to solve these men's problems. Again, we made the law, and we said: "When a certain term in the army is removed from their duties, they will be given jobs in public institutions as a priority." But I'm sure you're all looking at the practice, there are at least a hundred petty officers, specialists, privates, and civil servants. They have applications to hire us in the municipality. Surely, since it's come so far to the opposition, I think it's much more to power, but that's how it's been prevented from these people's employment, especially because of the opposition municipalities' debt to the USSR and so on, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every time I come to this bench, I say that two serious vocational classes, police and soldiers, are the most suicide class in Turkey. Look, let's put aside the safety of these people's lives, these people who walk around with guns in their backs until the last time they commit suicide, not just their own safety, but the safety of the entire community. Let's set up a commission on this bench over and over again: why are these soldiers, why are these cops committing suicide, what are these problems, how can we solve them? But we haven't been able to get any answers so far. Dear lawmakers, the power of a country is also proportional to the strength of its army, which you all accept. Well, how's our army doing, and I'd like to take a quick look at this. Look, today, the high-value lawmakers from power came in wearing scarfs, showing a sensitivity to Palestine. I sincerely, sincerely thank them. They know what happened in the past, and in Turkey, the only thing that rightists and left-wingers have in common is the issue of Palestine, because Palestine is as sacred to Turkey as it is to the Turkish nation as Cyprus, and the Turkish nation sees it as a national case. But after I appreciate your sensitivity, I can't help but say that being a serious state is another business. You are the ruling lawmakers who rule the country, who ask you, what did you do in Gaza to stop these massacres? Behold, I tell you, you have multiplied the volume of commerce with Israel fourfold. In a situation like this, a serious state would have frozen commercial relations first, frozen military relations, frozen diplomatic relations. Look, Venezuela deported the Israeli ambassador. What happened to the one in Turkey, Mr. Lawmakers? Why isn't the Republic of Turkey reacting to this? Look, you sell jet fuel for the planes that bombed Gaza, lawmakers, this government sells. You have to stop this sale at once, and if you don't stop it, the blood of those children will be in your hands, and you won't be able to handle it. Dear lawmakers, I'm telling you, at the very beginning, if you want to be with the people of Gaza, if you want to be with the Palestinian people, you're going to take out the Jewish Courage Prize, you're going to hand it over, you're going to show that you're with the Palestinian people, and there's no credibility in what you're doing here unless you do so. Dear lawmakers, there is an organization called ISIS, and this organization, which we called "the Chapulcu" 3-5 people yesterday, is currently occupied by the Turkish Republic's consulate. The occupation of a consulate means that the international diplomacy is occupied by that country, which means that the Republic of Turkey is now occupied. However, we don't see any initiatives from the government or the Parliament, whatever wisdom it is. As a result of the ban on publication, we are far from finding out what is going on in them. Who is this ISIS? This is ISIS, an organization that you supplied with weapons support yesterday, you can't deny it at all. This ISIS has bombed the shrine of Veysel Karani, who said, "Don't go, you're sick. You can't get there." The same organization bombed the Mosque of Mohammadiye in Istanbul. The other day, Ali showed you the burnt Koran here in Özgündüz. What's going on, lawmakers? What country is this, what country are we in? Why are people's religious sensibilities not observed in this country? If a Koran was burned in a mosque during the Republican People's Party, what would your reaction be, would you remain silent? I want you to ask your conscience for once. Yes, the esteemed MPs played football by cutting off the same ISIS people's heads. The Turkmen are crying blood in northern Iraq. Mosul and Kerkuk have been invaded. We are always our brothers, always our friends, always yours, always yours, and there is no Turkmen left in what we call Musul and Kerkuk. Mr. Secretary of State is even preventing the General Assembly from coming in today and giving information. We've asked the Minister, and you're a witness, and he says he'll see the Minister. While Palestine burns in the Middle East, the Minister can come to the General Assembly without asking the Foreign Minister. Dear lawmakers, look...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0030par0037	Your candidate...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0029par0038	Our candidate has a Palestinian medal on his chest, don't worry. Yes, Mr. Lawmakers, look, I got a call today from Tokat. A thousand-year-old Alevi shrine, a thousand years old. Of the men of Horasan, the minaret was planted in the shrine of Baba the Chechenite, and the teacher was recited. We respect Ezan-yadiye, but you have to respect our shrine. It's not the mosque, it's the tomb of Baba the Wrestler. We won't let you use it. The governor of the state says to my village: "Don't you want a Muslim voice, don't you?" Brother-in-law, you're gonna be a man, you're gonna do your job. Your job is to make a road to that village, get water, get electricity, get midwifes, get nurses, get doctors. You're not authorized to question people's religion. You'll know your place, you'll do your job properly, or we'll ask you to pay for it.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0031par0042	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, SmurfÜnal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0032par0046	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. At the beginning of my words, I strongly condemn Israel's massacre and genocide in Gaza. On this occasion, the General Assembly welcomes all of our petty officers and our beloved nation who are watching us in front of their television. Our petty officers are one of the main and most important elements in the chain of command and command of the Turkish Armed Forces. At the point of improving the rights of the poor and selfless members of this community, which makes a significant part of the professional manpower, who has given up a life for our country's honorable professions, who are serving with their lives in the most remote dorms, whose family shares the same fate with them, our government is continuing to continue its work in the favour of our Petty Officers. In this scope, the level-of-the-art promotion of petty officers due to the transfer of to a single indicator table for Turkish Armed Forces personnel, the highest levels and conditions that they can rise according to their circumstances, the highest levels of education higher than the level of their education level of their training, the Law of the State Administration, and the new level of their education to whom they have a higher degree of higher education and doctorates, and the fact that the rank, seniority and senior areas of the Turkish Armed Forces have been assigned to the higher levels of the Union, the 926th Armed Forces Act, and the Law to change in some Laws, the Law on State of Emergency, and the Law on Higher Education, and the Law on Humanity of Education, and the Law on Humanity of Turkey's Offices 942, are task due to be appointed to be charged with additional officers, 926, 926, 926, 926, and 926, the Armed Forces, and 926, to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be under the Armed Forces, 926, 926, and 926, the Armed Forces, the Armed Forces, and to be appointed to be appointed to be under the Armed Forces, and to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be under the Armed Forces, and 926, 926, 926, and to be under the Armed Forces Act, 926, 926, 926, 926, 926, and Some of Turkish Armed Forces, and Some of Armed Forces, and Some of Staff, and Some of Armed Forces, and some other Armed Forces, to be appointed, and to be appointed, and to be appointed Officers, and to be under the Armed Officers, and to be appointed, and to be appointed Officers, and 926, 926. It's one degree. We've designed the amendment to the 926 Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, which aims to cover their pensioners and petty officers outside the scope of their deployment. For those who have earned 3,600 additional indicators and pensions of them, major and under 1. ranked officers and their pensioners and 1st. We're still working on the legal arrangement for the amendment of the 926 Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law, which aims to compensate the veterans for their duties. In addition, the MIT, the senior major and the officer under whom the pensioner has not received severance due to a change to pensions of pensioners such as law-enforcement personnel, has been implemented on February 22, 2014, in Article 28921, under which the Law shall be passed in accordance with the 6319 Military Law, which aims to ensure that the pensions of senior officers, specialist gendarmes and specialists, be taken into retirement. Dear lawmakers, as the EC PARTY, we show our utmost concern for our petty officers, who are our military's secret heroes, at the point of improving their rights. Studies on this matter have been accelerated, and we are also planning to discuss the bill and proposals that I've just listed to you in parliament in the year of the legislature. Dear lawmakers, I spoke to our Association of Retired Petty Officers at the request of the Turkish Association of Retired Petty Officers after the Feast of Sacrifice last year, in my room in Parliament. I listened to six or seven pens talk about their problems, and we discussed the matter with them. I've delivered all these problems to Mr. Secretary of State and our Prime Minister in a file. I've also presented a summary of this to our President in person to be addressed at a high-level meeting. Therefore, the state of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic are following the problems of our petty officers from the first place. In addition, our Chief of Staff and our National Defence Ministry are co-ordinated with our Joint Chiefs of Staff and with all Turkish Armed Forces personnel to improve the rights of our petty officers and pensioners. The improvement of the rights of Turkish Armed Forces personnel, along with all public personnel, is one of the priority duties of our government. Our Ministry of National Defence and General Staff continue to work as co-ordinated to improve the rights of our Turkish Armed Forces' original elements, and to improve the autonomy rights of our retired petty officers. At this stage, we think there is no need for a research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's why the Republican People's Party says we're against the group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0033par0054	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Mesut Dedeoğlu and Kahramanmarash MP. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0034par0058	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion to investigate our Petty Officers, given to our Parliamentary President. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, it is of great importance to our nation and our country that the Turkish Armed Forces carry out their mission successfully and successfully in accordance with the conditions of the age. The Turkish Armed Forces have a duty to protect the Turkish country and its nation's glory from the dangers coming from outside and from within. Because of this mission, Turkish Armed Forces personnel have carried out a very sacred and honorable mission in our country. Hence, some changes are being made in the laws of time and time. The Turkish Armed Forces have put forth a great deal of effort and effort not to be behind the world's developments, technology, war tactics. As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we must help them, we must. The burden on the Turkish Armed Forces is very heavy. The Turkish army has thousands of years of tradition. They have continued these traditions with glory, honor, and pride. We wish that these traditions and customs will continue the same way from now on. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the government must surely address the growing problems of Turkish Armed Forces personnel, because they are in a state of great dissatisfaction. As a Turkish nation, the problems of Turkish Armed Forces personnel, which we owe our presence, our unity, and our resilience, must be resolved as soon as possible, in a single matter of time. The resignations from the army that have emerged in recent years have become sad. The number of officers and petty officers who have resigned from the Turkish Armed Forces in the past three years has reached 13.751 people. Congressmans, this is a very important number for our Turkish Armed Forces. In 2009, we determined that the number of experts at 67 thousand was around 40,000 today, 40,000. There's a huge resignation, a huge reduction, a major withdrawal from the army. We need to find out the underlying reasons, the underlying reasons. We have to take the necessary precautions together. After the conspiracy, such as Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer, 684 pilots resigned from the Turkish Armed Forces. And of course there's a reason for that, and they need to be investigated. What do you mean they're coming out of our army, our Turkish Armed Forces? The government's been working for years at the point of growing them. If these are separated, we have to investigate and find out the reasons for this and make sure we have a solution point. The number of pilots resigning is increasing day by day. In 2013, 110 pilots resigned from the Turkish Armed Forces. The number of pilots who resigned from the army in February 2014 alone was 74. When we gather at the bottom, it means there are no pilots left in the Turkish Armed Forces. Our very young officers, very young pilots, fly planes. So in another way, experience has been destroyed, experience has been broken, and our young friends are acting instead, which is a matter that needs to be considered and resolved immediately. There must be new and comprehensive studies to prevent resignations. The personnel still have problems with many issues. The government must also give up the balance of the budget in terms of the solution. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the problems of other staff members of the Turkish Armed Forces are also very big. To illustrate a few of these, the first one is our chartered officers. We've got our chartered officers, we've signed a three-year contract, and after three years, that contract officer can't sleep till morning again. Why? So, what's he gonna do if he doesn't renew his contract in three years, where he's gonna go, where he's gonna go? In the second three years, in the third three years, as in the fourth three years, at the end of the fifteenth year, every day in distress, in pain, after that age, what will I do, if my contract is not renewed? What will I do, where will I work, and who will I work for? My profession is now the Turkish Armed Forces, the fighting, what do I do after this? He says, "He's in a hurry." We have to find a solution to this. Either we don't, or we do, and then we have to get to know these guys about the other regular officers' rights. Other than that, they have many other problems, so let me give you another little example. It happened -- it's for everyone, and it's for all people, including us -- a 90-day report has been filed. Likewise, these chartered officers of ours were outside the door, their contract was terminated; after 40 years of age, after 45 years of age, they said, "What are you going to do when you can't retire?" With these, again, we have very valuable members of the Turkish Armed Forces. From time to time, regulations made by the government have failed to eliminate the problems of this group. The men who lay down their lives for the sake of their country are still troubled by tomorrow's concerns, as are our chartered officers. Our specialists serve under very difficult circumstances. Our specialists serve in the mountains and barracks, away from home for months. Of course, our Petty Officers, along with our specialists, are involved. Our petty officers are the staff who carried out and carried out orders from the commander who pulled all the weight of the army. They too must be fulfilled and comforted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For years, our staff has spared no sacrifice. The government has again applied to Turkish Armed Forces personnel for the third time as part of the payment compensation fee, and has been envisioned for an additional 205 lira in the past period. According to these regulations, officers and petty officers deserve side compensation within five years, while experts deserve this payment within ten years. For officers and petty officers, it's two years at a time, five years at a time at a time for specialists. Our specialists are also suffering because of the arrangements for health care. These friends of ours shouldn't be sick for more than 90 days in a year, just like with the chartered officers again. If they are ill, their contract will be annulled and thrown out. Contracted officers and petty officers begin by signing contracts between three and nine years. There must be arrangements for these, too. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers are in debt to those who are bravely put forward in the defence of the country and those who have been wounded for it, those who have lost their lives and those who have been killed. One of the major problems among veterans is that the problems of employees, other than the proper ones, are the same as those of the relatives of veterans and martyrs who are obliged to look after their wives and children. Children of combat veterans must first take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, our veterans should be given homes in proper installments by the chief of staff and officers of the Public Housing Administration. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0035par0076	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked against the Republican People's Party group proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0036par0080	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate. Although we have made a promise against it, this is a motion to investigate the development of the rights of our Petty Officer brothers, who have served with great sacrifice as the cornerstone of our Turkish Armed Forces. There was a motion here the other day. It's as if when the opposition's proposal was accepted, our Petty Officer brothers' problems suddenly developed a sense that they could be solved. There's a huge reaction coming to our friends who've spoken against him, too. This should not be perceived as such, these problems... of course, whatever improvements are made in the resources of our Petty Officer brothers, there will always be little left.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0037par0083	Are you going to take it, Recep?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0038par0084	You'll take it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0039par0085	Agreed? Agreed?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0040par0086	Should more be done? Of course it has to be done.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0041par0087	Tell me if you're with our investigation, and drop it.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0040par0088	Should more opportunities be offered? Of course, there should be more possibilities, but they all have to be in a budget balance. Any problems? Of course our Petty Officer brothers have problems. Our Smurf Unal friend, who just spoke on behalf of our group, shared information about this with you in our Parliament. Not here, but we want you to know that we're on top of it, that our government, our party, is conducting studies on the rights of petty officers, that there are studies at the point of some improvements, that if this is to be done again, it will be done by the EC PARTI, especially by the public, we want you to know. Today, we need to discuss the Soma mining disaster and the law on our subcontractors, which will respond to the public's expectations, and bring it to an immediate conclusion. In order to discuss this matter on our agenda, I would like to inform you that we are not participating in this motion for the day, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0042par0092	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0043par0093	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit02spe0042par0094	I will submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes, but I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0042par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party Group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. (9/8) We will choose the open membership of the main Parliamentary Investigation Commission. I'm reading the names of the candidates the Republican People's Party has shown as three times as many for one membership: Republican People's Party Group Candidate List [[3]] (9/8) The main parliamentary inquiry commission has been elected Tekirdağ MP Mr. Emre Bridgellu. Under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs who are ranked in the 3rd ranking position of President of the Health Institutes of Turkey and the Constitutional Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of 108 legal proposals and Plan and Budget Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Employment Law and the Amendment to certain Laws. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, the motion was completed on Article 10 in the first part of the bill, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I will make a promise to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu to discuss the motion issued by Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu and his friends from the same proposals which were processed in yesterday's merger, which stipulated that the item be removed from the text. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0044par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This is a price difference clause we're talking about. This clause was brought in regarding the mine on the grounds that there was a price difference, a cost increase, due to the arrangements you made for the mines after the Soma disaster. It's not ethical, it's not ethical, it's not ethical to bring such a substance before it's out of the Plan and Budget Commission, without the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey here, without being published in the Official Gazette, without taking effect, without implementing it. But that's not what I want to talk about. We interviewed the Plan and Budget Commission for about ten days on this clause. Unfortunately, the information given was always conflicted with previous information, which was not given to us by TKI officials and the Department of Energy officials. We've never had clear information about the cost increase. Here are the valued members of the Plan and Budget Commission, and they themselves are witnesses, and they know it best. Mr. Secretary, your undersecretary was there on the last day, and Mr. Undersecretary has also made a promise that this information will be given to me by Monday or that it will be given to the members of the Commission. We didn't get any information. In the same way, the Director General said, we didn't get any information. If there's a cost difference, if there's a cost increase, there's an impact analysis, there's a motive. Look, my dear friends, I'm telling you, I have some figures, as TKIE tells us, that the first company -- I don't explain the name -- is 341 million lira in 2013. Look, for 2014, even today, there's an average cost of $1,400 per worker. I'll take 3,000 liras, 3,000 liras. The mines don't have income tax cuts. I'll take 3,000 liras. 4,700 people, 4,800 people working here at the most, the authorities have announced. I'll take 5 grand, that's $180 million at $5,000. He took 341 million liras. I'm doing the math for 3,000 liras. Once, even if it's twice as much, it's a minimum wage, even if it's over 2,000 liras, and if it's over 2 minimum wage, it's not cost-effective. How can we do such a reckoning? How can We give the orphans their dues on this blessed day, and not give them their dues? Is the Department of Energy, TKI, a toy of these companies, but is it possible to demand a price increase here without us being given this information? To say yes to such a thing on this blessed Friday is indeed a shameful subject for all, a subject that will be a sin for us, for the rest of our world. I'm getting your attention, especially as someone who's interested in these matters, look, I've told you the numbers one by one. There are 341 million lira collections for 2013; 90 million liras are not worth more than $1,400 liras. I'm making 3,000 liras per person making $180 million in the mine at the most. How is he affected? How can it come up without these numbers? I also said: "As for the firms here in Soma, I've asked for it so far, and they haven't brought any of it, the contracts are extended, extended ahead of their time, without a contract, without a board decision. They didn't get any tenders or board decisions. Without a decision from the Governing Body, can't he give a price difference to someone who can, without a tender, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, without, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, can, Is that why he brings the law? What kind of a disgrace is that? Don't vote for God's sake for this scandal, dear lawmakers. Let this information come, let it be proven, and then let's vote. I'll give you a price difference if you have to, but in such a case, it would be a sin to vote, to say yes, to all of us. I'm warning everyone, and I'm paying all of you my respects on this occasion. Please take my word for it. I'm not saying this for politics, there's nothing wrong with what I'm saying, so please vote on it. If the Minister is a fanatic, he has to make sure that this information comes as soon as possible. Nothing's come up yet. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0045par0050	Thank you. Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0046par0053	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 10th Amendment. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I curse Israel's state terror and ISIS gang terror, which has committed a massacre on the oppressed peoples in Palestine and Rojava. I want to express our solidarity with the Palestinian people and the people of Rojava. Dear lawmakers, this 10th article is especially important. We know that you're going to lift a lot of material without reading it, without knowing it, but believe me, any hand you take off on the 10th article will come back as a heavy bill for the Soma catastrophes, like yours, because the arrangement here is an arrangement that encourages subcontracting the redevans system, which protects the redevans system, and creates the maximum profit demand for capital. We suffer from this arrangement coming to the General Assembly, the shame of humanity, because, more recently, we buried 301 of our miners in the ground because of this high-profile desire for profit. We've experienced this pain through the mentality of private corporations that disregard human labor, human dignity, and reveal everything over commercial gain. Now, while such suffering is present, the way the Council of Ministers will treat these private firms at the request of the Public Contraction Agency, using the cost increases in redevance and service contracts as an excuse. Is that even possible? After this Soma disaster, we have been waiting for the government to put the hat in front of the hat, remove privatisation policies in the mines, redevelopment, subcontractorization, and legal arrangements for public service in the mining sector, for the prevention of public health and business accidents, but every item of this bag you've brought before us is discussed here for hours, but believe me, if this 10th item passes through here, the bill of new Somas will come before each of you. In this way, without further raising our pain, without raising the pain of the families of Soma, the miners in Soma, we would suggest that you remove this material from this bill, without further raising the pain of these private companies that you've made, that you're going to give private companies a runt, that you're going to be able to do as much as possible, that you're going to be able to do, that you're going to do that. We think it's particularly important for lawmakers to do a conscientious accounting on this particular matter. If something different about this arrangement doesn't go on the agenda of the General Assembly, if it passes through here like it is, believe me, many of you didn't notice after Soma, but the companies that put the profit ambitions in front of it will continue to bring the bloody boots of the miners in Zonguldak, in Konya, in Şırnak, and in Balıkesir -- we will face much greater disasters. We need to meet the needs of a social expectation, such as making legal arrangements to question the mentality, to solve the fundamental problems, and this bill is being discussed far away from that. But I especially want to emphasize again: how if we pass the 10th article here, before the Soma disaster, we've brought a motion to investigate the mines, the safety of the business, the majority of the fingers, the Soma disaster not a month later, believe me, you'll face the same situation in the future, and none of you will be able to come out and use a single sentence to the people from this council floor, and we say, "You can't defend yourself in favor of our motion." I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0047par0060	Mr. President, before we vote on this clause, this motion has been discussed in the Commission. I was a member of the Commission, and we objected to that in both the lower commission and the higher commission. This motion was not in the government bill. Later, this motion was not discussed in the lower commission, nor was the upper commission given by a member of the ruling party. That day, when there were violent arguments, he withdrew the motion. Mr. Secretary wasn't involved either, and then it was put in during the editing process. In this regard, the clause that came with this motion must be removed from the report, which is completely against the law, because we have applied to the Parliamentary Presidency on this issue; there is also a report from Parliament Speaker to the report that he is sending back. Since it's not done, the Presidential Court needs to process this to be sent back.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0048par0062	Yeah, well, they've been discussed in a formal debate before.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0047par0063	We didn't do that, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0049par0064	We did it entirely, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit03spe0048par0065	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0048par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. On the 10th article, there's another proposal for the same property as subtracting from the text, and I'm going to read it: Number 639 is the 10th of the Bill of Law. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bill. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can from Nurettin Canikli Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0050par0012	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0048par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0051par0014	We agree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0052par0015	Mr. President, that's why I'm giving up my request for the previous hearing. Mr. Secretary has recognized this sensitivity from the reasons we're describing, and has submitted a motion to accept our request and withdrawn the 10th article. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0053par0017	Yes, thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The legal and financial dimensions of the law are intended to ensure further discussion. I'm going to vote together on four proposals of the same nature.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0054par0022	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0053par0023	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who do not accept... there is a sufficient number of decisions; the motion is accepted, the 10th article is removed from the text of matter. There are four motions on Article 11: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following sentence at the end of the number (1) subcommittee (e) which is envisioned to replace Article 639 with Article 11 of Article 639 of Article 62 of the Public Contraction Law, which is discussed. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special from Nurettin Canikli By Tülay Boiling Faruk Light Hilmi Bilgin Article 67 of City Law No. 3/7/2005 and Article 5393 and the special provisions for the service of other laws are kept No matter whether their workplaces are in the same place or not, workers who work in local administration or within the same local government's own units or within the same local administration's or within the same subsidiary are allowed to be subject to a change of employment or employment positions within 120 days, with the approval of the top head of the local administration, with the approval of the top management of this subsidiary and the approval of this subsidiary's employment positions. In accordance with this subcommittee, the wages of workers subject to business or workplace change and other financial and social rights and other severance benefits and other severance issues, the provisions of Article 6360 in accordance with the conditions of Article 1 of the Interim Law are applied in the same way." Yes, members of lawmakers, since the three motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Moses Chooses the Wrath of Pine Solomon Hasan Ören Ali İhsan İkturk Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Bült Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin Mehmet Haberal The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Ertugrul Kürkçı Erol Dora Mersin Mardin The signatures of the other motion are: Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Iş Necati Özensoy Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0055par0054	Mr. President, the government is not in place, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0053par0055	The government is in place, don't worry. Yes, Mr. Commission agree with the motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0056par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0053par0058	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0057par0059	We can't agree. President Necati Özensoy has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0058par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I condemn the idea of Israel and the Zionist. May God destroy those who kill people on the day of the holy Ramadan, except in self-defense. Of course, after this Soma disaster, especially after we learned a lesson from this place, especially from what we really want to come up with as a separate law, but when we look at these items that have entered the bag, let alone the inadequacies between what is wanted and what is here, the more I see from here, the more I think about it, the more I think about it, the more I think about it, the more I think about it. Now, we've done some really serious work, we've done a lot of work, we've done a lot of talks, we've received demands, especially after Soma, we've been a member of this Research Commission for a month and a half. What was the head of the demands there? Here's to prevent subcontractorization, especially in underground mining, with a different subcontractorization system, etcetera and so on, there's always been talk about taking measures to prevent a 1.5 million-ton production project year-on-year and getting it up to 3.5 or 4 million tons a year. Now, I'm looking at this 11th article, so let's not get ahead of subcontractorization, but it's an incentive that increases subcontractorization. See, it says here that the 62th article (e) of Public Contraction Law No. 4734 (e) was changed in the following way." Now, if there are not sufficient qualifications or numbers of staff employed under regulations and regulations (e) here (e) there can be a tender for services specified in this Law, says 4734, under Article 62. Now, look, it also says in Article 2 of Law 2 of the 4857 Law on these counselling services, the main work cannot be divided into sub-employees, except for the work, which requires technological expertise. What's the real job from the beginning anyway? What's the side job, sir? They're always arguing until today. I'm asking now: What is the real work of the Turkish Coal Company, Turkey's Taşkomuru Foundation? Is it selling coal or mining coal, for God's sake? Ha, now, look, the crucial point here is that it says that this will be replaced as the third in addition to (e) the third joke: it does not require that the staff employed in consulting services tenders be not sufficient quality or number of employees. I mean, whether they have as many experts as they want in the institution, as many quality, as many people as they want, it doesn't matter at all. I mean, are we, like, blocking subcontractorization, pausing subcontractorization? I mean, over there, look, you're not reading the law or... Look, as I said in the beginning, you're the ones taking advantage of the situation, the opportunity. I mean, you do worse things on something like this like you're doing something good. May God make you mend your ways, I offer you respect.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0059par0074	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0060par0077	Thank you. Guys, a woman in this photo, she was a chief of staff. He worked as a city chief of staff for 15 years. Another party in the election, when your party won, sent me to another service as a garbage man. That's the substance, that's the substance. If you'd like to take a good look at it... take it in public, send it where it wants to go, employ it wherever it wants, like assigning a musician to the butcher shop for cultural art, someone in the butcher shop, it's very possible, friends, it's very possible. If you love God, if such a sense of service, a sectoral understanding is made in public... it's already done in civilian areas, it's already made in private sectors. The private sector is already doing so, saying to the non-obligatory contractor: "Come on, the door is here." There are too many doors in this House. Look, one, two, three, four, five, six, and one for the main gate. There are 6,000 people in that garden under the roof of this House. Do you know how many of the six thousand work as subcontractors? Get in those furnaces, a problem, a chat. For God's sake, how right is it to have a college graduate working in a teapot for ten years? You're not going to consider the merits in the municipalities, you're going to ignore the service, you're just going to have a party coming up, winning according to your politics, pat, you're going to drag the other party member, you're going to drag him away. Well, then you're going to bring it back in this bag, whether it's the government, or the court may not enforce its decisions for two years. You're going to do it and you're going to do it and you're going to do it in public. Guys, that didn't happen. 2.7 million employees are in the public sector. The public sector is now subcontracted from education to health, from local governments to all areas of service, buying services, or whatever, or whatever... used to be public administration -- the computer was new, everybody didn't know how to use computers -- the computer expert would buy it, the service is available, but now there's no limit, there's no measure, there's no adjustment. Friends, you can bring an elementary school graduate and put him in charge of TUBITAK. Why? It's the law. Remember, seven were the majority under the rule of TUBITAK. A bag of laws came here when you were an apprentice and the law said: "If the Prime Minister wants, he can appoint seven managers himself." Of course, when he appointed seven executives, TÜBITAK was his. Whose is TUBITAK now? The Prime Minister's. Guys, we're a big country of 77 million. Millions of college students, young people, people who can work, are unemployed. If we crush the liakati like this, if we harass them like this, if we do injustice like this, why is there so much crime after that? Why were prisons filled with more than 150,000 people for the first time? This is a very serious problem. This is a problem that needs to be discussed and resolved very seriously. There's a comparison: the public, the citizen, sees what he sees. He's done the same school, he's done the same job, he's done the same job, he's done the same job, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing, he's done the same thing. We need to change the system, guys. We're saying not until this system is changed and the public unions have fully used their right to a collective contract. We pay our respects, we'll continue.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0061par0083	Thank you. It's the Izmir MP of Love who wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0062par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the 11th article of the bag bill we're discussing. I salute the grand jury. Now, this 11th article is a very troubling, very dangerous substance, Mr. Secretary. You know, in the debates on the Commission, in the lower commission, and in the upper commission, it was discussed in detail. Now, in front of us, a bag of provisions about Soma (Soma) was introduced into a law called the Soma bill, which expanded the method of receiving services in Turkey, which, in other words, expanded subcontractorial service. Here, this is one of those ingredients. The first thing I want to say is that if we look at this material text right now, the original work, the auxiliary job division, is expanding the scope of the work. Now, the old version of Public Contraction Law 4734 said: "If there are not sufficient qualifications and numbers of staff employed by law, regulations and regulations, it can be tendered for services specified in this law." But now, with the new arrangement, the Council of Ministers has the authority to determine which jobs will be helpful. In addition, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to determine what is going to happen, separately or together, by the administrations. So the Council of Ministers may say that one job in our ministry is the primary work that can define it as a co-worker in another ministry. For example, in the Ministry of Labor, the deed can also be an assistant job at the Kadastro General Directorate. In this way, the regulations defined by the law and in the same way are defined by the sub-employment regulations -- all of which are defined by the sub-employment regulations -- are defined by what is the co-worker's work. Basically, the job is about the production of goods and services, but it's not about the essence, it's about the work that supports the work. This is how it's brought in, and it's a real challenge, so let's just say that. Secondly, consider the seventh joke of Article 2 of Article 4857, dated 22/5/2003 and the established judicial proceedings in the text of the article... the expression. Dear friends, there is no such thing as a statement of caution in the text of the law. ▪ Taking notice is not a legally binding norm. The law states that you should take the easasas. However, when we first looked at it as it had been brought in, there was a decree that the matter would be taken. What do you mean, taken into consideration? So if the board of ministers wants to take it into account, they don't care. It's not binding in any way, it's a recommendation. Again, this is a serious problem. Gene says in the article:...the requirement that there is not enough quality or number of individuals....... what do you mean, friends? On the one hand, you're bringing in a norm staff app, not enough staff in the public to do the public's work, to do the public's work, to do the public's work, and after that, because I don't have enough qualifications or a number of employees, you're taking off, subcontracting. It's impossible to accept. As a matter of fact, Article 128 of the Constitution also states that the state shall be removed from the law and given to the Council of Ministers in accordance with the general administration of public administrations and other public administrations which are obliged to carry out its original and permanent duties, officers and other civil servants. When we look at this framework, it includes serious violations of the Constitution as well as of our current public staff laws in Turkey. Gene defines the actual work of management in subarm (2), and says:..the practice and the job can be tendered by the method of receiving services that require expertise for technological reasons... but in the text, when it first arrived, Mr. Secretary, we had the requirement to have sufficient quality and number of staff in front of us again, and now it has been removed. In part of the original work with this, it allowed the subcontractor to take the job without checking whether there are sufficient qualifications or sufficient staff in the field of expertise. In summation, the provisions brought with Article 11 are seriously distressed. In Turkey, subcontractors are the regulations that expand the working relationship and make it permanent. It is also against our laws, our laws, and the Constitution. We demand that this clause be withdrawn. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0063par0099	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0064par0100	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit04spe0063par0101	I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision to vote on the same proposals. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions of the same nature are not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0065par0008	Mr. President, I have a request from you, which is that, last night at 1:29 p.m., when you closed the House, you said a statement would be issued for Israel's attack on Palestine. It's now five past fifteen. I mean, why can't this be read in all this time? That's why you closed the House last night, but you said the House wouldn't work until it was read. I beg of you, please stick to those words.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0010	Mr. Tanal, thank you. The group's deputy presidents are meeting, sir. We'll read it. Yes, I'm reading the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following sentence at the end of the number (1) subcommittee (e) which is envisioned to replace Article 639 with Article 11 of Article 639 of Article 62 of the Public Contraction Law, which is discussed. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Article 67 of City Law No. 3/7/2005 and Article 5393 and its special provisions for the service of other laws are kept. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0066par0018	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0019	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0067par0020	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0068par0021	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0022	I'm reading the reason: In addition, municipalities tasked with meeting joint needs are allowed to receive services in accordance with their own private laws and to protect other special arrangements. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. Members of parliament, Statement of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for Military Actions Against Israel to Palestine: As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we strongly condemn Israel's attacks against the Palestinian people in Gaza, despite all warnings. We consider Israel's massacres to be a serious violation of international law and human rights law. With this action, Israel condemns the people of Gaza to destruction. We deeply regret and worry that the number of casualties and casualties in Gaza, under heavy bombardment from land, air and sea, and the killings of innocent civilians, including women and children, are considered an unacceptable and unforgivable crime of humanity. As the source of the violence and wave in the region, Israel has pushed the peace of the region further and further. 1) The immediate halt of the attacks against the Palestinian people and their territory, particularly Gaza by Israel, 2) The immediate removal of all obstacles and embargos, including the emergency humanitarian aid of Gaza, which ensures the liberalisation of access and access to occupied Palestinian territory, 3) To ensure that international organisations, particularly the United Nations Security Council, take any necessary steps without delay, especially to ensure a permanent ceasefire to stop these inhuman and illegal attacks on the Palestinian people, 4) That all parliaments, governments, organizations and societies carry out their common conscientious responsibility to the Palestinian people, He waits and demands. For the suffering of the Palestinian people to be embraced, destroyed, and destroyed, to be satisfied with their infrastructure and so on, our Alicenop people will do their part from now on, as they have done so far. As TBMM, we once again declare that we will continue to stand by the Palestinian brothers, to take care of their cases, and to support them under all circumstances. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi of Nurettin Canikli Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President [[Applause]] There are four motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that the second sentence of the third joke be changed as follows, and the third sentence removed. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Fatih Şahin Hilmi Bilgin İdris Şahin Yusuf Başer "In this scope, if there is damage to the administration due to transactions and actions which violate the rule of Article 2 of Law 4857 which constitutes a violation of the 7th joke, then disciplinary provisions against the administration will be imposed on these persons, due to the violation of each service agreement, due to a non-constitutional agreement, due to any monthly, payment, increase, compensation, and an eight-month fine on the part of the Article 4857," he said. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Öçaş MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and its Minister's Minister's Law's Law's Law's Law's Law, and its Law's Law's Law's Law's Law's bill's Bill's bill; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party, Me's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party According to Article 12/4/2007 and Article 2 of Article 8 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 2 of Article 8 of Article 8 of the Constitution, the term of the contract shall not be required under the scope of the subcommittee of the subcommittee (e) under which the subcontract of the subcommittee (I), under which the contract period is not exceeds six months," the statement said. In its third joke, we propose and propose that it be changed into a "twelve times" with a double "twelve times" with a "twelve times." Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim Illum Necati Özensoy Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Ankara MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılı MP İzklı İzlı İztay Çakılı; İstanbul MP İzktay Çeçılı; İstanbul MP İçaşılı, İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı, İstanbul MP İncını, İstanbul MP İçı, and Akçı İncı Akçı Akçı Akçı Akçı Akçı Akçııııı, İstanbul MP İsı MP İsakı MPıtıtı Akçı Akçııııılıılı, İstanbul MP İsı Akı MPı MPı MP İsıçııı MPı MPııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıııııı MPı MPı MPı MPı Akçı Akçı Akçı Akçııııııııııı MPııı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı Akçı Akçıçııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııııılıılıııııııııııııııııııııılıılıııılıılıııııılııııııııııııııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılıııııııııııııııılıılııııııııııııılıııııııııııılıılıılıılıılıılı We provide and propose that the clause be removed from the text. Love's Degenerate Vahaap Selects Sakine Öz Musa Çam Bulent Kuşoglu Free Special Müslim Sarı Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan İkturk Hasan Ören Muhammet Reza Yalçınkaya Mehmet Haberal The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0069par0086	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0087	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0070par0088	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0063par0089	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0071par0092	Mr. President, the 12th article is a clause in the Commission where the confederacy of three labour unions opposes, which he calls "a subcontractorial incident," and that it should have a different attitude towards preventing it. Now, when you look at the substance here, measures are being taken, so in its own way, here, the Privatisation Administration, the Treasury, the relevant institution, must have a proper opinion. Be careful, the system is simple; privatisation, then subcontractorization, then spread. I mean, these three are inseparable, and this is what they call in a small place, privatisation, subcontractorization and widespreadization, so... Now, here, I don't understand this law. I mean, you really don't have any experts as a government while the bureaucrats arrange these things for you, do you? Now, the opinion of these three ministries will be taken, and then the Council of Ministers will be appointed, and then the Council of Ministers will follow regulations. What do you know about that, fellas? That long. There's no need to do that, there's no need to do that, you can do that, there's a shortcut. I mean, there really is a shortcut. So, we've expressed in the Commission a matter that the government can take very easy measures on this, and even when we put in our opposition statement, we said: "Democratize the police with measures, not with Mad Dumrul punishments, remove the subcontractorization, my friends, solve the subcontractorization issue." How do you solve it? There are examples of this. The only way to prevent subcontractorization is to ensure that those workers' union status and freedoms are organized, and when you provide them, they will be able to seek their rights everywhere in the collective contract; and when they can, they will not be exploited. Now, here comes the government's fear of survival. I mean, why does the government encourage subcontract public enterprises and businesses that do not meet the need for personnel? Why? Why is subcontractorization growing more and more in public than in the private sector? It's a choice, a political event. The EC PARTY government has made subcontractorship a government policy and is doing it in public. But what's already been going on in the private sector is the public domain. Well, public workers have unions. What's their point of view when you think about it? Mr. Secretary, of course, there's a lot of convincing efforts in this kind of work, making calls from time to time, doing things. And every once in a while, the Council of Ministers is in charge of such things, saying, "Worker, employer, officer confederations, Department of Labor and Social Security, the Undersecretary of Treasury and the Office of State and the Ministry of Finance." I mean, that's very clever. Actually, not everyone can do that, so let me be clear here, so this is a skill thing. But my advice is this: I mean, really, workers in public institutions in Turkey, civil servants, service purchases, none of which are guaranteed by the standards of this cost of life, one; it's not enough, two. This system can only protect itself when it's organized. Give them collective agreements, union rights, protection of their freedoms to the workers, join them, share them. That's right. We say, we agree, but in this way, unfortunately, this multi-directional arrangement does not respond to anything, it encourages anything, so we think it should be removed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0072par0102	Thank you. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir, has asked for a word on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0073par0106	Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Secretary, valued representatives of public institutions and organizations, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the amendment motion of the 12th Amendment of the relevant clause, and I salute you all. Dear friends, this clause clearly reveals the security of the AKP government's fear of success. The AKP government, including Labour and Social Security Minister Mr Faruk Çelik, believes that the issue of action with this clause will be terminated, which is absolutely out of the question. In the Minister's first day of parliamentary talks, Mr. Secretary has made it clear and clear that the workers employed in the cleaning tender can no longer be employed in other jobs, there will be no problems in the procedure. So, what does it say? Mr. Kaplan has just said that before the public tender is made, public institution, institution and enterprises will have to get proper opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the Undersecretary of Treasury or the President of the Privatisation Administration. He is trying; he throws the ball and the responsibility over all institutions, and he pulls aside. A master artilleryman, a master artilleryman, turned the ball. If there is a counterintuitive tender, if the workers are employed outside the tender, or if a proper transaction is done, the bill will be taken behind the public bureaucrats who did it. Public bureaucrats have thrown the ball to the relevant institutions and organizations; not enough, they're throwing the ball to the bureaucrats who are now in charge of this tender, and they're going to build it for you, and they're going to be fined five months' wages in this bill, and the damage to the public is going to be done to these bureaucrats. If there's any mistake here, it's not the Labour Minister who's responsible, it's the public officials who are preparing this tender, it's the bureaucrats who are going to give it to you. I'd like to make a reminder of that right here. Dear friends, the AKP government is trying to resolve the problem before it reaches the source of the problem. This is not the right solution. The source of the problem, however, is the provision of public personnel and employees that the public needs. You can't solve this with the subcontractor system, you need to get enough personnel to the public. For example, there are new universities. The number of universities in Turkey, Hajji, has he found 170? About 170, Hajji. You know, colleges, colleges are opening up everywhere, and you're opening up. It's a good thing, it's a good thing, but when you open it, you don't give them enough staff. The university administration is willing to tender for some service purchases, says: "I'll take the contract. He's taking the service. Now, the men who are going to be employed, park yard work, cleaning, there, the kitchen, similar catering, employing staff in the office, working in the secretarial office, running information processing. Mr. Secretary, are you listening? Hacettepe University, Kokureli University, Çukurova University -- Mr. Labor Manager, you know -- has service purchases in medical schools. The man who founded the company, called it tourism, construction, textiles, whatever, has received the tender. Working workers, friends working on computers, cleaning jobs, working on X-rays, working on medical waste, working in biochemistry labs, working there, working here, doing all kinds of technical and health work. The union makes them members. He's going to take over, he's going to apply, but since the company that our Bulent friend founded is a tourism, construction company, the Labour and Social Security Minister doesn't authorize the union there because it doesn't have health in it, he says: "Ya, this is tourism, construction, what sector, textiles; you can't take over the health sector, and therefore you can't get a collective contract here." There are hundreds, dozens of cases that have been filed. Mr. Dr. Arzu Çerkekoglu, Secretary General of the Union of Revolutionary Trade Unions of Turkey, spoke to you and to the Chief Minister of Labor, the Deputy Minister, and explained the problems. There's a Supreme Court decision about that, folks, about the regular decisions. We want the Supreme Court decisions to be carried out, and we want to open the way for subcontractorship to become a union. If you don't solve this, this will continue to happen. Look, we have 11,000 health workers in the healthcare industry today, 11,000 years ago. There are 160,000 subcontractors in the health sector, hospitals, public and private, friends. Well, since we're going to rescue subcontractors, we're bringing them some rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...then I think it's imperative that we give them the right to a collective contract to eliminate this order. Therefore, this arrangement is incomplete and wrong. I'd like to say that again here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0074par0117	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0075par0118	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit05spe0074par0119	I'm going to put the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... the MPs, there are not enough decisions. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision to vote on the same proposals. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions of the same nature are not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 639. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Vice-President Mustafa Kalaycı and MP of the National Movement Party of Democratic Party (HDP) and Minister of the Minister of Law and Minister of Law and Minister of Law and Minister of Law and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of the Party of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of the Party of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of the Party of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Minister of the Party of Parliament and Minister of the Party of the Party of Parliament and Minister of the Council of the Party of Parliament and the Party of Parliament and the Party of Parliament and the Party of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Ministers and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council In its third joke, we propose and propose that it be changed into a "twelve times" with a double "twelve times" with a "twelve times." Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP İzket Celan's Party; İstanbul MP İzkat Aslanoğlu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Parliament's Party's Minister's Minister's Party of Law; Ankara MP İzktay Köçeşılı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çağalıtın's Minister's Minister's Party; Mehmet Çağeşeşeşı Akçı; İstanbul's Party's Minister's Minister's Party; Ankara MP İşt Çeçı İçıçıçıçı; İstanbul's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP and İstanbul MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party (Eğeşeşeşıııılı İçıçıçıçıııçıçıçıçıçıçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party); İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Ankara MP's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Party's MP's MP's Minister of İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's MP's Minister's MP's MP's MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Minister of Parliament's Minister of İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party; Ankara MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0076par0012	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0074par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0077par0014	Mr. President, a brief statement, if I may.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0074par0015	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0077par0016	Now, the Prime Minister's office... this is the importance of the 11th and 12th article, and the Council of Ministers will declare what jobs are helpful. That's the stuff we passed. Now, on the 12th article, the relevant institutions, which will employ employees in these subsidiaries, will be approved by the Treasury, Finance and Privatisation Administrations, and their institutions. It is extremely important that they receive this permit because they will apply to these institutions for clear approval of what work they will do, what work they are called "helpers" and how many employees they will employ there. The approval of these institutions is extremely important. Today, two hospitals are equal; 450 people are employed in a hospital as sub-employees, while 200 people are employed in a similar hospital. Why? This is the hospital that employs 450 people, it's not the help, it's another job, it's hiring this guy, it's the cleaning guy, he's working somewhere else. This is unacceptable. We said, "This is exploitation." We made it very clear. Now, what arrangement are we bringing here? We're saying: "Cleaning work"? You'll get a cleaning worker, you won't be able to work anywhere else. It's an important arrangement that brings this rule to an end. It eliminates pleasure, disciplines the system. Where there's service, where there's real work, it becomes clear, my friends. We can't agree. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0078par0020	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0079par0021	That doesn't hold up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0077par0022	There's plenty to go around.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0078par0023	Necati Özensoy has asked for a statement on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0080par0026	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a pledge on the 12th Amendment. Of course, Mr. Secretary, you're making a statement, but you're not dissolving the 11th Amendment, Mr. Secretary, you're expanding the subcontractorship. It's not the job description, it's the job that's there, it's the consulting services, it's the expertise, whether it's the real job, whether it's enough, even if the staff is enough, you're still opening the way for a tender on those jobs. So when we explain it like that, we have to read and write, and we can see what it says here as a result of our reading and writing, Mr. Secretary. So when you're saying something -- maybe our ruling parliamentary friends can take credit for what you're saying before they read the material here -- but please think about it and think about it that we've read it, that we know what these materials mean, and that we understand it. I mean, I guess what you're saying is to convince us, but there's no way you can convince us. Here, you've written it so clearly, there's nothing more to it than that. And then, in public or in business, in CITs, such activities or such studies... sir, will these be the solution to the OSCE's problems, for God's sake? So put that away once and for all: he's only allowed to hire half as many people in public economic initiatives as he does when he's retired, at least as much as he's retired. That's what every institution we've been to, every institution we've been audited. So 100 retired people, you can replace 50 people. Put this away first. So get the staff to qualify the public staff for public economic initiatives first. Sir, here you are, you're talking about, in the 12th article, except for the consultation tenders... as it already is... now, even if it's the real job, it's going to open up all kinds of employment in all public institutions, in the name of the profession of public economic enterprises. And the consulting fees and the staff are way over the top. I'll give you one example, like the one I've been living with. In recent years -- there's a subsidiary of BOTASH -- BOTAS International Limited -- I've been approached by a contract, and they've signed a consulting contract with someone, a citizen. WHAT is BOTASH International Limited? Here's the company that operates oil and gas transport through pipelines. They made a $500 a day deal with this citizen, $500 a day. I mean, they're gonna pay me $15,000 a month when they run it. I've looked at your profession, and I mean, is it really appropriate at this point of counseling, or is this friend, the ship's captain, to see if he has any merit? So, whatever the ship's captain has to do with pipelines, oil and gas transport, whatever he's doing in his area of expertise, and $15,000 a month, so that's what an engineer who works there will get $1,500 a month, he's under the guise of consulting services that will receive the salary of 10 engineers. I mean, look...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0081par0030	Did he get it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0080par0031	Oh, they canceled that contract after I brought it up, Mr. Kaçir, you remember, when you were president.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0081par0032	But tell me all about it.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0080par0033	If I hadn't brought it up... that was new, they had a new contract.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0081par0034	Did he take it until you brought it up?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0080par0035	Mr. Kaçir, the contract was new, I brought it up, they had to cancel. Oh, that's how we've been useful to the government. Thank God, I mean, I'm perfectly at ease with that, too. So, public economic initiatives... for one thing, there are 5,900 workers working at the Turkish Coal Company... look, Eynez, Lights, Atabacai. For God's sake, what kind of arrangements have been made? These workers don't work, these workers don't know what will happen now. I mean, with all that's going on, I don't think there's any use in this general law that's being brought in here to cover up something different. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0082par0039	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 13th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special from Nurettin Canikli "The following temporary clause has been added to Law 13-4734. The 20s Group (G-20) that Turkey will take over in 2015 is not subject to the Law and the Law on Public Financial Management and Control, except for its purchases of goods and services in 2014 and 2015 and its penal and ban provisions. As part of this joke, the basic and procedures for the purchases and production work and other issues are taken into consideration by the Finance Ministry, jointly prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Undersecretary of Treasury, and implemented by the Council of Ministers' decision. (2) Workers who work in local administrations or within the same workplaces, regardless of whether their workplaces are in the same place, can be subject to the same or similar business or business changes during the day, as well as between their own units or between a local administration's service or other subsidiaries. In accordance with this joke, the same or similar work or other employment changes are carried out in accordance with the conditions of employee's wages and other financial and social rights and severance and other matters related to severance and the conditions of Article 6360 of the First Amendment." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 13 of the current 639 Bill be changed in the following way. Sumer Oral Yusuf Halaçoğlu Erkan Akçay Mesut Dedeoğlu Ali Longırmak Ahmet Duran Bulut The following article has been added to the 13 ▪ 4734 Law. Under the 20s Group (G-20), which Turkey will take over in 2015, construction and service transactions in 2014 and 2015 are not subject to this law, except for criminal and restraining provisions, and the Law on Public Financial Management and Control of 5018. As part of this clause, the basic and procedures for the purchases and production work and other issues are taken into effect by the State Department's request and opinion and jointly prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury and the Council of Ministers' decision. Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Musa Çam Aykut Erdoğdu Blunt Kuşoğlu Özgür Special Muslim Sarı Süleyman Çelebi Muhamet Riza Yalçınkaya Hasan Ören Mehmet Haberal Sakine Öz The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0083par0078	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0084par0079	Mr. President, I need to make another brief statement.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0082par0080	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0084par0081	Now, fill in these public staffs. They've just expressed it from the stand. One of the purposes of this law is that if there's an arbitrary practice, it eliminates it. Jobs will take place in the main jobs the public needs, and other subsidiaries will be carried out as explained. The other issue is consulting services. The counselling services are very clear in Article 48 of the Public Contraction Act. I'd like to point out that there is no change in employment there. I mean, we don't agree. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0085par0084	Thank you. Idris Baluken, Bingol MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0086par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all again. We're expressing our views on every clause on the bag law, and we're asking for support for this motion, but I'm going to talk about something else in that five-minute period. You know, there's a presidential election campaign out there. There are three candidates, one out of three, Mr. Prime Minister. The Prime Minister recently announced his new Vision Document with a very fancy ceremony. In this Vision Document, he also spoke of numerous democracies, freedoms, changing Turkey, the new Turkey, and many of the former Turkey's oppressive, prohibitive, status-seeking understandings.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0087par0092	Isn't that right?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0086par0093	Right, so it's true what that Vision Document said. However, the same Prime Minister says that yesterday in Tekirdağ, HDP should not be in parliament. Now, which is the Prime Minister's vision, which we're curious about, which is the fact that it's written by consultants in the Vision Documentary that clearly doesn't believe very much, the new Turkish saying, or the fact that the party is closing, throwing parties out of Congress, arresting lawmakers? This approach should be explained by the Prime Minister himself. We're, of course, looking at sentences not from the text written in front of the paper, but from the subconscious or the mental state of consciousness, and we're actually condemning them from here, and we consider them a great misfortune. First of all, it is the people's will to decide whether HDP is in parliament or not. HDP is a party group that has come to parliament with millions of votes, and can only leave this Parliament at the will of the people. Telling HDP not to be in parliament despite the will of the people is the same as disrespecting the will of the millions who voted for HDP (HDP). So, every chance, we think of a prime minister saying that he's the address of the democracy, which shows that every time he gets stuck, he's the address of the democracy. We think it's unfortunate that he's going to have to be the Prime Minister for a party that's come out of the chest, and we say that the person who needs to fix this issue should be the Prime Minister. There have been many politicians who have said that HDP had to leave Parliament before; who came and who passed, but HDP has always come to this parliament with strength. Former Turkish politicians of the status quo, who said HDP should not be in parliament, who said they did not heed the people's will, took their rightful place in history's garbage bin. We remind you that this should be built on a concept that will be used in the campaign for the presidential election, which will include the stance, policy, 77 million; polarizing, campinging, stressing, consolidating -- rather than consolidating and embracing. I think you should warn those advisors who are preparing the Prime Minister's speeches. Whichever of these three presidential candidates is elected will be the common president of 77 million. Mr. Prime Minister will not have to say "I am not the President of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) when he goes to Çankaya Mansion tomorrow. But with this mind, it seems very difficult, it seems impossible to go to Chankaya. HDP will continue to remain in Parliament, but this mentality -- we express it here -- will never go to Chankaya. And I'll give you the reason he's talking about, this is the case that's targeting the HDP through flag politics. This shows that the Prime Minister is in a very tight spot, a nationalist blink on the ground. It's all a lie. There has been no problem with the flag of Turkey in all HDP conventions. The flag of Turkey is the common value of 77 million, the common value of all of us. It is also the work of the cheap politicians of the former Turkey to make politics by hiding behind the common value. I salute the General Assembly, saying that there will be no benefit for Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0088par0098	Thank you. Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the same proposals, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0089par0102	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 13th Amendment of this bag, which is a really big bag. I salute you all. A G20 summit will be held in Turkey in 2015, according to the 13th article. They want to spend the G20 summit in 2015 outside the scope of the Public Contraction Law and the Public Financial Management and Control Law. How much is the average spent on G20 peaks? We have looked before; it was made in London, made in Seoul, made in Toronto, made in Mexico. Between $500 million and $1 billion is spent on these organizations, and the government is asking us for a warrant like this: I'm going to spend about $500 million, and I'm going to spend it before I put it in the tender law, and I'm not going to put it in the Public Financial Management and Control Act. So let me spend it as I please, and let no one inspect me. This is the kind of law that the government has brought to us. So far, I've explained on this stand what kind of corruption there are among the exceptions in the tender law, and now we're faced with a new exception. Dear friends, this is not the first time we've had an organization. In 2009, we also made the IMF and the World Bank Council of Guvernors in Istanbul. I'll talk about a transaction there, a claim of corruption, and you can guess what can be done in the future. The 2009 IMF and World Bank Council of Guvernors in Istanbul, where hundreds of luxury cars were bought for a few days -- then we know how they were sold for a few days -- hundreds of photocopiers, thousands of printers, computers -- were even distributed to the Treasury while I was working in the Treasury, and we've seen how they've been wasted. But there is one important event: the construction of the cadet convention center. There's a Muhsin Ertuğrul stage in Valiye, it's going to collapse, there's going to be a convention center here, and the IMF and the World Bank Guvernör Board, which is why. It's an urgent business. It's a negotiation contract. Since 2004, everyone knows that the Council of Guvernors is going to be held, and we're going to be in 2009, and in order to earn a few days, there's an invitational tender called "emergency work." One company joins in, Symbol Construction, a businessman who supports the ruling party very much -- I don't blame the businessman, I blame the power -- the company of Fettah Tamince. The symbol Construction receives this tender with 207 million dollars in bargaining bids, gives a $20 million job increase, gives a $23 million price increase, and then there's a deal to light up its environment, again, for $28 million, which I light up almost the European side of Istanbul for $28 million, and then for a building's lighting tender. A building appears for 300 trillion lira -- which I say can be built for 150 million lira -- and then, after that, there's a rental contract for this place, and the lease tender is conditioned to have a business with 12,000 seats and 30 million liras. After that, three firms enter the tender: Ekotur, Tamtur, Fine Tourism. All three companies belong to Fettah Tamince. They're bidding on the same thing, like there's competition between them. After that, the tender for a building on the most beautiful part of my constituency results in: $75,000, plus 15 per cent of the turnover. (When you look at E, 75,000 lira, any small shop in the same area has more than that, but a building with 300 million on the best land of Istanbul is rented that way. Now, while we have these experiences, the government has done all these procedures under a new organizational authority, asking us to authorize a billion dollars, between $500 million and $1 billion. I'm telling you this blessed Friday, this Ramadan day. I know there will be corruption and abuse here. And knowing that, accept this law, or withdraw it if we can cause a breach in your conscience. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0090par0109	Thank you. I will submit the same motions to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0091par0113	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0090par0114	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Seçeli, Mr. Kören, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Öz, Mr. Öz, Mr. Serticer, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Bilgehan, Mr. Haberal and Mr. Demiröz. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask that the 13th Amendment of the current 639 Law Bill be changed in the following way. Sumerian Oral (Manisa) and his friends The following article has been added to the 13 ▪ 4734 Law. Under the 20s Group (G-20), which Turkey will take over in 2015, construction and service transactions in 2014 and 2015 are not subject to this law, except for criminal and restraining provisions, and the Law on Public Financial Management and Control of 5018. As part of this clause, the basic and procedures for the purchases and production work and other issues are taken into effect by the State Department's request and opinion and jointly prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury and the Council of Ministers' decision. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0092par0130	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0090par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0093par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0090par0133	It's Sumer Oral, Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Oral.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0094par0136	Mr. President, the 13th article included in the bill was established next year, in 2015, because of the transfer of the 20's Group's presidency to Turkey, which is simply called the "G20" Group. It's going to be a very important organization and a very important period. Because it is a group of two thirds of the world's population, two thirds of the world's population live in G20 countries. In these G20 countries, 90 percent of the world's wealth is also available. It has a multinational income of about 50 trillion dollars, and 80 per cent of the world's trade is made between these countries. 19 countries are members of this group, and the European Union is a member of the group. The four leading members of the European Union are directly members of the G20. As I have just stated, the group was formed in 1999, and was scheduled and announced in August 99 in that day's G7, and held its first meeting in Berlin on December 99, December 14th and 15th, and held its second meeting in Montreal on October 24th and 25th. I attended both meetings as Minister of Finance representing Turkey. So, this G20 event is not an institution founded during the Justice and Development Party, but it began at a time when the Justice and Development Party was not yet a political party. However, however -- I don't understand how it happened -- the Vision Document, which was announced by Mr. Prime Minister on July 11th, stated that G20 had never started with the AKP era, that there was no such group before. Hopefully, in three or four months -- because we're going to take over at the end of this year -- from Australia -- this mistake will be corrected, and hopefully, it won't happen again. Now, here's what we propose in Article 13 of this law: in this period, the productions and the purchases of goods and services regarding this coverage will be kept out of Turkey's basic laws of public tender law and the Public Financial Management and Financial Control Act. You really didn't have to do all this. We talked about it in the Plan and Budget Commission, but the government said it needed it, and it was time-sensitive, but our term presidency was clear here two or three years ago, especially when productions could have been carried out, and these basic laws would not have been cut from the edge of time to become a hole-infested arrangement because the Public Relations Act was extraordinaryly modern, in accordance with the standards of the European Union, but it was a transparent law that lost its property a little bit more every day. Now, how are these expenses going to be done when you're holding out of the Law of Contraction and the Law of Financial Management? The procedure and its bases are envisioned to be concluded by the Council of Ministers' decision, to be identified. Only the law states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Treasury will prepare a position, but will receive an opinion from the Treasury. While experience in such public spending and financial practices is in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance is the authority to comment. In that sense, the Ministry of Finance has only been given an opinion, and instead of simply being excluded from the preparation of these procedures, we say with our motion that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be taken into consideration by the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury. This is the same in the financial tradition of the state. Hopefully, our friends will find that right, and our motion will be accepted. Again, my dear President, I give you my regards and my fellow lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0095par0142	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 13th amendment of the current Law Bill 639 rows be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to the Law 13-4734. The 20s Group (G-20), which Turkey will take over in 2015, does not apply to the Law and Law on Public Financial Management and Control, except for its purchases of goods and services in 2014 and 2015 and its penal and ban provisions. As part of this joke, the basic and procedures for the purchases and production work and other issues are taken into consideration by the Finance Ministry, jointly prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Undersecretary of Treasury, and implemented by the Council of Ministers' decision. (2) Workers who work in local administrations or within the same workplaces, regardless of whether their workplaces are in the same place, can be subject to the same or similar business or business changes during the day, as well as between their own units or between a local administration's service or other subsidiaries. In accordance with this joke, the same or similar work or employment changes and other financial and social rights and severance benefits and other matters that depend on the conditions of Article 6360 shall be applied in the same way. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0096par0152	We agree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0095par0153	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0097par0154	We agree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0098par0155	Let's read the reason.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0095par0156	I'm reading the reason: It is intended that local management personnel operating in sub-employees can be carried out in accordance with the changes made in the Law on Business 4857 on the basis of the Law on Retribution 4734, provided that the same local authorities are subject to a change of employment or employment between their own units or businesses. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are four motions on the 14th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sentence of "fikra" under Article 14 of the current Law Bill 639 shall be changed to "fictions" and added to the clause. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman of Nurettin Canikli Look at your love "In the tenders, which have been tendered by Law number 4734 prior to 22/9/2012 and which can calculate the price difference in the tender document, more than half of the cost is due to the price cost of fuel costs due to the increase in prices due to the increase in the price tax, and as of the date of which this clause has entered into force, the temporary adoption of jobs that have been carried out without sanctions and temporary adoption of the proceedings carried out by the Council of Ministers on 22/9/2012." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party, and its Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Law, and its. Erkan Akçay Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı The main employer and sub-employee can't, cannot, can't, can't, can't pressure workers who are employed in the workplaces of public institutions and corporations within this law. The contract of employment of sub-employees who act in this way is annulled. The under-employee's main employer, who does not take any action against this application, will receive an administrative fine of 50 times the amount of a month's net payment, including a monthly grant, a raise, and compensation. The original employer and sub-employee officials are also processed under Article 118 of the Turkish Penal Code 26/9/2004 and Article 5237." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Süslim Sarı chooses the Vahaap of Love İzzet Cetin Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya Bkent Kuşoğlu Ali İhsan Kokturk Free Musa Pine Süleyman Çelebi Hasan Ören Sakine Öz Article 14 - 5/1/2002 and Article 8 of the Public Contracts Act 4735 added the following joke. "The collective bargaining process, which includes the sub-employees and their employees; which is defined in Article 2 of the Work Act 2/5/2003, established in the workplaces under this law; is carried out and concluded according to the provisions of Unions No. 6356, dated 18/10/2012 and Group Business Contract Act. According to this joke, the price difference is paid according to the collective contract of employment, as much as the price increase due to wages and social rights. The price difference will not be paid for collective agreements that are not run and are not concluded by the original employer." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of Article 14 of the current 639 Numbered Bill of Law, dated 5/1/2002, which stipulates to add jokes to Article 8 of the Public Contracts Act 4735. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0099par0197	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0095par0198	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0100par0199	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0095par0200	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0101par0201	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 14th Article of the current bill. I salute the General Assembly. Under the authorization of the sub-employee, the collective contract of employment, which will include sub-employee workers in public institutions, under Article 14 of the bill, is organised by one of the public employer's unions under the central administration, in accordance with the provisions of Unions 6356, and in the case of the payment of the fee differences. The difference in collective contract of employment, which is not concluded by public employer unions, will not be paid by the administration, it is said. Dear MPs, this provision, which violates the autonomy of a collective contract of employment, is contrary to the Constitution, as well as to international contracts that Turkey is on, and does not remove obstacles to the organisation of subcontractors. On the other hand, the fact that collective contract of employment talks on behalf of a private company is conducted by the Public Employers' Union violates the basic principles of Unions No. 6356 and the right to collective agreement. Dear MPs, this arrangement aims to control collective business contracts signed in subcontractors through public employers' unions, limiting improving workers' rights and wages. So that the price difference from the collective contract of employment can only be paid if the collective contract of employment is made with the Public Employers' Union. However, this arrangement does not remove the biggest obstacle to the organisation of subcontractors. Since the subcontractor relationship is considered a separate business, the business branch is defined as independent of the original employer's line of work, in effect whatever work is being done, the subcontractor's business arm is determined accordingly, and the workers can only be members of the trade unions in that line of work. It thus prevents workers from organizing their workplaces in trade unions in the main field of actual activity, and the main employer from going into a union struggle with its employees. Dear lawmakers, the majority of those working as contractors and contractors today who have found a job through contracting jobs, are unable to make use of the basic rights. Even if the boss lets you do part-time work, you have to do eight hours a day voluntarily, otherwise the money you earn is under the minimum wage. The rights, such as marriage, maternity leave, and money are already in the category that cannot be demanded. Even if it is incomplete, the legal guarantee of employment does not actually work in any way, just in the words of the word. Precious lawmakers must be completely eliminated from the use of subcontractors, including hiring the employer whenever he wants, employing the worker only for busy times, giving the worker no additional rights, sending him home whenever he wants, then calling him back if he wants to. If there is a provision of the same workplace services, such as health services at the hospital, academic services at the university, local services in the municipality, and subcontractors working together as road-builders, it is not part of the bill. Unless these obstacles to the organisation of subcontractors are removed, it is not really possible to talk about union rights unless workers are allowed to organise and negotiate freely in trade unions, including the main employer's workplace. Dear lawmakers, lastly, the bill requires that even if there is a collective contract of employment between the labour union and the public-employee union, even if the subcontract company changes, the continuity of union organisation may not be at stake. As a result, I respectfully welcome the General Assembly back from the draft text of this clause, which expands legitimate areas towards employing subcontractors on the legal ground and creates a constitutional problem.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0102par0210	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0103par0212	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0102par0213	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu; Yozgat MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyetlı MP Oktay Dikal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's Bill of Law and 13 MPs; İstanbul MP Izzet Çetin's Party; Ankara MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; İstanbul MP Sadır Durmaz and Milliyelılılılı MP İzlı İzlı İztay Kılı; İstanbul MP İztay Çekıçı; İstanbul MP İncın's Party; İstanbul MP İncı's Party; İstanbul MP İncımım İçı and İstanbul's MP İçı Akçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçı MP İçı MP İçı MP İçıçıçıçıçı; İstanbul Çaçı Akçı Başıı MP İsılıılı; İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsıçıçıçıçı MP İsı MPı MP İçııııı MP İsı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııılıııııııııılılılı MPı MPıçıçıçıçı MPıçı MPı MPı MPıçıçıçıçıçıçıçı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPııııııııııııııııııııııııııılılılılılılılılı MPıı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPıılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılılı MP and İstanbul MPı MPı MPılılılılı MPılı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıııııııııııııııııııııııııı MPı MPı MPıııııııılıılılılılılılılılılılı We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The Cervix of Love (Izmir) and its friends Article 14 - 5/1/2002 added the following joke to Article 8 of the Public Contracts Act 4735. "The collective bargaining process, which includes the sub-employees and their employees; which is defined in Article 2 of the Work Act 2/5/2003, established in the workplaces under this law; is carried out and concluded according to the provisions of Unions No. 6356, dated 18/10/2012 and Group Business Contract Act. According to this joke, the price difference is paid according to the collective contract of employment, as much as the price increase due to wages and social rights. The price difference will not be paid for collective agreements that are not run and are not concluded by the original employer." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0104par0226	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0102par0227	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0105par0232	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, this 14th article really, I'll tell you in advance, is a violation of constitutional regulations. The violation of the constitution is obvious because no one can become a member of the union, be forced to become a member of the union, be forced to quit. Public employers' unions are already not a proper arrangement as of the foundation since the beginning. When established, the body of the state was not a member of the public employer's trade unions, and now its ministries are members of public employers' unions and public employers' unions are members of the TİSK (TİSK), the Union of Turkish Employers' Unions. Thus, it is a concrete document that the government is collaborating with employers against their employees through TİSK. So I'll give you the price difference of a collective contract with a union that belongs to the public employers' unions, and if you sign it with other unions, it's not right to say that companies can't get contracts on their own. Dear friends, this arrangement is a truly grave arrangement in every way. I watched your proposal, which was just read, astonished and astounded as an example. In my speech on all of it the other day, I said, "This law has no virtue, this law has no morality." One of the most concrete indicators of your lack of morality is that soon the ruling party will bring up the motion we rejected in the Plan and Budget Commission. This motion has no morals, there is no honor in this motion because you have just withdrawn the 10th article, but you're coming back with a more dire arrangement than the 10th article. Dear friends, our public tender legislation, the final joke of Article 8 of the Public Contract Act 4735, states that no change can be made after the contract has been signed on the basis and procedures involved in the agreements. Now, with the arrangement you have made, you bring changes in the tenders made before 22/09/2012, and what's the price difference? If there's more than 50 percent of their expenses, or more than 50 percent of the fuel costs, you're putting the price difference in a fabricated index right here in front of us as an arrangement to direct it to the contractors who swear. I'm speaking to the honest and honest lawmakers of the AKP.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0106par0236	How dare you!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0107par0237	We're all honest.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0105par0238	This motion has no integrity, my friends.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0108par0239	We're all honest.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0105par0240	I'll tell you from the other side. Look, guys, if Germany is Germany today, it's because it obeys its rules. Germany implements public tender legislation in 1946, changing it twice so far. He's making those 2 changes because he wants the European Union to adapt to the European Union. What have we done? In January 2002, we changed public tender legislation, too advanced. We said, thefts, corruption will be prevented. We said, but the Public Contracts Law and Public Contracts Act did not apply to AKP's logic. Since it doesn't match the logic of the law, you've drilled into the law itself, 42, 58, 82, with special laws. So if you've drilled a hole in public tender legislation 182 times in 12 years, if you've opened a breach, it's enough to reveal a picture of your tenders and your understanding of government governance. If there really is going to be a fight against thefts, corruption, public tender legislation shouldn't be played so much. In those 12 years, you didn't make a single change in 2006. Dear friends, the result of all this patronizing, being so pro-employees, trying to offer them state opportunities with proposals and laws so that they can transfer money into the pool, tomorrow your children will be forced to hang around your neck like a label, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0109par0243	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion was not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party, and its Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Law, and its. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends The main employer and sub-employee can't, cannot, can't, can't, can't pressure workers who are employed in the workplaces of public institutions and corporations within this law. The contract of employment of sub-employees who act in this way is annulled. The under-employee's main employer, who does not take any action against this application, will receive an administrative fine of 50 times the amount of a month's net payment, including a monthly grant, a raise, and compensation. The original employer and sub-employee officials are also processed under Article 118 of the Turkish Penal Code 26/9/2004 and Article 5237." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0110par0251	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0109par0252	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0111par0257	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 14th Amendment. I salute you all. Under Article 14 of Article 14, if the subcontractors are organised and they contract collectively with public employers' unions, the collective agreement gives them the right to a collective contract, allowing the management to give the sub-employee a price difference, even if a price difference is at the end due to equity and social rights costs. One of the most important characters in this bag bill is that we always see the effort to pay the price difference. It's like a puzzle is starting to fit. We find this a violation of collective contract and union freedom and ILO standards, and we don't accept it. According to Article 51 of our Constitution, no one can be forced to join a union. The arrangement here compels membership in public employers' unions and is used as an instrument of paying the employer the price difference. In our proposal, the real employer or sub-employee cannot pressure workers working in public institutions and institutions to decide which union to join, nor can they encourage them. That's the gist of it. Let us also remember Soma. We also know very well that in Soma, the mining company made these choices by giving the workers an envelope against human rights and all sorts of values, by giving them all the will of the worker to choose who they belong to, who they choose to be a member of the union. Now, this is the first one. Dear friends, surprisely again, a proposal by the ruling party to add a joke to this 14th article. I mean, as soon as we saw the motion, we had a destinies first. Dear friends, in addition to this joke, there is a contract made according to the Public Contraction Act, and there is a provision in the construction work on the price difference of the tender document, which includes more than half of the cost if the fuel costs are created, including jobs that are carried out by temporary accepted jobs. It says, and an arrangement for a price difference. Now, he's telling the truth at the police station, as if he's surprised at the court, he's come on the lower commission, he's withdrawn; he's come on the top commission, he's withdrawn, and we've said a lot of times -- the interest of our fellow members of the ruling party -- that's what the price difference is, they haven't even found out. It's just a lobbying activity. Now we understand that power and bureaucracy bring this arrangement in order to avoid responsibility. This provision brings a change in the terms of the tender, and after the contract is signed, an arrangement that changes the terms of the contract. It says in the article: "If not, why do you bring it if there is a price difference in the contract document?" I just want to say that we don't think this arrangement is right. If there really has been a victimization, it must be calculated and given in concrete to the knowledge of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Despite all our questions, it's as if this information has been carefully avoided. We say no more! The 10th article regarding this price difference, you know, has just been withdrawn from the bill. So there's going to be a price difference again, and we don't know how many different prices are going to be given in the next article, so we don't know. There is absolutely no way to accept this, and we demand that this motion be withdrawn. We give you all our regards.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0112par0268	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sentence of "fikra" under Article 14 of the current Law Bill 639 shall be changed to "fictions" and added to the clause. "In the tenders, which have been tendered by Law number 4734 prior to 22/9/2012 and which can calculate the price difference in the tender document, more than half of the cost is due to the price cost of fuel costs due to the increase in prices due to the increase in the price tax, and as of the date of which this clause has entered into force, the temporary adoption of jobs that have been carried out without sanctions and temporary adoption of the proceedings carried out by the Council of Ministers on 22/9/2012." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0113par0276	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0112par0277	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0114par0278	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0112par0279	Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0115par0282	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, with this proposal, there is absolutely no new price difference, no price difference. There's not a single word for it. There's no word for it. If it is read carefully, the only thing that is done is for those who are already expected to be paid the price difference in its condition. So when you look at the statement, it's like this: it says that there's a verdict on how to calculate the price difference in the contract document. So, anyway, the price difference in its condition is expected to be paid, so it's one, so there's absolutely no price difference that doesn't exist. The 10th article, the 10th article that we cancelled, the 10th article that we withdrew, was due a new price difference, and a new price difference was expected to be paid.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0116par0284	And here's...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0115par0285	No, no, absolutely. Look, the sentence is coming in, and it's going on, it's just setting up a method to calculate the price difference.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0117par0286	Then why are you bringing it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0115par0287	It determines what it's going to be based on. There's no difference in price. It doesn't say. The price difference should already be in the conditional document, or this application won't work anyway. It's so obvious, so there's absolutely no question of a new price difference.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0117par0288	Why bring this arrangement if the price won't be different?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0115par0289	It's just that the current price difference is being decided, the Council of Ministers has a ruling, it's referring to him. Why is he referring? It refers to the price difference, dear friends. Therefore, there is absolutely nothing in this, not the slightest bit of favor, not a new lack of affection, not a thing. It's just a method. Other than that, there is no arrangement.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0118par0290	Then what's the point, Mr. Canicli?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0115par0291	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0293	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0120par0294	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0295	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough decisions, the motion has been adopted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Kıkalal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çeçı; İstanbul MP İzlüt Çaşı; İstanbul MP İzkalı; İstanbul MP Şeker's Party's Democratic Party and İstanbul MP's Party's Party of Ministers; İstanbul's Democratic Party of Ministers and Minister's Democratic Party of Ministers; İstanbul MP İzkat Tuzel's Party; İstanbul MP İzket Çeçı; Şeçı İçı İçı İçı, İstanbul MP İsı Akçı, İstanbul MP İsın İsı Akçı, İstanbul MP İçı, İstanbul MP İsıçıçıçıtı MP İsı Akçı, İstanbul MP İsıçıçı MP İsıçılı, İstanbul MP İsılı, İstanbul MP İsı, and İstanbul MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı MP İsı İsı Akçı Akçııııııııılıılıılıılıılıılıılıılı MPı Akçı MPılı MPı MPı MPı MPı MPılı MPılı MPı MPı MPıçıçı. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Tanju Özcan Rahmi Kıledıklı Sakina Öz Vahaap Selects Izzet Cetin Ali Original Day Musa Çam Bült Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Ali İhsan İkturk Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya Mehmet Haberal The declaration of "cleaning, food, protection and security" in Article 28 of Article No. 5018, dated 15-10/12/2003 and added the following joke to the same article. "In the purchase of public administrations under general administration in the service of those who are of a continuous nature under the First Amendment (e) of Article 4/1/2002 and Article 4734 of Public Contraction Act 62 (e), the upload period can be reduced by three years and may be shortened by the approval of the senior manager, provided the time is given the necessary grounds. However, contractors cannot in any way transfer the service to the third person or institutions, the deals with sub-contractors are nullified from the start. In such cases, the administration has to put provisions on the terms of the tender and look after them for re'sen. In addition to administrative and criminal sanctions on public officials who fail to comply with these obligations, any public harm will be done from contractors and concerned public officials. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Öçaş MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and its Minister's Minister's Law's Law's Law's Law's Law, and its Law's Law's Law's Law's Law's bill's Bill's bill; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party, Me's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu "MEDDE 15/10/12/2003's "financial rentals provided in the fourth joke of Article 28 of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018"; "except for food services (except for food and emergency services under the fifth joke) and" has been added to the term "saltification, food, protection and security" (except food services under the fifth joke). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We now propose and propose the release of the 639 Numbered Bill of Law, dated 10/12/2003 and Article 28 of Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, and Article 15 of Article 4/1/2002 and Article 4734, which stipulates a change in Article 62 of the Public Relations Act. İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0121par0331	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0332	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0122par0333	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0334	Yes, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0123par0335	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0336	I'm reading the reason: This text, which creates legitimate areas for legal subcontractors and public purchase of services with the amendment, must be removed from the draft text, which will create a constitutional problem. With change, these problems are intended to be resolved. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Öçaş MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister and its Minister's Minister's Law's Law's Law's Law's Law, and its Law's Law's Law's Law's Law's bill's Bill's bill; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party, Me's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends "MADE 15/10/12/2003's "provided by financial rent in the fourth joke of Article 28 of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018"; "except for food services (except for food services and emergency services under the fifth joke) and" has been added, as the term "saltification, food, protection and security." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0124par0346	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0347	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0125par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0119par0349	Kenan Tanrıkulu, İzmir MP, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0126par0351	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion on the bill we're negotiating. I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in the matter we have discussed, it is estimated that the duration of the load is three years in service purchases based on the work of subcontractors in the 28th article of the Law on Public Financial Management and Control No. 5018, titled Sari for the years to come, and that the period may be shortened in terms of the continuous service purchases of subcontracted workers in the public. Dear lawmakers, in recent years there has been a wide window of subcontracting with conscious policies, and there has been no public subcontractorship. Subcontractor work is no longer an exceptional and technical practice, and it has become a very common form of employment. Dear lawmakers, as almost every speaker has stated, this bill first came to the relevant commission in 61 articles, and was eventually launched into your presence as soon as it came out of this commission and landed on the General Assembly, over 148 essential substances and over 45 provisional substances that have been put on it, which have been changed by about 45 laws. In the 12 years period of AKP power, the bag bill, referred to in public as a package of pardons, was made more populism and a means of election economics. This bill, which we discussed today, is in the form of a chain of amnesty, and has ignored fiscal discipline, and has left aside the technical requirements for budget and financial control's budgets. Dear friends, it has been forgiven for this bill that the tax collector's tax collection from consumers was not put in the vault of the state at the time. The other point is that the money the owners withdrew from the company's vaults was in that safe on paper, which was actually spent by the owner, but also by the company's imaginary money. Thus, these type of bag arrangements are practices in the country's economy designed to save the day, leaving some damage and heavy burdens to the present and the present. For 12 years, it has been unfortunate that the tax our country needs and has always been spoken of from these platforms has been spread to the ground, taxed as much as it earns from the taxpayer, and in short, a fair tax system has not been delivered. In this case, in the past 12 years, eight pardons were introduced by the government in a twelve-year period, and some of them were implemented and eventually expected to come into the budget. However, if the financial policy, which would be carried out seriously and properly, could be reduced tax rates and created a more expendable income in the hands of the citizen, the income would continue to remain under record, and this would go into expenses. Dear lawmakers, since the finance policy, which has not been on the agenda of the economy administration in recent years, has not been fully and properly implemented, this subcontracted law that we're discussing today will not break the essence of the work, and the arrangements for Soma will be forgotten on one side. We always say: Look, the Public Contract Law, which took effect in the 57th Government period, January 4, 2002, has been changed 32 times in response to the written question motion I asked the Minister of Finance -- and when we look at it from his own mouth and with other regulations, we see that we have faced a number of changes much more than that. We're always here as a group, bringing in laws that would actually contribute to our economy and not make a contribution. With such intentions and thoughts, I salute our General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0127par0360	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Ankara MP İzzet Çetin's; İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyelı MP Oktay Öçal; İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tuzel's; İstanbul MP İzzet Çeçı; İstanbul MP İzkalı; İstanbul MP İzkat Çeçalı's Minister's Party's Minister and Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Ottoman's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Mehmet Çapı İçı; İstanbul MP's Minister's Minister's Minister's Democratic Party; Şeçı İçı İçı İsı İçı İçı İçın İçı Akçı; İstanbul MP İçı İçı Akçı MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party (TK) and İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of the Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party of the Minister's Minister's Minister's Minister's Party of the Minister's Party of the Minister's Party of İstanbul MP's Party; İstanbul MP's Party of the Minister's Party of İstanbul MP's Party's Party's Democratic Party (HDP's Party's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party of Turkey's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Tanju Özcan (Bolu) and his friends The declaration of "cleaning, food, protection and security" in Article 28 of Article No. 5018, dated 15-10/12/2003 and added the following joke to the same article. "In the purchase of public administrations under general administration in the service of those who are of a continuous nature under the First Amendment (e) of Article 4/1/2002 and Article 4734 of Public Contraction Act 62 (e), the upload period can be reduced by three years and may be shortened by the approval of the senior manager, provided the time is given the necessary grounds. However, contractors cannot in any way transfer the service to the third person or institutions, the deals with sub-contractors are nullified from the start. In such cases, the administration has to put provisions on the terms of the tender and look after them for re'sen. In addition to administrative and criminal sanctions on public officials who fail to comply with these obligations, any public harm will be done from contractors and concerned public officials. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0128par0369	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0127par0370	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0129par0371	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0127par0372	Tanju Özcan wants a word on the motion, Bolu MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0130par0375	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to say a few words, if you'll excuse me, about Gaza, with all its warmth today, before I express my views on the arrangement. In particular, we condemn this persecution of the Muslim people of Gaza in Ramadan, and we condemn it with violence and hatred. I have no doubt that the terrorist state of Israel, who committed this persecution, will take its rightful place on the history page. Hopefully, they'll leave the area faster than they can shed any more blood. Of course, it would be wise to say on this occasion, members of the law: I see that our government has not taken sufficient steps in this matter. I mean, with all due respect, it's not just screaming and brushing Peres. Look, we couldn't do what Venezuela and Chile did. Venezuela has cut off diplomatic ties, and Chile has cut off all economic ties. Where is Venezuela, Chile, Gaza? Our Prime Minister says we're behind the Gazan people, even though no one in the world speaks at every turn. But it doesn't happen with words, it doesn't happen with false bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0131par0380	What do you want to do?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0130par0381	I'm telling you what you need to do today, you need to cut diplomatic ties right now, you can't solve this problem or make a noise by lowering it like that. It is not solved by going around Asia Minor, walking around like a fake bully, saying things behind Israel's back. It's not unraveling, we expect you to take concrete steps, the public expects you to, the Turkish people expect you to. This can't be happening!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0132par0383	Is that the opinion of your party, Mr. Tanju?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0130par0384	Congressmans, about the bag of legislation that has been discussed today, I would like to say that you are deceiving people on this blessed day, lawmakers, let me make it clear.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0133par0386	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0130par0387	The public believes that today, with this bag of legislation, there are arrangements that only the miners in Soma will benefit from, or families who have lost relatives in Soma. Yes, there are arrangements for that, there are positive steps, and when we don't find them enough, we're already delivering the demands -- our friends in the commission, we are here -- but, friends, I'm sorry, you're exploiting the pain and suffering of workers and labor families in Soma. Look, there's a lot of regulations in this bill about Soma workers, about the dead miners or their families, and now you're complaining, you're saying the opposition delays it. May our fellow workers and family members of Soma take a good look at this. Look, the AKP doesn't bring this arrangement to protect your rights, to protect your law, to protect your families, to protect them. That's the obvious goal, that's the goal, that's the real goal. If the goal was not different, what was the arrangement that led to two years of implementation of judicial decisions in this bag, or what was the arrangement that would result in the exile of at least 700,000 teachers in Turkey? There's a lot more stuff. My friends and I will continue to talk about this in the future, but it's a shame what you're doing. You're exploiting people's pain, exploiting people's pain so that they'll have other goals. That's wrong. And Mr. Secretary is here, and I wish our Minister of Labor had been here -- and I've been thinking about something. Yes, there's an arrangement about subcontractors, the contract is up to three years, and you're saying that we, the public, are responsible for severance pay. This is not a new issue, it's not a gain. All my friends here who are lawyers know. The Supreme Court solved this problem years ago. Since public contractors can't get their rights from subcontractors, subsidiary companies, this public employee is already the main employer in terms of the state, the public opinion, and the concerned ministry already holds responsibility for compensation. The Supreme Court has its doubts about this, its decision to unify the chamber. There's no point in presenting this as a new thing, as if it were a blessing, and there's no point in tricking our fellow workers like that. I'm going to say what I have to say on the matter, hopefully, in the following articles. I salute the General Assembly for now.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0134par0395	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0135par0396	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0134par0397	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0135par0398	Mr. President has insulted our Prime Minister by calling him a fake bully. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0136par0399	Bullying isn't an insult.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0137par0400	That was a metaphor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0138par0401	He's just rude as an uncle, so what? He could be a nicer uncle.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0139par0402	Here you go. Mr. Canicli, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0406	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The Palestinian issue, really, is a very important issue for us. We feel it in our hearts, we live it, and it's been a sincere defense for years. We've never acted; yes, we've never acted.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0141par0408	How could you not?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0142par0409	Don't, Mayor, don't!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0410	There may have been some role-playing, and we're seeing some role-playing.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0143par0411	But that's not what Numan says.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0412	Now, really, I don't think it's necessary to...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0143par0413	He talks like a deputy. He says Numan is saved. He speaks like a deputy, says the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0144par0414	What about the medal, the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0415	Allow me. There's a way to test it, dear friends. So this party, this staff, the leader of this staff...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0144par0417	Give me the medal.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0418	...is he sincere about this, or isn't he, or who is sincere about it, or who isn't, who will be the judge of that?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0144par0419	Where's the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0145par0420	At the end of April, you were going to Gaza, what happened?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0421	There's only one way to test it, dear friends.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0146par0422	The missile silo in the sphere?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0147par0423	Where's the medal, the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0424	You'll ask Palestine, you'll ask the Palestinians, you'll ask the Gazans.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0147par0426	Where's the medal, the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0427	Look, one of the most popular names in Palestine, Gaza, is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, my dear friends, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0147par0428	Mr. Canikli, where's the medal, the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0429	Why? Why? Why not other people?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0148par0430	That was ages ago.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0431	Why not other people? I mean, other people talk about Palestine, how much they love it, how much they're there for you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0149par0432	Where does the Prime Minister's son transfer to?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0433	But our brothers and sisters in Gaza, our brothers in Palestine, give the most names of Turkey, including Recep Tayyip Erdogan. When he went out on the street, he had a poster of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a photograph.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0150par0434	Where is it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0149par0435	Where is it?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0436	What does that mean, what does that mean, dear friends?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0150par0437	Where's the medal, the medal?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0438	So our Palestinian brothers sincerely believe that they have seen Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his team together.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0151par0439	Why couldn't he go to Gaza?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0440	No more photos for him, no more photos for Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0151par0441	Why couldn't he go to Gaza?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0442	We only have a photo of our President-General Recep Tayyip Erdogan as President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0152par0443	Why didn't he go to Gaza, Gaza?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0153par0444	He couldn't go to Gaza!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0140par0445	It's a sign of intimacy. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0154par0449	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0155par0452	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0154par0453	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0155par0454	Sir, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0154par0455	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Special, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuvoğlu, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Seçar, Mr. Öner, Mr. Çayük, Mr. Kulkuloğlu, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Keskin and Mr. Tamaylıgil. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 16th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 16 of the Perpetual Code to the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Section 639. Nurettin Canikli Gökcen Özdoğan Enç Osman Boyraz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramadan Can Sehabattin Karakelle The second joke, dated 16-20/6/2012, of Article 2 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, 6331, was added to the bell. νe) International navigational status of οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οne οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οther οf οf οf οf οther οf οf οf οf οf οther οther οf οther οf οf οther Now I'm going to have three motions in common. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Manisa MP Erkan Akçay's party Mustafa Kalaycı and Milliyet Movement Group MP Oktay Ökalal's; Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz and Milliyet Movement Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister for Law and Law's Decisions, Oktay Ökalalalal; Heromarash MP Mesut Akçayoğlu's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party; Mustafa Kalakcı and the Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party of Law and its Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Parliament's Parliament's Parliament's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Parliament; Mehmet's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Minister's Minister's Party's Minister's Minister;, and its Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Minister's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party's Party Erkan Akçay Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı The signatures of the other motion are: Süslim Sarı chooses the Vahaap of Love Ali İhsan İkturk Hasan Ören Bkent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Sakina Öz Musa Pine Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Özgür Special Mehmet Haberal The signatures of the other motion are: İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0156par0496	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0154par0497	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0157par0498	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0158par0499	Motive...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0154par0500	I'm reading the reason: It is dangerous for ship employees working internationally to be excluded from the legislation. Its solution is to seek out a better, healthier work health and safety area with relevant international agreements. This arrangement against the employee was intended to be removed from the draft text and to be given an opportunity to make new arrangements in favour of the employee. Yes, it's Alim Ilm, Kütahya MP who wants to speak on the same motions. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0159par0505	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on the 16th article of the bag bill 639 rows under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I ask God's mercy on our Palestinian brothers and sisters who lost their lives and had died since before last night, the ground attack launched by Israel. I would like to express that I condemn this crime of humanity and this inhumane practice that Israel has started. However, I would like to share with you at times, especially in Ramadan, the reason why such a human crime has become a habit of this spoiled child, Israel, should be thoroughly investigated and given the necessary response on time. At least right now, I think the Jewish Medal of Courage given to the Prime Minister should be returned immediately. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, this clause provides a change, particularly in the navigational process of international aviation and shipping -- which is to say, during the actual transport process -- is not part of the Law on Health and Safety. So that sums it up in the bill. It is said that the high value of the fleet of ships that have been growing in recent years should not be held under obligation by the Law on Health and Safety to anyone while they are actually doing their work, but also by their father's pull, to travel freely in international territory. You know who we mean. Whoever has a fleet in Turkey today is brought in only for these reasons. Because the Health and Safety Act came out two years ago, June 20, 2012. And we said some things at the time, and the government couldn't think of it at the time, so now, right now, the bag is taking it out of context very urgently in the law. Well, you'll know who's outside the scope of the matter, let me count them, what an important substance it is. One is the activities of the Turkish Armed Forces, general law enforcement forces, and the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, except for those in the factory, maintenance centre, sewing house and so forth. These are activities beyond the scope of the Health and Safety Act. Another was the intervention activities of disaster emergency units, and another was the workhouse, education, security and occupations of occupational health and safety services, which were held outside the scope of the Health and Safety Act, while the other was producing goods and services to their own account without employment, while the other was improving during execution services for prisoners and prisoners. Now, there's a new joke, which has nothing to do with them, which has nothing to do with them: the navigational state of international carriers and airlines. You can understand the urgency of entering this bag into the law. Dear lawmakers, the laws passed by individuals hold the fingers of these laws as responsible as those who have written and enforced the law. Our duty is to warn you. Only Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan hopes that you will not approve this law, which will benefit the safety of Mr. Minister of Transport's sons, so I remind you once again that you must support our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0160par0515	Thank you. Musa Çam, MP of İzmir, has asked for a statement on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0519	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. Mr. Prime Minister held Friday's prayer in İstanbul. He left there. He went to Burma. He visited the Governor's office. He held a rally for the President's election at 5:30. He is returning. He will now attend the AKP's honor meeting in Yenikapı district of İstanbul. The Foreign Minister also said Friday prayer in Istanbul today, where he is attending a work event at the Caribbean Friendship Association. In Gaza, people are also killed. We'd like Mr. Foreign Minister to come here and inform the Grand National Assembly of these two days of painful attacks. Later this evening, around 10:00 p.m., they'll be negotiating with the Palestinian president. We want Mr. Foreign Minister to come here tomorrow, tell us about the events of Gaza, Palestine, genocide, the atrocities of Israel against the people of Gaza, against the Palestinian people. Dear friends, this arrangement brings in some coverage and exceptions in the second joke of Article 2 of the Law on Health and Safety. This is the international sea route and the navigational state of the air carriers that he's trying to take into account, folks. So, what are these guys? With this clause, international shipping and air travel vehicles are excluded from the Law on Health and Safety, clear and clear. Is that correct, Mr. Irony?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0162par0524	Right.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0525	But not Ilhan Demiröz, Vedat Demiröz, because ilhan Bey is also being taken here. This article is produced in a tragic way, friends, such as international rules and compliance with contracts. It's not clear that pre- and post-season occupational health and safety laws have been removed from the scope of the law during the course of the course. Mr. Nicemaya, are you here?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0163par0528	There.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0529	Mr. Goodmaya is here. Mr. Niceima, Mr. Hodja, for example, the ship is in port. He has occupational health and safety when he's in the harbor. But the ship took the load. There's a captain on board, there's a wheelman, there's workers working, there's them, there's these. After the ship's navigation, 20, 25, 20 personnel on board are out of range. Can that happen, guys? Can that happen, guys? Mr. Wise Light, Mr. Hodja, is that possible?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0164par0531	If you have a ship, you have a ship!) Only if you have your son's ship.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0533	Mr. Akçay, is that possible?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0165par0534	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0536	Is that gonna happen? Workers, personnel, all within the ship's scope of occupational health and safety, but as soon as the ship moves, it is out of business health and security from the moment it reaches international waters. Why? They say that our private sector, our businessmen, can't compete internationally enough, so what do we do? Let's take them outside the scope of occupational health and safety.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0166par0537	It is subject to ISM Code, which is subject to International Safety Management Code.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0538	Now, my friends, Mr. Light said...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0166par0539	The ISM is subject to Code. He is subject to the International Security Management Code.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0540	This arrangement wasn't on the subcommittee. Mr. Light, a revelation has come from above on the top commission, which has been added with a motion. So, who's this for, guys? Bilal and Burak were specially arranged for the brothers. It's not enough! Turkey has Onassis, they have Onassis. Turkey also has Onassis, with great Onassis in yacht and transport, friends. One of them is Bakili Yıldırım. Binali's B (B) is a former Minister of Transport, who owns a large fleet of transports, founded by the children of former Minister of Transport, Mr. Bülli Yıldırım, who owns a large fleet of transports and transport jobs in the shipping and shipping sector. A company called Mr. Bayi, from Bakili Yıldırım, from,,,, A, friends from Y.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0167par0542	Mr...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0168par0543	Bye-bye!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0544	Now, the problem is... the ports, companies, ship transports and cargo transports in Turkey are exactly like this, but we also have to say: Look, Gaza is being bombed. Burak and Bilal are the cities of Israel, the ports of Israel. On the one hand, you'll say "one minute," and on the other hand, you'll do the transfer work in Turkey, the transportation work in Israel. It's oportunism, it's hypocrisy, it's a hypocritical sense of politics, my friends. You guys need to leave this. [[A round of applause from CHP, MPP and HDP rows]] In order to answer for the blood of our fellow citizens, who are in Gaza, you must give up these oportunist policies here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to say we're against this arrangement.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0169par0549	You don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0170par0550	Get out of here!
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0161par0551	No exceptions. The people of Gaza are not alone, my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0171par0555	For God's sake! Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God,
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0172par0556	Thank you. Mr. Vural, please, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0173par0560	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, first of all, of course, it's very important that four political parties condemn the attacks on Gaza as partners. However, I'd like to make a point: Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has an official social media account. From this account, the letters of Mr. Cemil Cicek have been sent to the presidents of parliament, but there is no notice of this attitude by the four political parties. I'm saying that there's a lack of social media coverage of the application of four fezleki ministers in an environment where all political parties have a common position against Gaza. I urge you to step in on this and give the necessary warning. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0174par0563	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0175par0566	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Nurettin Canikli just told me that the children born in Gaza are named Recep Tayyip from the bench in the Middle East. I'm curious about something, too, and I want to know. The Prime Minister said in March 2013 that he would go to Gaza in April. Later, when April came, he said he'd leave in May. Then American Foreign Minister Kerry said, "You can't go to Gaza without asking us." He said, "Mr. Prime Minister, the style of Kerry didn't look good." He said, "I'm going to Gaza in June 2013." It's now July 2014. When will the Prime Minister go to Gaza? I wonder if Mr. Canikli can make a statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0570	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0175par0575	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0576	I'll call the number of decisions I need. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's enough to make a decision. The motions of the same nature have not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 16 of the Perpetual Code to the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Section 639. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç (Antalia) and his friends The second joke, dated 16-20/6/2012, of Article 2 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, 6331, was added to the bell. νe) International navigational status of οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οne οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οther οf οf οf οf οther οf οf οf οf οf οther οther οf οther οf οf οther Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0177par0588	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0589	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0178par0590	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0591	I'm having it read. The Law on Occupational Health and Safety 6331 presents difficulties in shipping, due to its unique working conditions and special circumstances. However, it has been observed that there has been no difficulty in implementing the law, since flight times were short in air transport and vehicles were easily accessible. Editing and air transport will not be exceptioned to the laws of the law and the existing application will continue. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0179par0597	We want roll call. [AK PARTY]) Their voices, applause (!)
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0598	He's got a roll call, I'm doing it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Sarılebaş, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Silver, Mr. Erdoğdu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Elector, Mr. Ören, Mr. Pine, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Öner, Mr. Tamaylıgil, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Özkan. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Mr. Mehmet Akyürek...
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0180par0603	No, he's not here.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit06spe0176par0604	Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-18sit07spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 119th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote of Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli and his friends' motion, the roll call was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you ten minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Yes, lawmakers, since there are no more meetings in the second round of roll call, it is now 14 o'clock on Saturday (July 19th 2014) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of the decision. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
