tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. According to our agenda, we will begin negotiations with the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Members of parliament, the Commission Reports 656 and 656 have been printed and distributed with the 1st Amendment and 657th rows. I will now promise Mr. Mehmet Simsek to give the government's presentation speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute and cherish your grand delegation and our dear citizens who are watching us on their screens. Today we begin negotiations with the Central Management Competitive Accounting Bill of 2013 and the Central Management Budget Law of 2015. I thank the esteemed President and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, my fellow ministers, and representatives of the public administration, who have worked so hard and selflessly to bring these bills to the General Assembly. Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief assessment of the global economy first. It's been six years since the global crisis, but there are still serious problems facing the global economy, and we can't get back to pre-crisis levels. The global economy is expected to grow below expectations and potential by 3.3 per cent in 2014. In this, fundamentally, the growth of the US economy below its expectations, the stagnation in the eurozone, geopolitical tensions, the slowing growth in developing economies has been decisive. Global growth is estimated to be 3.8 per cent in 2015 and around 4 per cent in 2015-2019. Of course, the proportions are well below the 5 per cent growth achieved during the pre-crisis period. Growth in advanced economies is improving, but it's watching below potential. In 2013, the developed countries grew by 1.4 per cent, while in 2014 it was estimated to grow by 1.8 per cent and by 2.4 per cent during 2015-2019. Growth performance in developing countries is also under the pre-crisis period due to poor demand and structural problems. The relative tightening of global financial conditions, the slowing down of the Chinese economy, and low commodity prices have been decisive in this slowdown. These countries are estimated to grow by 4.4 per cent in 2014 and 5.2 per cent in the next five years. Other than China and India, developing countries are estimated to grow by 2.7 per cent in 2014 and 3.6 per cent in 2015. In the global economy, the increase in trade volume is still far behind the pre-crisis levels, under the influence of weak demand. During 2003-2007, global trade volume grew by 8.4 per cent year-on-year, while only 2.9% during 2008-2013. World trade volume is expected to increase 3.8 per cent in 2014 and 5 per cent in 2015. Global inflation remained low under the influence of limited recovery in global economic activity. The IMF estimates global inflation, 3.6 per cent in 2013, will be 3.9 per cent in 2014 and 2015. In the case of the recent decline in energy and industrial metal prices, inflation can also occur at the bottom of these estimates. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the global economy is still facing serious problems. Now I want to tell you about some of the basic risks facing the global economy. The most important risk facing the global economy is that slow growth in the eurozone continues and the region enters a deflationist process, such as Japan in the 90s. This is one of the biggest risks for Turkey's economy. The slower growth in developing countries, the more severe decline in the Chinese economy, the more fundamental risk we face. Another important risk is that the FED -- the U.S. Central Bank's interest increase -- could be counterproductive in financial markets. However, the continuing implementation of the European and Japanese Central Bank's expanding monetary policy is an element that balances the risk to a certain extent. Meanwhile, increasing geopolitical tensions arise as another risk that could bring down the global economic outlook. Mr. President, I'd like to brief you on the appearance of the Turkish economy in this department. As planned in 2013, we estimate that the growing economy of Turkey, which grew by 4.1 per cent, will slow down a bit in 2014 and grow by 3.3 per cent. Now, of course, today we have the third quarter number, 1.7%. That's actually close to what we predicted. We were predicting 2.2 percent growth in the third quarter, which is 2.2 percent in our 3.3. The fundamental deviation here stems from the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, we've had the biggest drought in agriculture in the last 13 years, and in the third quarter of agriculture, you know that the economy has a huge weight and agriculture, of course, is shrinking, and the third quarter is a bit lower than 2.2 percent, and 1.7 percent of what we predict is a third quarter. Thus, we see realistic growth in the medium-term program, which is still close to what we predicted. Of course, the low-directional revision of growth estimates is not unique to Turkey. The IMF revised growth projections for 2014, two downwards for both developed and developing countries this year. Turkey's growth performance in 2014 is more than 1.3 per cent for developing countries in Latin America, 2.5 per cent for developing Europe, 2.7 per cent for developing countries other than China and India. Of course, Turkey achieved this growth performance despite continued economic recession in our largest trade partner in the European Union, the decline in domestic war and global capital in Iraq and Syria. So it's clear and clear that we're going through a difficult conjunctural. In 2015, the expected recovery of the global economy, the acceleration of growth in our trade partners, we predict that growth by a certain amount of domestic demand will be 4%. Furthermore, the recent decline in oil prices is permanent, which, of course, will support the upward growth. As for the medium long deadline, political stability, strong public financial balances, solid banking sector, dynamic Turkish private sector, our young population, healthy household balance sheet, successful export market diversification, flexible courtship regime and macrohythm policies will continue to be the factors that support growth and make Turkey resistant to external shocks. Of course, to be less affected by the problems and regional problems of the global economy, we have prioritized stability with our strong financial balances during this period. We're going to draw a frame like this for 2015. At a time when the public deficits and debt stocks of many countries are high, strong public financial balances separate Turkey from other countries in a positive way and serve as anchors. In the general state deficit, Turkey has provided Maastricht Kriteri (Maastricht) for the last ten years, except for 2009, the year of the global crisis. We expect the GDP deficit, which was 10.8% in 2002, to be 0.8% in 2014. It is less than one-third of Maastricht Kriteria, and less than half of the developing country's average. At the end of the mid-term programme period, we anticipate a 0.1 per cent state surplus. On the other hand, we aim to reduce the GDP to 33.1 per cent in 2014 and to 28.5 per cent at the end of the programme. As of 2014, our debt burden is about one third of the eurozone average and nearly half of Maastricht Kriteria. Thanks to financial discipline, our country has achieved significant gains. In 2002, 85.7 per cent of tax revenues went into interest payments, while today the rate was reduced to 14.3 per cent. This is the lowest rate since 1983. In 2002, the rate of domestic debt at 62.7 per cent fell to 8.1 per cent as of December 2014. Real interest rates dropped from 25.4 per cent in 2002 to negative 1.4 per cent in November 2014. During our administrations, we used the financial area that we obtained during the time of the reduction of interest loads for education, health and infrastructure, reducing tax rates, pave the way for private sector investments and employment. During the 1993-2002 period, the real 5 per cent narrowed private sector investments increased by 154 per cent during our last 12 years of financial discipline. We aim to increase the activity in the fight against inflation with the fiscal discipline that we will persevere in the coming period, increase the savings, reduce the current deficit, provide the financial resources for structural reforms. Mr. President, valued lawmakers support financial stability and growth in the middle term, both with the strong capital structure and the quality of assets. Despite rapid credit growth in recent years, capital efficiency has increased by 16.4% as of October, more than twice as much as the legal limit. During the time of our governments, we have implemented extensive macrohythm measures to strengthen financial markets. Stress tests, target capital efficiency, high response rates and restrictions on profit distribution have strengthened the banking sector and increased its resistance to shocks. That's why it's not a penny spent on saving banks during the global financial crisis. The GDP is the lowest in the eurozone with 22 per cent in the GDP. In addition, the measures we've taken since 2009 have reduced the risk of courting your household. The real sector's external debt is at a reasonable level of domestic revenue at 15.3 per cent. Mr. President, we need to reduce inflation and the current deficit for sustainable high growth and increased employment of the working-age population. As a result of the fight against inflation, our governments have reduced inflation to one household during the long years of double digits. Inflation has recently grown to high single digits due to some negative shocks. The high price of food, the loss of value in Turkish lira due to drought, has been effective in this rise in geopolitical tensions and inflation prospects. However, the macrohythetic measures, the strict monetary policy that we apply, are the main trend of the basic inflation indicators, as these temporary shocks have lost the price effect. In this framework, our Central Bank estimates inflation will drop to 8.9 per cent by the end of the year and 6.1 per cent in 2015. Furthermore, the decline in commodity prices, particularly oil, will speed up inflation in 2015. We estimate 101.9 dollars in the Midterm Program, so the default price of oil is around $65, so inflation alone will bring down 1.4 points. We're also lowering the current deficit to maintain macrofinancial stability and high sustainable growth. In 2013, the current account, which was $65 billion, was reduced to $46.7 billion on a 12-month basis as of September 2014. Except for gold and energy, the balance of $4.1 billion has gone from deficit to $7 billion. In 2014, despite the economic recession and geopolitical problems in our trade partners, our market and product diversification policies and exports have shown a positive performance as a result of competitive courtship. The slowdown in domestic demand also slowed the import growth significantly. We estimate that the current account deficit, which was 7.9 per cent in 2013, will be reduced to 5.7 per cent this year and 5.4 per cent this year, but we estimate that the current current current account deficit could be reduced to less than 4% if the lower oil prices continue its current course. Strong employment growth is one of the most important factors to promote economic development. Thus, as EC PARTY governments, we have implemented policies supporting employment and have succeeded in increasing employment. Since 2007, when the global crisis began, many countries have been unable to compensate for jobs losses, Turkey has provided jobs for 5.6 million people. According to IMF data, we are the world's second place after Singapore with 3.6 per cent of average employment growth in the post-spherical crisis period. Despite the slowdown in domestic demand, we've provided about 1.3 million additional jobs over the last year. Despite a strong increase in employment, unemployment has been relatively elevated due to a recent increase in employment and has increased slightly over 10 per cent. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, during our governments, we have implemented many reforms to ensure macrofinancial stability. Thanks to these policies, we quickly expanded our economy, provided high-level employment. Despite the largest global financial crisis of the last 60 years, our biggest trade partner in the eurozone debt crisis and political turmoil in the Middle East, Turkey has grown by 4.9 per cent in 2003-2013. This is slightly above average 4.5 per cent growth during 1923-2002. During the AK PARTY administrations, we reduced the difference between developed countries and increased the level of prosperity. For example, in the early 2000s, Turkey is now over 55 per cent of the European Union, with the power to buy national income per capita. Similarly, when America was less than one fifth of the population, it rose to a level of one third today. At the same time, we cured income distribution and reduced absolute poverty. We've made Turkey's economy resistant to shocks. Our budget deficit is less than a quarter of the OECD average, and our debt load is less than a third. The risk rates of our banking sector and our household balance sheet are very low. We've made significant improvements in the current open, shown as the soft belly of the economy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our governments have ruled out significant macroeconomic problems as a source of concern. We've left behind chronic and high inflation, high budget deficits and unsustainable debt burdens, weak and wavy growth. Now it's time to reform the second generation. We're implementing an important package of reforms to increase efficiency, improve our country's competitiveness and go up the global chain of added value. To that end, we are rapidly implementing the 25 priority transformation programmes set in the Tenth Development Plan. We've completed our work on the reform package covering more than 1,200 micromeasures over the next four years. One by one, we've determined when each measure will be implemented by which institution, and the financial burden required by these reforms. In November, Mr. Prime Minister shared with the public the action plans for the nine transforming programmes regarding the Real sector. We'll be announcing the other programs soon, along with all the details, under the leadership of our Prime Minister. Now, I'd like to mention some of these reform areas: it's possible to achieve our goal of sustainable growth in the middle and long term, only by increasing domestic savings. The low savings of private sectors are due to a process of structural change that gained momentum in the 2000s. In the last decade, the need for urbanisation has reduced private sector savings, with access to financing increased, interest rates dropped, political stability improved, and the need for urbanization. Public savings have been significantly increased by the financial discipline we've provided over the past 12 years. In 2002, the GDP of public savings was negative 4.8 per cent, while our governments increased by 8 points to 3.2 per cent. In the middle and long term, we implemented structural reforms to increase total savings. One of our main priorities in the 2014-2016 Central Future Program was to increase savings rates and reduce current deficits. In line with these goals, the savings rate increased by 1.5 points compared to the previous year in 2014, and the current deficit's GDP was reduced by 2.2 points. In the Tenth Development Plan, we have determined the programme for increasing domestic savings and preventing waste by extensive actions. In the long run, we aim to increase our savings rates by 20 per cent, thanks to reforms and increased employment that will bring our country above the chain of value. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, compared to countries around us, our underground wealth, such as oil and natural gas, is very limited. And so, as the AK PARTY governments, we've made the biggest investment in education, our human capital, and we're still doing it. In this way, in the eleven-year period, we raised the schooling rates that we had quadrupled before school to about 100 percent in the first, middle and higher education. With schooling rates, we also increased the equality of opportunities in education. As of 2013-2014, the rate increased to 102.3 percent, while 91 of our girls were studying in elementary school for 100 boys in 2002. We've come a long way in access to education, but despite the increase in education quality, we're not at the point we're aiming at yet, where we want to be. According to PISA results, Turkey is below the OECD average, but thanks to the steps we took to improve quality, in 2006-2012, we became one of the fastest countries to improve quality in education. During the time of our governments, we opened 234,000 classrooms, appointed 458,000 staff teachers, leaving no province without a university. When the total number of universities was 76 in 2002, we raised the number to 176, including the foundation universities. We facilitated access to the university by removing tuition from public universities. According to the world Economic Forum's higher education rankings, Turkey ranked 72 (72) in 144 countries in 2008, while in 2014 it was ranked 50 (50), according to the World Economic Forum's higher education rankings. Our goal is to become one of the best in OECD countries. Mr. President, valued lawmakers support economic growth and provide new employment opportunities with the competitive advantage of infrastructure investments. Scientific studies show that a 1.5% increase in the road network contributes 0.5 percent to efficiency. That's why we took great interest in the development of the transportation infrastructure, which is the lifeblood of our economy. Over the last 12 years, we've increased our multi-banded land routes to 23.561 kilometers by raising our network threefold. With our investments, we're also revitalizing railroad transport. Turkey is now between eight countries in the world and six in Europe, running high-speed railways. The Marmaray Project and I connected the historic Silk Road to Europe. In the time of our governments, the airway became the way of the people. In 2003, we increased the total number of passengers with 34.4 million to 150 million. We've raised the number of active airports from 26 to 53. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers have been highly employed in the time of our governments. Despite our success, the unemployment rate continues to be horizontal because of the increase in the working-age population and the level of participation in the labour force. We will carry out structural reforms to provide adequate employment for the additional labour force and lower unemployment rates. In this regard, we continue to work on the four policy axes set by the National Employment Strategy. We've identified these axes as strengthening education and employment, flexibleing the labour market, increasing employment for women, young people and disadvantaged groups, strengthening the employment-social protection relationship. We remove obstacles to the labor force and employment participation of women, young people and disadvantaged groups. In 2005, women's participation in the labour force increased to 30.9 per cent in August 2014. In the long run, with the help of education, child care and flexible working models, we aim to increase women's participation in the labour force to 41 percent. Mr. President, the deepening of financial markets supports sustainable high growth using investments and savings more effectively. Therefore, during the time of our governments, we implemented important reforms in order to deepen financial markets. As a result of our efforts, Istanbul was ranked 72nd among 75 countries in 2009 according to the Global Financial Centres Index, while in 2014 it ranked 42nd among 83 countries. Our goal is to take part in the first 25 in the year 2018. Mr. President, the fact that our country is dependent on external resources in energy affects our competitiveness and raises the current deficit. Energy imports took place at 56.2 billion dollars in 12 months as of September 2014. This number has been over $10 billion in total current deficits. So we're focusing our investments on domestic and renewable energy sources. We've come a long way on this one, too. As of September 2014, 40.4 per cent of our total power-building power is renewable, but the rate will reach 50 per cent if the construction of the plants comes online. Energy efficiency is the fastest possible outcome in reducing external dependency in energy. As we reduce the primary energy density in this scope, we promote energy efficiency, especially in public buildings and facilities. One of our primary transformation programmes is the construction of heat insulation of millions of dwellings. With our incentives to increase financial and human resources for RD activities, we continue by increasing our support in this area. In 2002-2013, we increased the GDP rate from 0.53 per cent to 0.95 per cent. We expect to increase this rate to 1.8 per cent in 2018 and 3 per cent in 2023. Thanks to our work in the field of R&D and technology, Turkey ranked 67 (67) out of 132 countries in 2009 in the Global Innovation Index, ranked 54 (54) among 143 countries today. In our country, low-tech production and exports have decreased, while medium technology has increased intensive production and exports. In the next decade, we aim to increase the export of high-tech products from 3.5 per cent to 15 per cent. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we've taken significant steps to combat the informal economy in order to prevent unfair competition, ensure efficiency in resource distribution, boost competitiveness in the economy and public revenues. As a result of these efforts, in the past 12 years, the informal economy's GDP has declined by 6 points to 26.5%. In August 2014, we reduced the total share of unregistered employment by 15.7 points to 36.4 per cent. In the coming period, we will continue to fight off the off-book economy with determination to reduce the mid-term, long-term non-region rate to the level of developed countries. Mr. President, we have strengthened Turkey's institutional capacity by reforming our governments. Turkey is significantly closer to EU standards in terms of compliance and strengthening administrative capacity. The progress report published in October stressed that Turkey's level of compliance with the EU acquish in 26 chapters is good. Although we have officially opened 14 chapters and closed 1 chapter in the negotiation process, if you look at the progress report, 27-28 points out that 13-14 chapters can be opened and closed. The progress report also states that Turkey has made progress at different levels of 33 chapters. All of this shows that in Turkey, institutional infrastructure and legislation are approaching EU standards, closing the gap. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, through the reforms in the field of employment, education and health and social support programs created during our governments, absolute and relative poverty has been reduced, the standards of our citizens' lives have improved. The revenue distribution indicators have improved significantly over the past 12 years. In 2002, the average income of the richest 10 percent was 18.3 times the income of the poorest 10 percent. This rate was reduced to 11.9 times in 2013. We also made significant improvements in absolute poverty indicators. Starting in 2006, there were no populations left with less than $1 per day income. The population, which was living under two dollars and 15 cents a day, was reset by 3 per cent in 2002, as of 2013. Under $4.3 per day, the population has declined by 28 points in 11 years to 2.1 per cent. As a matter of fact, Turkey was ranked number 80 in the Human Development Index in 2000, and was ranked ranked 69 in 2013. Turkey was one of the three countries that showed the highest rapid development in the group of higher human development. In an effort to reduce the differences in development between the regions, we transferred 93.2 billion dollars to the 35 counties covered by GAP, DAP, KOP and DOCAP, at the cost of 2014 in 2002-2014. We've started to get the results of our policies. Our poorest region, the Southeast Anatolian region, has been the region that quickly closes with Istanbul, our richest region, compared to our other regions. The average income of the Southeast Anatolian Region was 30.7 per cent of Istanbul's average income in 2006, while it rose to 37.9% in 2013. In the coming period, we will continue our work that prioritizes social justice in regional development, strengthening balanced development and competitiveness. Mr. President, after my assessment of the economic and reform agenda, I'd like to brief you on the final bill and the Court reports. The basic sizes of the 2013 Final Accounts Bill are: budget costs are 408.2; budget revenues are 389.7; budget deficits are 18.5; non-interest deficits are 31.4 billion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to now inform you about the work we've been doing on the matters of the Court's reports. In last year's reports, general budgetary administrations were critically unable to produce some financial tables. We have formed a joint working group to find a permanent solution to the problem stemming from different interpretation of the legislation between the Court and our Ministry. Under the proposals of the joint working group, the regulation for the solution of the problem was drafted, and the Court's positive opinion was sent to be published to the Prime Minister. With the changes in effect, public administrations under the general budget will be able to present all the basic financial tables envisioned in the legislation to the Court, as they were in private budgetary administrations, starting on 1 January 2015. Another issue covered in the 2013 report was the criticism that the definition of international statistics was not defined, that the basics for the preparation and publication of these statistics were not defined. In this area, we have studied the documents that are considered references and the implementations of international standards. Based on the international standards we're already implementing, we've drawn up a draft of regulations, which are defined by the concept of financial statistics, defined by basic principles, defined by the principles of preparation and publication; and we've taken the positive view of the Court and brought this draft to the stage of publication. We prepare and publish general financial management statistics annually according to international standards. By preparing the work within three months of this coverage, we will make our fiscal performance more often comparable to other countries. One of the critiques in last year's reports was the failure to complete the evaluation of the public administration's assets and not be reflected in the accounting records. On this review, we made changes to secondary legislation in 2014, allowing the movers to be monitored in accounting records. As of November, we have completed inventory of 2.9 million of the 3 million assets that should be transferred to the accounting system. We'll have completed the record of the remaining assets by the end of the year. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to inform you that the 2014 Central Management Budget will be held at the end of the year. At the end of 2014, we predict budget costs will be 448.4 billion and budget revenues will be 424 billion. According to this, we expect the start estimate of the budget deficit at $24.4 billion to be under $8.8 billion, while the non-interest surplus at $25.8 billion will be over $7.1 billion. In 2014, the GDP of the budget deficit will be less than 0.5 points below the target by 1.4 per cent. Similarly, the target will be above 0.4 points, with an extra 1.5 percent of the interest. We estimate that the overall budget deficit will be 0.8 percent less than the target. At this rate, Turkey has a better performance than 25 of the 28 European Union members in the general state deficit. Despite the weaknesses of the global economy, financial fluctuations, geopolitical tensions, and thus slowing down in domestic and external demand, the budget performance on the target is irrefutable success. Turkey achieved this success in the budget in one year, when two key elections took place, including the local and presidential presidency. Our governments have made it clear once again that they have not compromised fiscal discipline in any way and have not implemented the electoral economy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to inform you now about the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. First of all, I'd like to point out that in 2015, when the general elections take place, we will continue fiscal discipline with determination. As with the AK PARTY governments' other budgets, we also created the 2015 budget based on our country's medium-long-term goals. Our main goal is to support the fight against inflation, reduce the deficit of current transactions and increase the potential for sustainable growth. In this framework, the 2015 budget has been prepared as a strong social budget that supports growth, employment, investments, monitors macrofinancial stability, prioritizes education, health and infrastructure investments, aims to boost the well-being of our citizens. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we estimate that in the 2015 budget budget budget revenues will increase by 6.6 per cent by the end of 2014, reaching 452 billion dollars. The modest growth of revenues stems from the base effect of high tax-free incomes in 2014. Because we predict tax revenues will increase by 10.8 per cent to 389.5 billion in parallel with an informal domestic growth. We aim to limit budget costs to $472.9 billion by increasing them by 5.5 per cent with strict finance policy. We estimate interest costs at $418.9 billion. In this framework, we target the budget deficit in 2015 as $21.0 billion, extra interest, $33.0 billion. According to this, we aim to reduce the GDP in 2014 to 1.1 per cent in 2015 and raise the non-interest surplus from 1.7% to 1.7% in 2015. We aim to reduce the GDP rate to 0.5 per cent in 2015, to 0.3 per cent in the previous year, and to 0.1 per cent in 2017, to 0.1 per cent in general state surplus. At the end of the programme, we predict reducing the GDP to 28.5 per cent by 4.6 points compared to 2014. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you now about the services and priorities that we're going to offer to our citizens in the 2015 budget. We're reassigning the highest share of the 2015 budget to education. We raise the total education grants to $87.5 billion, which we have increased by 11.5 per cent according to the 2014 budget. This represents an increase of about seven stories according to 2002. Thus, we have divided 18.5 per cent of the budget and 22.3 per cent of the tax revenues into education. In 2015, the Ministry of National Education was earmarked for $62 billion, and the universities were earmarked for $18.5 billion, while YURTKUR. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have made a revolution in health during the time of our governments. In 2015, we also saved our citizens the resources needed for the maintenance of better health care, the second-highest resource, from the budget to health care. In 2015, a total of 80.9 billion dollars was earmarked for public health expenditures, including expenses from the Social Security Agency. So we're raising medical expenses to six times more than in 2002. We have become one of the countries in which health and health indicators are modeled. In 2002, the average life expectancy in childbirth, which was seventy-two years, increased in 2013 to seventy-seven years. The infant mortality rate dropped from 31.5 per thousand in 2002 to 7.8 per thousand in 2013, while the mother mortality rate dropped from 6.4 per 10,000 to 1.6 per 10,000 in 2013. Thus, Turkey has achieved what OECD countries have achieved in thirty years in the last ten or twelve years. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we will continue to use public investments as an effective tool to boost our country's competitiveness, support growth and employment, reduce intergalactic development differences. In this case, in 2015, we increase investment funds by 9.3 per cent to 48.4 billion dollars compared to the initial grant of the previous year. So in 2015, we increase investment funds to six times more than 2002, and we increase investment spending to 10.2% in the budget. In 2002, it was 6.6%. In 2015, we raise total public fixed capital investments to 88.5 billion dollars. Mr. President, in our time of power, we've looked after our public employees and pensioners, raised their income on a real basis. From the end of 2002 to December 2014, inflation increased by 182.4%. The lowest salary of civil servants, including family allowance, increased by 416.8 per cent to 2,095, and increased by 82.7 per cent in real estate. The average officer's salary, including a family allowance, increased by 309.7 per cent to $2.368 and increased by 44.9 per cent in real estate. The net minimum wage has increased to 383.6 per cent nominally to 891 liras, and the real increase has been 71 per cent. The lowest SEC pension has increased by 307.4 per cent to $1,047 and has increased by 44 per cent in reality. The revenues of public employees in our time of power have increased considerably over inflation, as well as parallel titles to these indicators. In parallel with the increase in the expendable income of our retired and small-income citizens, the amount of basic products available during this period has also increased significantly. The table in the brochure that I distribute will also be seen by the 3 and 4 chapters. In 2014, the financial and social rights of public officials include 2014-2015. The period is determined by the collective agreement. In addition to 75 euro compensation hikes in January and 75 in July to teachers who make up nearly one-third of the workers under central administration -- all public officials' salaries, which are valid at the beginning of the year -- have increased grossly 350 lira in wages, and the temporary staff has also been granted benefits of family allowance, as well as grossly as 75 in July. Thus, the salary of a new teacher in 2014 increased by 14.4 per cent; the lowest employee pension was 12.8 per cent; the average officer's salary increased 8.5 per cent; the lowest civil servant's salary increased 8.3%. Under this contract, our employees' salaries and salaries will be increased by 6.1 per cent on cumulative basis in January and July 2015, with 3 per cent per cent per cent per cent per cent. In addition, the difference in the first half of 2015, if it exceeds 3% of the TÜFE rate, will be reflected in salaries, which are valid from July 2015. Mr. President, from the moment we came to power, we have looked after those in need of social assistance and protection. We purposed that our orphaned children be brought to protective, educational services and environments that would make them feel the family's warmth, that our disabled citizens may benefit from all the services offered to the community. We've diversified welfare programs, increased the source of social spending in a fast way year after year. At $32.9 billion, we spend 7% of the 2015 budget on social spending. Similarly, in our 2015 budget, we estimate transfers to social security institutions as $80.6 billion. Mr. President, it's very important to increase the domestic savings rate for sustainable high growth. I've highlighted this subject before. To that end, we changed the incentive system for individual retirement and switched directly to the state-owned contribution system. The new system number of participants reached about 5 million people as of December 2014, while the funding size reached $36.8 billion. As of late November 2014, we paid $2.9 billion in individual pension state contributions. In the 2015 budget, we saved $2.4 billion for this system. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been one of the primary goals of our governments to improve the efficiency of agriculture and the living standards of our farmers. By 2015, we'll be able to increase the agricultural support budget to five times more than in 2002. In our 2015 budget, we allocate a total of $10 billion for agricultural support. Meanwhile, we have earmarked a total of $13.1 billion for agriculture in 2015, including agricultural loan subsidies, intervention buys and financing for the OSCE. Its GDP rate is 0.68 per cent. However, if you take into account tax incentives, agricultural services, and consumers' support, the rate is up to 2 per cent. Thus, Turkey is the second most supportive OECD country in 2013. Thanks to our support for agriculture and reforms in the period of EC PARTY governments, in 2002 the agricultural non-native product, which was $26.7 billion, amounted to about three times that in 2013, reached $60.7 billion. Thus, Turkey became the largest country in Europe in the agricultural illegal domestic product. Mr. President, from the moment we arrived in office, we have supported science and research, knowing that strong Turkey will rise on the basis of knowledge and science. In 2015, we increase TÜBITAK (TBITAK)'s spending capacity to $3.2 billion. Again, during the time of our governments, we gave the local authorities more tasks and responsibilities and increased funding. In the 2015 budget, we increase the income share of local governments by 15 per cent from the previous year to $44.7 billion. On the other hand, we have envisioned an additional $3.5 billion in street lighting, village services personnel' salary and other payments, KCYDES, SDUAP, equalisation given to municipalities and municipal floor waste and waste water treatment support. So we're subtracting the total resources from the central management budget to local governments to $48.2 billion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make a brief mention of the programme budgets conducted by our Ministry in this department. We aim to make our budget more transparent with the program budget and a better understanding of our people. With the new budget structure, we aim to redesign our budget to show public programs, and our government's priorities and the resources set before these priorities will be better monitored by our people. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to inform you about our policy and practices. We conduct our income policies in line with social goals as part of their aims to support sustainable growth and employment increases, maintain financial gains, increase domestic savings rates and reduce the current deficit. In this framework, our efforts to restore tax legislation to a modern and fair structure will continue. Talks on the IRS bill we referred to parliament last year continue on the subcommittee created by the Plan and Budget Commission. Again, we review the Tax Usul Law, which took effect in 1961, with an understanding based on international standards and modern tax principles. Hopefully in the first quarter of next year or the first half of the year, we'll be presenting this bill to our great Parliament. Similarly, we are reviewing the Mark Tax Law and the Law on Wraths. Again, in order to simplify our tax legislation and increase the number of VAT notifications that have reached 123, we have published the VAT General Application Report. So we've covered the mess in the legislation, and we've accelerated the VAT returns. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been transferred to our country as of December 1, 2014, as of the G-20 term presidency. Our Finance Ministry will also conduct his work on international tax issues. As part of our G-20 and OECD membership, we are closely monitoring the study of tax transparency and information exchanges and matherah corrosion and profit transfer. We will contribute to making global adjustments in these areas. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, during our governments, we dropped the tax burden on employment. We've reduced the tax burden on employees with discounts on income tax tariffs. We have reduced the number of slices in the income tax rate from six to four, and the highest tax rate from 49.5 per cent to 35 per cent. Similarly, we reduced the income tax rate in the lower portion from 22 percent to 15 percent. With a minimum income discount, we've reduced the income tax to zero, 12.8% of a minimum wage with four children. In the Bill of the Taxes Act, we have envisioned reducing the income tax burden of the minimum salary of three children to zero. Similarly, when we came to power in 2002, we reduced the tax burden to 34 per cent, which was 65 per cent of the institution's earnings. So we increased the international competitiveness of our country, and in terms of the tax burden, we became the 7th country among the OECD countries with the lowest tax burden on institutional earnings. Mr. President, we've also reduced the VAT rates on services with basic requirements during the time of our governments. In this regard, we reduced the VAT rate to 18 per cent in education, tourism, health care, clothing, and a 1% in many foods. As of 2014, the average standard VAT rate in European Union countries was 21.5 per cent; in OECD countries 19.1 per cent; in 21 countries, both OECD and EU members, 21.7%. As a result of VAT discounts, the effective VAT rate in our country has dropped to 14.4 per cent. In terms of general VAT, our country is ranked sixth in the lowest ranking of OECD countries. Compared to the European Union countries, we are the lowest of the two. Mr. President, we've imposed a discounted institutional tax as part of the incentive system, a 6.4 billion-dollar memraha, which was declared by more than 1,300 put together by the taxpayers in 2014. Again, we support the sale of precious stone imports through the stock market. We also removed the exception of VAT in the delivery of gemstones and jewelry containing them to consumers. Thus, by providing 18% of these luxury consumption products with VAT, we have improved some of the tax justice. Mr. President, in the time of our governments, Turkey has become one of the most taxally competitive countries in the world. I'm not saying that. According to the International Tax Competition Index, which measures tax competition and neutrality of countries, Turkey was the 9th most competitive country of 34 countries in 2014. Many developed countries are far behind us in the index. His perception of high tax burdens does not reflect the truth. The main problem in our country is not the height of the indirect tax burden, but the lack of direct tax revenues. Our country's tax revenues, including local administrations and social security premiums, are 15.2 per cent of the GDP. In OECD, the average ratio is 23.4 percent, so Turkey is 8.2 points lower. On the other hand, when we look at the indirect tax involuntary share of domestic revenues, 12.5% in Turkey is 1.4 per cent above the OECD average, but 0.8 per cent below the European Union average. Mr. President, I'm running a little low on time, so I'm going to skip part of it, but I've already distributed it in text, so it can be traced from there. Finally, we provide a lot of support to improve the living standards of our citizens within social policy and financial means. In this context, we encourage protected businesses to improve the employment and physical conditions of our disabled citizens. Again, our work continues as part of reducing environmental pollution and maintaining energy efficiency. In this context, we predict three important regulations in 2015: the incentive for heat insulation in buildings, the publication of cheap white objects in electricity consumption, and the incentive for low-carbon dioxide emissions. Mr. President, the budget for 2015 is a budget to continue the new Turkey's holy march. This budget, as in our previous budgets, is a budget far beyond daily political concerns, which is designed for the long-term future of our country. This budget is a budget that will mark the 21st century, which will fund the human capital, infrastructure, and all parts of society -- in short -- to its future. This budget is a budget that will serve 77 million of our people and strengthen our brotherhood. This budget is also a budget that protects our guests, the refugees, and the oppressed. Those who can't learn from the past and learn from the past can't build the future and neglect it. Turkey is a horse whose roots are in the past, as John Kemal said. This budget is a policy document designed with this understanding that will serve as a bridge between the past and the future. The AK PARTY has been the most prominent service of governments and our power. This budget is another service budget. The 2015 budget is a budget for this country, for the beautiful people of this beautiful country, for tomorrow, for our children, whom we have borrowed the world from, to raise our standard of life, to build our brotherhood further, to grow in stability and security, and to grow up, not to be wasteful, but to be productive, to close things with developed countries even faster. As Mehmet Akif Ersoy wrote in his lines: If you want to get there, Sadi says that if you want to, Though your paths seem never to end, Keep going, don't stop, don't stay on the road! So what is the distance for the steadfast, and what is the near? What is the matter with this effort that it should not be eased? What terrible thing is there that does not fear man? With these feelings and thoughts, we will continue to move forward with determination, patience, and perseverance, in 2023 and later goals, inspired by our history. Mr. President, I'd like to thank our esteemed lawmakers, our Prime Minister and everyone who's worked so hard to support the budget's preparation. On this occasion, I would like to express our gratitude to Mr. President, the architect of our previous 12 budgets, for his valuable services and works that have led to the radicalisation of fiscal discipline and economic stability in Turkey. On behalf of my government and personally, I'd like to thank you for your hard work at the General Assembly. I wish our 2015 budget was a blessing, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0003par0121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, the budget talks will be held according to the programme in accordance with the decision made in the 22nd Union, dated 3/12/2014. Initially, the time can be used by one hour -- more than one speaker -- during talks on the entire budget, during talks on political party groups and on behalf of the government -- ten minutes in personal talks. Personal talks will be promised to two MPs on behalf of the entire budget. I'm now reading the names of the members of the entire budget in order to speak for their groups and individuals: On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, President and İstanbul MP Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu; on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Justice MP Mr. Adil Zozani and Şırnak MP Mr. Hasip Kaplan; on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group İstanbul MP Mehmet Muş and Isparta MP Mr. Surayya Sadi Bilgic; On behalf of the People's Party Group, President-General and Osmaniye MP Mr. Güllı; on behalf of the government, Prime Minister Mr. Ahmet Davogoğlu; on behalf of the People's Party MP Mr. Cahit Bağcı; on behalf of İstanbul MP Atila Kaya. Now, the first word on behalf of the group belongs to the Republican People's Party Group, the President and İstanbul MP Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu. Here you are, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0004par0129	Mr. President, we're discussing a budget, a new budget. Mr. Finance Minister just made a presentation. When you look at it, there's no excitement in the budget, there's no horizon, there's no purpose, there's no vision, there's a budget presentation in a defence instinct. My dear friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0005par0131	Now you're being insulting.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0006par0132	Where's the insult?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0007par0133	Mr. Ahmet New, your last name is New, but you're old. You know what it's like to throw words out there. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0134	Since he's old, Mr. President, we're not considering it. He can talk all he wants, we don't have any problems.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0007par0136	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I'd like to make a reminder for everyone. I'll add my time, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0138	Look, my dear friends, let me tell you why I started out like this. There is a concept called budget rights. So the tax that 77 million citizens pay needs to be accounted for, and the political government needs to give it to them. There are three fundamentals to budget rights, dear friends, three basics: one, do we abide by the law in drafting the budget? Two, are we in accordance with the law on the use of the budget? Three, are we making a healthy assessment of how the budget is prepared, how the expenditures are made? One, are we in accordance with the law in drafting the budget? Dear friends, since 2006, has the Central Future Plan been announced during the Midterm Financial Program? It wasn't. Has it been announced in time? It wasn't announced. Well, dear friends, didn't you make that law? You guys did. Is it necessary for a citizen to abide by the laws you have passed? It has to fit. Does the government have any privileges? No, there's no privilege. The medium-term program is published in the first week of September. It says, "It's that simple." Did they publish it? They didn't publish it. Central Term Mali Plan will have to be published in September 15th. Is it published? It's not published. Now I ask the government, for what reason did you not publish these plans, these programs in your time, for what reason? Tell them to go out and get me a reasonable explanation. If they don't, they're playing by Parliament. Make an offer of law, especially from an old friend of mine who speaks: The government publishes the medium-term financial plan when it desires the program. At least we do not have those criticisms. We've told them over and over since 2006, and they still don't fit. The second issue is the use of the budget. My dear friends, we're putting 2% in the budget for the Finance Ministry. Why are we putting it in? If there's an earthquake, there's a flood, there's a disaster, so the Treasury can intervene quickly. Is that correct? The application is correct. Is it supposed to be? It has to be. So, how much was the grant, guys? It was 949 million liras, 949 million liras. Do you know how much they used? Thirty-six billion liras. 949 million liras pass through Parliament, using $36 billion, 36 quadrillion in old money. Now, my dear friends, do you have any reputation? Wouldn't Parliament's reputation be a question of debate? I'm going to save 900 million, he's going to spend $36 billion, and he's not going to pay for the future. Is there a request for additional funding, folks? You bring in a new budget, you inform Parliament. You will speak of the subject's rights, and you will not answer for the money spent. No, no, no. We will not criticize, but who will criticize, and we will not tell the truth, and who will tell the truth? My dear friends, let's just leave it at that again. There's an off-the-book budget. This 36 billion is one of them. Spinning capitals. Does he pay for return capital, citizen? It does. Is it being spent? It's wasted. Do you know how much it costs? 35 billion liras. Is that in the budget? No, it's not in the budget. Why not, for what reason, why not? Aren't you going to pay the people when it's your turn? You have to give it to me. You're authorized to use the budget. You can't use the budget like your father's farm. Parliament has regulations, laws, rules, chapters, departments, ministries. I can use it any way I want, I can come and pay any account I want, I can't give any account I want. That's not true, my friends. Thirty-five billion liras, 35 quadrillion liras with old money, are out of the budget again, my dear friends. That's it? No. There's an association, there's a foundation, there's institutions, there's organizations, there's help. Do you know how much help you've been given? You don't know. Why don't you know? On what grounds do you not know? Aren't we legislatures? Shouldn't we be accountable? There's no account. Then we'll take the budget here. Especially the TOKI, does anyone know the account? Why doesn't he come here? Why did they take it out of the budget? We all have to ask, my dear friends. A third leg of budget rights: we need to know how the money is spent. Is money being spent by law or not? Who's gonna supervise it? Turkey will supervise the Court on behalf of the Grand National Assembly. We finally got 157 reports this year, so we ran out of hair, so we got 157 reports. My dear friends, there's more than one problem with these reports. First of all, these reports are being turned into birds by the Court. I address Mr. Cemil Cicek: Mr. President, the institution that oversees public spending on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is turning the auditors' reports into birds with a special study, prevent it, prevent it. The MPs have the right to see the audit staff's reports. If it's being cut, if it's being fixed, we need to know for what reason. I need to know for what reason it's being corrected, for which reason certain chapters are being removed. If there's a custody over the Court, if there's political pressure, that institution can't make a healthy audit on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and you're in charge of it, Mr. President. (HPP applause) I'm Mr. Jamil Çiçek. I'm saying it loud and clear. And, for example, the budget of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Budgets are being audited. There's been a major incident with the rental of national parks. The audit report is coming in, it's going through the audit board -- there's an institution that controls the reports, and it's going through -- it's going to come to Parliament, but a dark hand is coming back online. The same board re-examines the report, the report is literally turned into a bird, and it's coming right at us. It's not the government's fault, I'll tell you that. The government has nothing to do with it. Parliament, which does not hold the court, is the real problem. Now, I ask Mr. Cemil Cicek, for what reason does the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs report on national parks come to the Commission for the second time and get cut? We want that information, that information should come. That's it? No. Reports came in. I'm reading the statement in part of the reports exactly as the valued lawmakers said: "There was no inspection because the necessary financial paintings could not be taken. " Mr. Prime Minister is probably hearing it, too, isn't he? The Court says we can't check because we can't get the necessary financial tables. I'd like to ask: for what reason do these financial paintings not be given to the supervisor, and why should they be hesitated? On what grounds didn't the institutions provide what paintings? Do you know? You don't know. I don't know either. Mr. Flower doesn't know either. Neither do the groups. The government knows. The government is in charge here. My first question to Mr. Davutoglu is, which departments' financial tables were not submitted to their supervisors, and on what grounds were they not given notice? I'm waiting for your answer. I'm curious, and my group is curious, and I'm sure Parliament and the Justice and Development Party are also curious. They're gonna vote for you, they're gonna vote for you, they're gonna vote for you, they're gonna at least wait for your answer to make their conscience clear when they vote. My dear friends, does the government have a budget policy? Is there an economic policy? What's he aiming for? What's he aiming for? I'm going to show you the targets one by one: Now, look, they're talking about structural reforms 12 years ago. Give me a break! There's been another Council of Ministers for 12 years, there's been another political power, they haven't run it in 12 years, now they're talking about structural reforms. What else? Sir, they're talking about producing high-end product. Who's been running this country for 12 years? What policy did you run? Look, dear friends, the main goal of economic policy is to bring prosperity to the country. Let the citizen live in prosperity, let him live in peace, let him capture modern civilization, let him be a part of civilized society, let him have a higher income per person; this is the common goal in all the world we know. Now, look, dear friends, they put this nation to sleep for 12 years with a story of growth, 12 years. I'll give you the numbers now. If the numbers are wrong, let Mr. Prime Minister come and say, "O Kılıçdaroglu, your numbers are wrong." Then I'll go and ask the public agency why you published them. 1946-2002, average growth of 5.1 per cent in 43 years. There have been coups, there have been times of need for five cents, there have been economic crises, there have been Cyprus landings, there have been embargoes for Turkey; there have been 5.1 average growth. Well, average growth of 2003-2014 is 4.7 percent. Mr. Prime Minister, I beg you, if these numbers are wrong, come here and tell me if it's true, then don't cheat on this nation with this story of growth anymore. Look, dear friends, I'm giving you 2008: $10,444 per million per person. I'll give you 2014: $10,537. Do you know how much is up in four or five years? $93. What economic policy are they talking to me about? How and how do they come to Parliament to bring us this budget, and vote for us? They spent over a trillion dollars more than all the republic's governments spent. Point is, they spent over $1 trillion more money than all the republican governments spent. Average growth is 4.7 percent. The latest figures have been released, it's much worse there. He's not included in that number, so maybe if we put it as a ratio, it'll go down a little bit. So, is the citizen prospering? Dear friends, let me tell you about the credit card debts. If it's wrong, Mr. Prime Minister will come in and fix it, and we'll be glad to. 2002, when this cash register was dumped, at 1,500 per cent of the overnight interest, the credit card debt was $4.3 billion, which is $4 quadrillion with the old money. Do you know how much 4 billion went up in October 2014? Up to 73.9 billion dollars, $4 billion 73 billion. Do you know how much the increase is? 1.604 percent. What prosperity are we talking about? So, let's look at banks, what's consumer debt in banks, citizen? $2.3 billion in 2002, consumer debt 2.3 billion. Do you know how much 2 billion went up to October 2014? It's up to 273 billion liras. Two billion, up to 273 billion dollars, a citizen in debt, unable to breathe, unable to monitor progress in the country. How will I get home in the evening? ▪ Will the pot boil in the house? It is the problem of the citizen. If this painting isn't the right painting, if these numbers are wrong, I'm sure I'll come out and apologize. If so, let the government apologize to these people. Do you know what the increase in debt is? 11.954 percent. No government in the history of the Republic has put this community through this. My dear friends, let's look at the revenue distribution. In 2002, the richest 1 percent of the population had 39.4% of the income. In 2014, the rate rose to 54.3 percent. So we have a lot more dollar billionaires than Japan. Someone's turning the corner, someone's getting rich, someone's moving the drugs, we know that, but the citizen's a mess. You ask the Esnafa, you ask the farmer, you ask the people in the palace, they look out the window of the palace, they see a sunny, green, woody area, they think all of Turkey is like that. Not all Turkey is like this, my dear friends. I told you, they spent an extraordinary amount of money. Do you know what a government's target is? A government's goal is to move Turkey to the information society. It's the 21st century. The human brain is now the world's most strategic product. If you move Turkey to the information society, then Turkey will become a respectable state, a country. Look, my dear friends, the key to moving information to society is the education system. I beg all my fellow MPs to look at Norway, look at the education system, look at the last 20 years. How did Norway go back, how did Norway go forward, and what did it do in the education system? Look, my dear friends, we brought in the 4+4+4 system. It wasn't part of the development plan. It wasn't in the government's programme. It wasn't part of the National Ministry of Education's strategic plan. There was no meeting at the Council of Ministers. Five dear friends of yours stood up and offered me a law. None of them were educators. The fight broke out of Parliament. You've forced a 5-year-old to go to school. The mothers didn't want to send you, you said: "Is your child an idiot? Do you want to send him to school?" Some of them were corrected, but no one listened to us. Do you know what the education system is? He was thrown out like a mallet's cotton. 13 times in 11 years has changed education policy, friends, 13 times in 11 years. Tell me, what country is there in the world that makes their own children a test subject? Parents don't know where to send the child to school, they don't know how to send him. It's a shame, isn't it, dear friends of mine, to this country? It's a shame about our children, isn't it? Don't this country have educational institutions? I do. Don't they have trainers? I do. They don't have pedagogs? I do. No scientists? I do. Why don't we sit down and argue like civilized people, form a strategy and then bring it to Parliament? On what grounds are we doing this? There is something called common sense. Did you bring something good, but as the Republican People's Party, did we object?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0009par0156	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0157	What did you bring, and what did we object to, and what did you bring, and what did we object to? (EC PARTY RINGS) Let me be clear, all the laws that came under the European Union's law of harmony came out of this Parliament with a unanimous vote, my dear friends. Do you know what we've come to, my dear friends, has passed us in the Iranian scientific literature? That's a shame enough for the government. It's been in scientific literature. Why are these guys doing this? On what grounds? We produced cars before South Korea. Do we have a car now? South Korea has three brands worldwide. Is it possible that government officials are saying that this South Korea has started its development move with us in the same time, and how did it come to pass us even in the first 20? There's another story: Sir, we're in the first 20. We've already been in the first 20, but we're in the 13th and 14th place of the first 20, now we're in the 17th place. If three more countries attack, we may even be under the first 20. My dear friends, manufacturing industry, the way to produce high-end products is through science, mind, logic, college. If a country's education is broken, you can't produce high-income products there. They're bragging, aren't they? 2002, the proportion of high-tech products in the manufacturing industry is 5.7%. 2013 -- I told you, they spent $1 trillion more -- 3.4 percent friends. The number of high-tech products has dropped in general production. Well, let's look at exports: 2002, 6.2 percent; in exports, the share of high-end products is 6.2%. 2013, three and a half percent friends. It's going down. October 2014, 3.3 percent. That's a shame enough for the government. I thought we had colleges. I thought we were producing information. What happened to us? On what grounds? When it comes to consumption, we run, and when it comes to production, we stop. Look, I'll tell you something else: the number of people working at RD: Ukraine, 1,253 people; South Korea, 5,928 people; Russia, 3,096 people; Norway, 5,588 people; Turkey, 987 people. What are we missing from those countries? We lack politics from those countries, my friends. When you don't dominate morality in politics, when corruption starts, when corruption happens, this picture comes out as a dark picture. [[Applause from CHP rows]] What's science, fellas? It's the richness of the mind. You're dealing with a government that implements a national educational policy that opposes the enrichment of the mind. Unemployment... I'll show you a painting. This mayor is a Mayor of Justice and Development Party. The files in front of you are the files of those who applied for a job. We've brought someone from the ruling wing in particular, and you'd say that if he were from CHP, the People of CHP are always against him. Not me, a mayor from the Justice and Development Party, you see the files because of the applications made to him. You know what the number is, guys? Nine thousand jobs in six months. 9,000 people in six months. Wherever you go, you're handed a paper saying, "Get me a job." Why is unemployment at this point? It's over 10 percent unemployment. Young unemployment is at 20%, university graduates are at 20 to 25 per cent. Why is there unemployment? The gentlemen's children are not unemployed. You see this government wing, none of these children are unemployed. (CHP cheers) They've got one hand in the oil, one hand in the honey. You know what the problem is? The problem is with Master Recep in Ermenek, and Uncle Recep in Recep; the problem with his shoes is with his child. Mr. Mehmet, sitting in coffee, his child is unemployed. Over 330,000 teachers waiting for the appointment, over 330,000. Sixty-five people who graduated from college committed suicide. What are you guys talking about? What is this government talking about? There's unemployment, there's no pot boiling, there's unrest. Would you ask this government or should I ask: Mr. Prime Minister, when you get here, let me ask you a second question: why has bonsai consumption increased so much? Are you encouraging me? Why did it increase? Why did the divorces increase? Why is the family structure so deeply shaken in Turkey? You call yourself a manipulator. Why is the family structure so deeply shaken in Turkey? Why is Turkey being dragged into drug swamps, prostitution? I thought you weren't after money stamps, you were bringing peace to the country. Why is it my dear friends? They don't account for the budget, you use $35 billion out of Parliament, you don't bring it here, and then you get up and say, "Our government is a successful government. No, my friends, your government is not a successful government. Look, Mr. Davutoglu came out and made a statement in TRT, November 19, 2014. I ask that the Justice and Development Party's esteemed deputies and citizens listen to me carefully on this matter. He says, Mr. Prime Minister, that we have a very high European standards of union organization. Something that's not in China. This is why our competitiveness with China is getting weaker. You can be sure that the Prime Minister has nothing to do with the facts of Turkey. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know how many workers are unionized in this country? 4%. The U.S. is 10%, and we have 4%. Do you know how many people work for minimum wage? 4 million 780, 807 workers work for minimum wage. Subcontractor 1, 361,373. What height are you talking about? When you look at your own salary, all workers get paid, so we can't compete. Do you have a rule? (Applause from CHP rows) TÜRK-İS, November 2014, the hunger limit is $1,225, and the poverty limit is $3,990. Do you know how much the minimum wage net costs? 891 lira is below the hunger line, and the Prime Minister goes to the state's TV and says we have high wages. Mercy, mercy, mercy, I can't find a word to say. Please correct those words when you come to this bench, Mr. Prime Minister. We're really unfair to minimum wage. Subcontractor work has exploded in your time. His job is to organize between the boss's two lips, zero; minimum wage, life imprisonment; eight hours, the boss has to work 18 hours, and when he's angry, they just point out the front of the door. What order are we talking about, my dear friends? What order are we talking about? We're not going to talk about it, but who is? My dear friends, we want a first-class democracy in our country. This also means that workers need to be organized, just as all workers, employers are organized, they need to be unionized, but we're against unionism, and we're against unionism, obviously, but we're against organizing workers to seek their rights, we're against unionism. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And do you know what this painting gives birth to, dear friends? There's another painting that this painting has given birth to: the number of citizens in action. 2002, when the economic crisis was at its highest, the number of executive files was 8,613,759. Do you know how much that 8 million went up in 2013? 20 million 194 thousand 933. You know, I just told you, the consumer can't pay the banks at the bottom of the line of credit; he can't pay the minimum wage; he can't pay the credit card; here are their files. Perhaps the government will give the following reason: "However, the citizen is in debt and spending. " He is paying, but he can't pay. The executive files show that very clearly. My dear friends, one of the strangest jobs in the world, the government officials have gone and opened an executive office. Can such a thing happen, such a mind, such logic? You're going to perform the citizen, you're going to open an executive office with a ceremony. (CHP cheers) One's ashamed, I'm ashamed, I can't answer personally. Look, you know what the Department of Development budget says? The production of prisons will be given speed, he says. So, where's he going to go if he's got all these guys working for him? He's going to jail. I'll tell you another truth of Turkey. The number of citizens in prison... in 2002, I'm talking about the years that these overnight interest rates were raised to 1,500 percent and often mentioned here; I'm talking about the years when the cash registers were thrown out and the tradesmen were walking, 59,429; December 1, 2014, the number of citizens in prison increased by 156,707; 3 times. There's no room in prisons, you know? They're taking turns, you know? Do you know that there are 25 or 30 people in the 10-person ward? This is the truth of Turkey. Why are you avoiding this fact in front of everyone? One of them got up and went to Diyarbakır for a while, and said, "I will build you a modern prison, you Diyarbakırs." Now they say, "Don't worry, we're speeding up prison production. " What are these precious friends, not to make fun of the nation? It's a shame, isn't it? This government has done one more thing, the privatisation championship is supposed to be the title, but it's made a state. There's the Council of Foreign Economic Relations, NGOs in the private sector are coming together, setting up DEIC to develop exports with different countries, to improve cooperation. They said, "There's no need to build the ministry, we took the DEİK from you after this, we connected it directly to the Ministry. Why are they connecting it to the Ministry? Who were they? Turkey's Industrialists and Businessmen Association (TUSIAD). What else? Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges. What else? Turkish Exporters' Assembly. What else? The Association of Compulsive Industrialists and Businessmen (MUSIAD). What else? Turkey's Contractors' Association. And they said, "We'll get 1 percent of their income." Mr. Prime Minister, you're an academic, there's a Article 73, the Constitution says: "The tax is imposed by law, it's lifted by law, it can't even be passed by the law in the matter of taxes." You stood up -- one percent -- you didn't even make the law, I took it, you said. On what grounds do you receive 1%, for what reason? On what grounds are you taxing? He did one more thing, my dear friends, this is the government that you see: the pool media is at the top, and there are fellow businessmen. They offer not all kinds of punishment, but all kinds of praise, all kinds of opportunities. They told these companies... that they had issued a decree, Mr. Davutoglu's first decree, that they sat down, that they had issued the first decree from the Council of Ministers. Because these companies can't collect, they say: "Wait a minute, can't you collect?" The path is very simple. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey has been appointed as a collector of subsidiary businessmen. Would a state be the collector of an ally, my friends? How could you do such a thing? This government has no place to live, not even a place to sleep. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You know what? This decree was cancelled, and it was voted off. Now, I'm curious, for what reason did you assign the government to collect the subsidiary companies, on what grounds, and on what basis? Doesn't it bother your conscience to make the entire state of the Republic of Turkey a collector of three or five allies against Parliament's will? Dear friends, there's also been talk of farmers. Two Thracian-sized, two Thracian-sized areas haven't been planted in the last ten years. Question three, Mr. Prime Minister, for what reason is the area the size of Two Thraces not added? Come here and inform the High Council, for what reason is it not planted? If you do, it's gonna hurt. Question four, the Agricultural Law came out, the Agricultural Law. The 21st article says that a farmer is supported by at least 1 percent of the national income. On what grounds do you not give the farmer the incentive he deserves? Parliament has the will, it has the law. You will give 1 percent. It says, "You can give." It says, "You can give." It doesn't say, "You will give." But you don't, and you come here, and you vote for us, and you support our budget. My dear friends, this government has another brand, they imported hay. Did you ever think that the entire Republic of Turkey would import straw? They imported hay. Do you know what a seedless grape is? Last year it was $5 a pound, $2.50 a year. Question 5: Mr. Prime Minister, for what reason have you reduced $5 to $2.5 in an age grape? What's cheap? What did you make cheap? Did the diesel get cheap, the fertilizer got cheap, what got cheap? On what grounds did you download it? Well, there's got to be an explanation. A citrus... go to Fourways. There is a man among you of Adana, and Hatayite; go to Fourways, and ask the maker of the narcissist, and they will find no buyers for 25 cents. What's it gonna be? And how much in the grocery store? 2-2.5 liras. 25 cents on the dollar, 2-2.5 lira at the grocery store. Who's eating the money in between? Who's buying this? I wonder if any of you are the founders of that company. How does it work, how does it work? I have to ask this, my dear friends, I have to defend the manufacturer's rights, that's my duty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We used to be the world's second in mazotta -- in terms of price -- now, the figures of the International Energy Agency came out in October 2014, where we won first place, leaving Norway behind. (Applause) 1 litre of diesel in Norway, $1.70 in Germany, $1.50 in Romania, $1.15 in Romania, 70 cents in America, $2.10 in Turkey. Now I ask the Prime Minister the 6th question: for what reason do you give so much expensive diesel to the farmer? Why don't you go out there and tell me why? If we are rich from Germany, so be it; if we are rich from Norway, so be it. It's a lot of money per person, $30, 35,000, what's the matter, dear? We import it, sir. Do you know what the price of a refinery is, including profit? $1.70, $1.70. How much for the peasant? It's $5.00. You've turned every oil office station, every gas station into a tax office. Mr. Finance Minister shuts down the tax offices, there's already, there's stations, there's oil stations; they're squealing, and they're taking it all up front. Look, my dear friends, do you know why this is happening to us? The country is not ruled by reason, it is not ruled by common mind. I'll give you an example from a country ruled by a common mind, smaller than the Netherlands, smaller than the province, developed democracy, developed human rights, higher income per person. Let me give you the 2013 figures: Do you know how much agricultural and food exports are in the Netherlands? 105 billion dollars. It's smaller than lconium. 105 billion dollars. What about our exports? $17 billion. What are we missing? There's farmers, there's land, there's water, there's fertilizer, there's everything. What's missing? Clean politics. What's missing? When a country is ruled by reason, it develops, with reason; when it is ruled by reason, a country develops. A country develops when its sources account is given to its citizens. Cargill, the beets maker. This government has another report card. This is a sugar-hating government. I'm not going to get the sugar beets out, he says. Why don't you get it planted? Yes, there's a factory, there's a field, there's a farmer; he wants bread, he'll get sugar, no sir, I'll sell it all. For whom? I'll do it for Cargill. Are you going to protect the rights of the Turkish farmer, protecting the rights of foreign capital? I want to pay for this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'm not saying anything for the officers, my dear friends, because the government and MEMUR-SEN went hand in hand, arm in arm, they gave the officers the biggest stake, they gave them 123 lira, they were very happy with their lives, it seems. Now they're screaming "inflation difference." So, which union did we not want the difference in inflation? So, what union did he go and sign? If the government's proposal had been accepted, they would have received more money today. If a union official sells it, it's called the yellow union. It's his name all over the world, not all over Turkey, and you've been sold, so don't be sorry. My dear friends, this government's report card is more corrupt: the Economic and Social Council. What was the Economic and Social Council? It was to be collected every three months. Look, there's a constitutional board, there's a law, it's held every three months. Who's the president? Mr. Prime Minister. Do you know the last time he was assembled? February 5, 2009. 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, and now we come to 2015, why don't we gather? When a citizen disobeys the law, we lock him up. What do we do when the government doesn't comply? Why don't you ask? Question 6: Mr. Prime Minister, despite the will of Parliament of the Economic and Social Council -- because he passed the law -- why don't you gather it and for what reason? With all this unemployment, when the farmer's miserable, the retired tradesman is miserable, why don't you get together with the Economic and Social Council? Is it because you will be told the truth of Turkey and you will be crushed under it? My dear friends, after the Prime Minister became Prime Minister, there was a fine sentence he said: "Take me in. " That's right. We'll sign under it. Why shouldn't we talk to the Prime Minister? He runs the country, but we have concerns. You will be free of your political custody, Mr. Prime Minister, and you will be free of political custody. They hung a drum around your neck; someone upstairs has the gavel; no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You'll use your powers as Prime Minister to the full, we don't criticize, that's one thing, but there's no two-headed government in Turkey. I'll give you two typical examples, and I'll cut to the chase. The first is: 26 November 2014, Mr. President has made a statement: we're going to give loans to the people, we're going to do this, we're going to do this, hopefully it's going to happen this afternoon. I'm curious, is there a President of Social Security? I do. Who's it up to? It's up to the Minister of Labor and Social Security. If he's going to make the announcement, let him do it. He didn't do it, you do it as Prime Minister; you don't do it, he does it without any authority. So we have a huge question in our head: who is running this country? It's a huge question mark. If the farmer is to be credited, if he is to be credited, if the officer is to be given an advantage, it is the Prime Minister who will explain it. If it goes up there, the mallet is there, the drum isn't here, it's not making a sound, it's making a different sound. (HPP clapping in rows) There's no harmony. There's no harmony in government administration. So I told you, it looks like both seats are empty. Well, you're interfering with each other's business. Excuse me, you don't interfere, he interferes with your business! No! That's not gonna happen! Secondly, Mr Putin has arrived, they have met with Mr Erdogan. They discussed a 6 per cent discount due to natural gas. Putin came out, made a statement. Either the Minister of Energy has an explanation for this, saying 6 percent is not enough. Who's negotiating? Aren't you the government? Why aren't you interfering? So don't take these criticisms as a criticism to you, Mr. Prime Minister, to defame you. The basic point of this criticism is to keep your seat. Well, that's why I'm criticizing you. Don't let anyone interfere with your field; if you do, your Prime Ministership will be a subject of debate not only in Turkey, but throughout the world. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Prime Minister says a lot of nice things sometimes, and he makes sentences. I'm really grateful to him for using those statements. There's an explanation on August 27, 2014. He sees politics as a matter of virtue and morality. Congratulation from the bottom of my heart. Politics is a matter of virtue and morality. He also says that the morality of our political system is the morality of Sheikh Edebali. There is no doubt that we all sign under it. We all know what Sheikh Edebali is. It is a common duty for all of us to honor that morality. I also say that morality is the common denominator of all beliefs, and Mr. Davutoglu says that in our ancient cities -- at the beginning of this, Istanbul -- we will apply horizontal architecture, not vertical architecture. It's very beautiful, Mr. Prime Minister, you will apply horizontal architecture. I'm going to give you a nice, clear, clear example -- you're the prime minister, you're going to prove your prime minister. The 16/9 towers of Istanbul's Oliveburnu have been stabbed like a dagger into the Sultanahmet Mosque. He's ruining her image. It's a court order. He needs a shave. I told the former Prime Minister he didn't shave. I'm upset, too. He said. Now that you're Prime Minister, you're referring to the law to Sheikh Edebali, fine. Let me tell you about these apartments, this apartment. The price of these apartments ranges from 1 million to 4 million. It's between an old price and a trillion to four trillion. Who took the apartment from here? Former Bağcı Mayor, former İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality Secretary-General, Deputy Secretary-General, Chairman of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality Development Commission, Chairman of Oliveburnu Municipality Development Commission and Mr Nihat Zeybekci, who served with you. He has more than one apartment. The funny thing is, they paid such a big price without taking out a loan from anywhere. Put that in your memory, Prime Minister. What I'm asking is, are you going to rule the law? Are you going to carry out the court order? Will you keep the 138th article of the Constitution on the agenda, and will you obey it? If you shave him, I'll say: "Here, the real Prime Minister." (Applause from the CHP rows) If you don't shave him, I'm sorry, your Prime Minister is a subject of debate. Another important issue: Perhaps with excitement, Mr. Prime Minister, the trees are being cut down in Yalova, why don't you speak? Did you hear anything? He called out. He's right, he's right. Why didn't you speak when we were sensitive to trees? I'll talk to him if he waits a day. Anyway... we talked, we said we didn't find it right. We also told him why we didn't find it right. But I have a question for the Prime Minister. You asked me, and I answered, and I expressed my thoughts. Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you ever talk about this illegal palace? Why don't you talk? He said, "Why do you not speak?" You guys need to talk the most. You know why? The reason is: Look, dear friends, February 2012; three institutions are coming together -- the Prime Minister's Office, Forest General Directorate, TOKI -- they're setting up a protocol, the Prime Minister's building is being signed and implemented. Now, my 7th question is to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0010par0207	8.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0208	8. My 8th question to Mr. Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, for what reason did you dedicate a building and protocol as the Prime Minister's office to the presidency? On what grounds? It was made for the Prime Minister. He's taking the building with him. (CHP and AK PARTIES) Well, aren't you going to say, 'Ya, this building was built for the PM's office, there's protocol. How can you leave?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0011par0210	Switching to the presidential system, the presidential system.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0211	My dear friends, the 9th question to the Prime Minister: Now, I'm going to give you some figures about this building, about this illegal palace, and I'm sure you'll all be amazed. These numbers don't belong to me, they belong to a government audit agency, they belong to the Court. There's serious corruption in the illegal palace. Example: dignating soft and hard soil at every depth with the machine. Such is the definition. The price set by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is $3.10 per cubic meter. You know what the contractor's price is? The money is $37.19, the difference is 1.120. (The difference is 980 percent.) Elle sand and gravel spread. (The difference is 1.915 per cent. There's a list, Mr. Prime Minister, if you'd like, I'll give you this list; if you'd like, you're the Prime Minister, Mr. Cemil Cicek will bring this report from the Court and put it in front of you. The question is, are you or are you not going to start an investigation in a place where there's such a big price difference? Will you guard the rights of an orphan, and cover him with a shawl? That's what I want to know. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister gets mad once in a while. He's right. He says, "If we had brothers to reach out for the people, we would tear them off." Thank you, we have no objection. (Cheers and applause) (PARTI staffs cannot be blamed on the fight against transparency and corruption. It's not talking, it's everybody talking. The prime minister's office is not the office of speech, but the authorities to do what is necessary. If you do what you need to do, we'll respect you. It's not right to bring you an unfair criticism, but if you don't do what's necessary, we have to criticize. I gave you an example of Abu Zer about that palace. Sahabe is in Adıyaman. The deputy was building himself a magnificent green palace in Damascus, like this one. Abu Zer went and said to the deputy: "If you have built this palace with the people's money, it is theft, it is injustice; if you have built this palace with your own money, it is waste, it is unlawful. (Applause fromCHP desks) I only ask you to interpret the thoughts of Abu Zer. Look, I want you to translate the thoughts of Abu Zer. Now, look, we said this palace was illegal, and we said it was illegal. At last, the Minister of Justice said to this parliament, "Yes, there is a verdict." And he said, "There's a law against it. What did he say, Mr. President: "Let them destroy it if they can." We are not willing to destroy it, I'll tell you that, but let them destroy it if they can afford it. Do you know what that means? Mr. Davutoglu is clearly challenging you. Because you're the one who's going to destroy it, not me. You're the one who's going to carry out the verdict. If they can afford it, let them tear it down. Well, can you afford it? I personally think it's not going to be enough, so I'm sorry. My sincere opinion is that they can't afford it. And another funny thing is, my dear friends, they're asking what the price of the palace is; what's it cost? How much does it cost? Finance Minister Plan has made a statement in the Budget Commission, a number called $1 billion,370 million, if I remember correctly, at an old price, 1 quadrillion 370 trillion liras. According to the Information Act, Ankara's Chamber of Architects is writing to TOKI, saying: "Let us know what the actual prices are. Do you know what the answer is, my dear friends? Since information and documents that will harm the country's economic interests or cause unfair competition and gain in case it is announced or announced ahead of time, we cannot inform you of the price. If you've moved the goods, you've already done enough, we've explained the prices. How come you don't explain something like that? On what grounds don't you explain?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0012par0216	Not a very good budget speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0217	Do you know why it's not explained, and I'll tell you, there are hot tubs made for 8,000 lira a square metre? They have steam rooms for 8,000 lira a square metre. Is your conscience capable of that? My conscience doesn't allow it, I'm disturbed. If your conscience allows, I have no objection. I specifically gave the example of Abu Zer. Then we all need to sit down and think. If he did it with his own money, I wouldn't make a sound, but it was built with the money of the poor poor of this nation's palace, the runaway palace, isn't it a shame? Sir, that's dignity. Great palaces have never brought dignity to any people, and there is no precedent in the world, a palace that brings dignity. Do you know where Merkel lives? He lives in his apartment. Germany has no reputation, is that what we're going to think? Look at Japan, or look at America, our runaway palace is three times as big as he is, four times bigger; poor American, with no reputation! Dignity happens with knowledge, with dignity; dignity comes with knowledge, with reports published by your universities; dignity comes with morality, with virtue; dignity comes with justice. If you've got it, you've got it. If you don't have it, there's no dignity. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And another illegal business: Mr. Prime Minister says, "I'll rip off your arm if anyone commits corruption." Mr. Prime Minister, don't cut off anyone's arm, just activate the institutions of the state, that's all, we want it." I'll tell you a story: 1.5 tons of gold stories, dear friends. On January 1, 2013, a plane leaves Ghana, landing at Ataturk Airport. Customers go, they say, "What's in it?" They say, "There's a natural stone in it." Yes, Turkey is covered in stones, so we don't need it. Who did you bring this to? They also give me an address, and I'll read the address: "Beautytown, Thunder Whiteıt Street, Delta Apartments, A2 Blok, No.22, Beylikdüzü/İstanbul." We brought him here. They call him. Open up, let's see these stones. They open the lid, not 1.5 tons of natural stone, but 1.5 tons of gold; 1.5 tons of gold. Now, my dear friends, if you bring illegal televisions, they'll confiscate the television, if you bring bicycles, they'll confiscate the bike, and if you bring marbles, they'll confiscate the marble. For what reason was 1.5 tons of gold not confiscated -- another question, Mr. Prime Minister -- on what grounds? Where do you sell confiscated goods? It's sold at the Kingdom Store in the nation. Let my fellow lawmakers go and see it. There's a dress in there, there's a TV, there's a coffee table, there's everything. If the fugitive is coming, it's confiscated. One-and-a-half tons of gold coming in, coming in, not being confiscated. Let me read to you the inspector's report, Mr. Prime Minister: The documents from Ghana...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0013par0225	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, your promised time is up, but I'll give you two minutes to finish your speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0014par0226	You gave the Minister five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0227	Mr. President, I'm making a point.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0013par0228	Yeah, you go ahead, you go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0229	Good, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0013par0231	I didn't make this decision, you did.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0232	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0013par0233	I'll show you the tolerance.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0234	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0013par0235	Please don't argue. You made the decision, I didn't.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0236	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Reza Zarraf comes in, calls me, save me. What's customs, he says? The person across the street says, "What have you done to Teoman, what promises...?" He says, "I don't burn my office, I don't take bribes." Then they sent it away, rewarded the man who didn't take bribes, and sent him away. Now, I'm also curious, Mr. Prime Minister, that you haven't confiscated the property. Customs inspectors have a report, you've seen it. If you haven't seen it, I'll send you that report. You sent the plane back, you sent it back with gold, you didn't confiscate it. Question number one: why didn't you confiscate the contraband? My second question, dear friends, is something even stranger... they're looking back at the gold, there's no gold, there's no gold, there's no gold, there's no 295 pounds. The next question, Mr. Prime Minister, is who stole the gold, and who took it? Until today... look, Reza Zarraf doesn't complain, he doesn't say his gold's gone, he doesn't appeal to the court, but if there's an article about him, he goes to court and sends a retraction. I'll tell you the price of 292 kilos of gold: $14,600,000. On what grounds was this gold sent back? Who's got 292 kilos of gold? Now, you're the Prime Minister, you've got a lot of government institutions at your disposal, get them moving. I'll cut this short. I expect an answer from you, and Parliament awaits, and Parliament awaits. Foreign policy: The Prime Minister is one of the architects of foreign policy. Look, dear friends, this is a little girl from Syria, who's in Istanbul, in the cold, in traffic, in the red light, the cars stop and go, trying to warm up in the exhaust smoke. This is the view they brought Turkey to. Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0015par0241	Please, friends, please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0242	You brought 1.5 million Syrians to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0015par0244	Friends, please... you will answer, the speech will be given to you later.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0245	I'm not asking you guys the question, I'm asking you the question. You indulge in this government. You don't obey the law, you don't make noise, you don't make noise, you don't make illegal transactions, you don't make noise. That's why I'm not asking you. We don't expect anything from you anyway, I'm asking these questions. Why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0016par0247	You're saying it all wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0248	You're confusing legislatures with executives. These are the executives, we'll find out what they're running. It's as simple as that. You're the legislature, you're the organ to answer to. We don't ask you to answer, we tell you the truth, we ask you questions. If we're wrong, they'll tell us here. They're the government, aren't they? Why are you taking responsibility for them? Why do you take responsibility for the people who have earned the rights of an unfinished orphan? [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] There's blood flowing in Syria. There was a sentence said by the president, very important, at one meeting he said: "One is attacking God, and the other is attacking the other, saying, 'Allah Allah God,' and they are killing each other. Who prepared this? It's a shame about the people who died there. 1.5 million Syrian Turkey. Go see what's going on with those women, those young girls in Turkey. You don't believe us, don't you guys read the U.N. reports? I'm sorry they're human, human. Of course, let's face it, our guests, but my dear friends, this foreign policy bill is coming out to our nation. Why are you praising this policy? On what grounds do you praise him? I thought he had two months left. Look, we don't have embassies in three major centers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Cairo doesn't exist.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0017par0253	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I've given you three more minutes. It's been five minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0254	I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0017par0255	I'll give you one more minute. Finish your vows, please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0256	We don't have an embassy in Cairo, we don't have an embassy in Damascus, we don't have an embassy in Tel Aviv, but the official of France can go and see him in Damascus, and the US Foreign Minister can. We wanted to send an ambassador to Egypt, Egypt said, "We don't want your ambassador." Isn't that bad enough, fellas? What do we have against Egypt? We're against the coup, of course we're against the coup. We're gonna go in there and take a hit because we're against a coup? You say it democratically, you explain your thoughts, you say the coup doesn't suit you, you say you're against the coup, but you can't declare a people an enemy altogether.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0018par0257	The people?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0008par0258	Yes, a whole community has been declared enemies. Are the words of the Sheikh of El Ezher a word to be swallowed? Go, take a taxi in Egypt, tell me you are Turkish, and what will they tell you? My dear friends, this is the first time Turkey has faced such a painting. From here to all my countrymen, never be pessimistic, never be pessimistic. Turkey is a big country, Turkey is a strong country, it overcomes all its problems, despite the government. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0019par0262	Thank you, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Adil Zozani of Hakkari. Here you go, Mr. Zozani. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is thirty minutes since you split it. I'll give you the extra time. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0020par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute you on behalf of our group, the People's Democratic Party, who are watching us on the screen. In Ermenek, in Soma, in the underworld, in the mining disasters, in the work killings of our people, and in the streets of Rojhat Özdel, I would like to begin by wishing God's mercy and condolences to their families. Today is December 10th World Human Rights Day, and the opening day of our budget, the first day of our talks on the whole budget coincided with the 10th of December World Human Rights Day. On this occasion, we wish that all of our people who have been violated in the streets should be customers, to fight against these algebraic approaches, to leave our streets empty, not leaving our squares empty, and only in this way, I wish to give this message, and on December 10th, we wish that our people would never, ever ignore the importance of the street for democracy to flourish. I took the budget rights to the top on December 10th, and I'm going to start with the budget. One of the things that democratic societies don't have is budget rights, the right to use the budget, economic resources. If economic resources are shared equally and fairly and divided, you can talk about budget rights, so the basic rule is equal use of resources. The second key rule is that the resources used in terms of budgetary rights are manageable. If you can control resources, it's important, but in the present situation, we're dealing with a picture of the budget not being audited, and the budget isn't being audited. I'll go to your data, share it with you in detail, about why you're not being audited. However, the paintings the Minister of Finance originally presented on behalf of the government, the pink paintings that the Prime Minister is likely to produce here, will provide here, are certainly and certainly do not reflect the reality of Turkey. Look, Mr. Finance Minister made his statement here. I guess he didn't have the opportunity to add the last number or recur it in that direction. Turkey's third quarter growth in 2014 was expected in the Central Time Program at a range of 2.9 per cent to 3 per cent. Today's announcement is 1.7 percent. Since he could not revisit his speech, he shared numbers, statistics, through the Central Future Program. So let me just say from the very beginning that what's said, the statistics expressed, do not reflect the truth. First of all, we have to state that the General Assembly has no authority over the budget building of Parliament. We're going to talk about the budget for 13 days. Will the General Assembly be able to replace a decimal in the budget? He won't be able to change it. Will he be able to reduce a grant? It won't. Will he be able to raise a grant? He won't. So, what's the General Assembly gonna do here? He's got one authority; he's either going to accept it or he's going to deny it. He's either gonna take it all or he's gonna turn it all down. So we're talking about a certain painting from the beginning. You'll have to accept it, it'll go this way. So, during the Plan and Budget Commission -- which, according to the Constitution, is the only mechanism in the budget that can increase or reduce funding -- is there such a chance here? It's not there either. No matter the Parliamentary arithmetic of the 40-member Commission, 25 members are absolute members of the ruling party. Is there any chance in a 25-member commission that the government will make a change in a budget brought before the Commission? There isn't. Can you state that the Court can do the audits properly as the mechanism that controls for Parliament? You can't because Parliament determines members of the Court. Based on what? It determines by the number of fingers. Is there any chance that the court, the ruling party, the ruling party, and therefore the government, can submit any report that the ruling party has not participated in, or does it have that ability? There isn't. So we're talking about a budget that has no control at all, no control at all. Is the efficiency of resources, the efficiency of the performance measurement -- in the Number of Laws -- able to meet the need for legal regulation on efficient use? He can't. Is Parliament capable of carrying out? He can't. So, what budget are we talking about? In no way are we talking about a budget created by operating the institutions and mechanisms of democracy -- which have no democratic functioning. Look -- any village elder delegation -- considers Ankara the centre of a water or road study in a village in a remote part of Turkey, says, "You don't know, I will do it." He says, "I'll decide." However, a village elders' decision can be made freely by you from Ankara, and you set the source accordingly. So we're talking about a budget structure with no locals in it, no locals in it, but basically you're talking about the locals themselves. You're talking about a road to any town, any village, an investment, a waterworks, a school, a health clinic. This is in the details of the budget, these are all in the details presented to the Commission. None of these are authorized by the locals to participate. At this point, I would like to remind you of the European Union's local autonomy condition, which it seems to have signed on the basis of Turkey. If you want, if you really want, if you really want this budget to be a democratic process, if you want to share resources democratically and equally, let's make a decision from your local. Let's take this agreement, which you have given to the local authorities and put under it, in a reasonable way, into the agenda of Parliament, and accept the European Union's local autonomy requirement. We say, "Let's take away our martyrs, 10 articles, and our martyrdom in the dam." One by one, there's a line here, and I'm not going in because we don't have time. There are examples of Europe, there are examples of the world, there are successful examples of this, there are examples of France and Italy, which, starting with the founding of the republic, are also the source of a disaster in Turkey's legal infrastructure, so let's see how they operate their administrative mechanisms. Look, France has changed the constitutional system 15 times since the founding of the republic, and they're not afraid, they're doing it. But we've only taken the founding anniversary of the republic, that twenty-year-old fascist European tradition that coincides with the founding period, and we've tried to disguise it here in our society, and we've stayed there. All our administrative structures are like this, we can't talk about a democratic process, we can't talk about it at all. So if you really want to carry ground initiative on this, you have to start here. Another important issue -- most of you go when we're talking about it, most of you are uncomfortable -- is the issue of interstate inequality. In fact, in polite speech, the inequality between the regions is essentially an intergalactic exploitation mechanism. Some regions of Turkey are being exploited for the development of some other regions, in fact. When you look at Turkey's GAP story, when you read Turkey's 40-odd-odd GAP story, you will see very clearly how this exploitation wheel works. GAP is a two-unit project: energy production and irrigation. 100 per cent of Turkey's energy needs in the pen have been completed as of this project, and Turkey has 100 per cent of its electricity production from the GAP. So, what's the status of the second unit, the irrigation unit? Let me put it this way, we're around 21 percent. This government took out 11 ministers and the Prime Minister of the period in Diyarbakir, 2008. That was the biggest lie ever told in the GAP. In a year and a half, all the irrigation projects would have been finished. 11 ministers and Diyarbakır have been released and have made a statement in Diyarbakır, Prime Minister of the period. What has been done today? Adds 3% to what's available, as long as it's the watering size. Last year, the minister showed our Commission the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission the watering channels filled with Photoshop, showing pictures. He couldn't deny it, we proved it with evidence. It was brought in a water-filled irrigation channel, shown in the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission. Look, it's the government's reality, that's what it does. Well, in terms of the GAP region... now you're giving a number, and in Turkey, you're saying it's about $10,500 per person's share. Right, that's the general Turkey, that's the average Turkey. What is the average income per person in the GAP region? It's about $4,000. I mean, Turkey is two and a half times its average. What is the national income per capita in the Mariana region of Turkey, where GAP resources are presented as a exploitation mechanism? It's $24,000. Now, as we lay out this painting here in front of you, you find it uncomfortable to mention this painting. I'm not going to rephrase what we said last year to make sure that you don't get nervous, but let it be in my speech as a footnote. This budget is not a gender egalitarian budget, first of all. It's a budget that ignores women's labor, a budget that ignores women's employment, and what's more, a budget that ignores women's participation in economic production. In terms of OECD countries, as of this budget, the woman's employment turnout is the lowest, Turkey is 27 per cent over, the lowest. The woman's participation in the employment process is 30.9%. Thus, we face a political mentality that only applies to the woman's domestic affairs. It's also very important to which sectors women work in employment. Most of the women shown in employment pens work in agricultural and auxiliary services. Thus, the woman's turnout is very, very weak. I'd like all lawmakers to pay attention, the ministers will come, they'll sit here with the bureaucrats, during the General Assembly's work, you'll see how many female bureaucrats, how many female bureaucrats here you'll see. The mentality here also manifests its view of women's employment in a way that ignores women. In honor, I must say, not only in Turkey, but in Middle Eastern geography, we're a political opinion that stirs up the wheel of exploitation of women's labor, we're a political party, we're a political mindset, we're going to continue to stir up confusion. We will continue our struggle until we have the woman's appearance in social life, her appearance in the working world, and her appearance within the mechanism of governance to the point she deserves, you can be sure of that. Because we believe that it is not possible for a society to be free or free if it does not set it free. The fundamental dynamic of social freedom is the woman herself. If you're locking her up, taking her freedom, you can't talk about social freedom. There'll probably be a lot of debate in this budget from last year. The administrative and political structure of Turkey must now be discussed. There will be a lot of talks about corruption, bribery and so on, but we believe that it is impossible to solve corruption through the system through the system, not through the right window. But when you take yourself out of this system, when you look outside the system, your word is worth something. It's very clear and clear. In the opposite case, in the stonings from within the system, we make the meaning of this -- sirs, you've filled the bag, you've taken your turn, you've taken it as far as you can, now it's our turn to withdraw, and now we're taking you out of the system. As long as you don't look at this issue, that's what you're saying in society, and unfortunately, the society is starting to merge with the perception of who comes. The society began to say that whoever comes is taking them anyway. This is the point of internal discussion. There is another important problem, which is: Yes, Turkey is currently implementing the system of vice president, the operational presidential system is being implemented. The Prime Minister isn't here, I think he's gone, he's probably listening on TV, I hope. Really, I wonder what the Prime Minister is describing himself as inside this system. Look, there were protests in Ankara in May 2013 because of travel actions. The President of the period, Mr. Gul, has advised the governor of Ankara not to cause any excesses, that law enforcement should tolerate those in the demonstration. The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Erdogan, came out, made a statement, said: "There are no two heads in one country. Two can't give a governor instructions, the governor is under my command, I give instructions. The same Erdogan now instructs the governor, not the President, to the police in the street. We expect Mr. Davutoglu to use the same sentence as Mr. Erdoğan. Yes, there are no two heads in a state, I should tell the governor not you, but I should be the Prime Minister of the ruling party, not you. If he says that, he'll be Prime Minister, and Mr. Davutoglu won't be able to be Prime Minister of this country unless he says so. We don't have a problem with who he is, who he is. We're talking about the state mechanism of the board, and that's what happens when he gets himself out of it. I'm not eager to get too involved with the palace. Frankly, I have nothing to do with building fetishism. But if the symbol of many cities in Turkey is pears, apples, potatoes, tomatoes, watermelons, melons, e, the symbol becomes a palace, what happens? You've made the symbol of the provinces watermelon, measured the temperature of the provinces in melons, measured them with potatoes, and no one will be very disappointed if you make the country a palace symbol anymore. It's true... it's no longer a very intriguing subject. Do we approve? No, it's not possible. But what we really care about is the torn black tire on Uncle Recep's foot, what does it go as? That's an Ankara tire. By God, in Ankara, the tire got loose, the strap snapped in Ankara, Ankara. Therefore, politics' debates are no longer worth much. We want to discuss the system again, we need to discuss the system, we have to do something new. If you agree to restore a mansion in the village of Şemdinli, Şemdinli district of Hakkari, Ankara, it will not be a fair and rightful budget. Another important topic is this: Now, the ministers have pronounced many ministers, and the Finance Minister has also pronounced them; Turkey has said that Turkey has spent $1.2 trillion in the war against Kurdish people in the last 30 years. I'm curious, what could be done in this country with $1.2 trillion in cash? My dear friends, with $1.2 trillion, which is 30 per cent more than the current grossness of Turkey, it's a matter of the size of our economy of 891 billion; I've just expressed it, again, that the amount of income per person is 10,500 dollars, let alone 2013 vision targets, in the current case, that no one in the world should be able to move on a stone, and that no one in the world should be able to put stones on a stone, and that Turkey should be able to walk at the final speed of 2023, in order to achieve its current state of government. But as a matter of fact, I'll put the number in front of you: If Turkey had run democratic ways and methods, respected human rights, if it hadn't taken shelter in the back of their denial and denial policies, if it hadn't used a bomb against its own people, if it hadn't bombed its mountain, its stone, with $1.2 trillion, Turkey would now have reached its vision goal of 2023. As of today, every citizen living in Turkey would have received a share of the illegal national product over $25,000 and would have exceeded its bid of $2 trillion. Look, it's such a clear account. Well, I figured, with this $1.2 trillion, if the mountain hadn't been bombed by stone, the tank, the rifle, the plane, the helicopter, what could be done with that money? Look, dear friends, 25 percent of this money could have been made into 24 classes of 296,703 schools. With 25 percent of this money, 56,750 hospitals could be built with 400 beds, full-fledged. The problem with our miners is that their drama is pathetic, it's on our agenda, and on top of that, I thought, what would happen if 25 percent were spent on underground job security, what would happen to the painting? I did it through the 40-man living rooms account, and the exact 29,875 living rooms could be built underground. By 25 percent, a subway line could be made from Hakari to Edirne. 4,820 kilometers of subway lines could've been made if he hadn't spent that money. Turkey's foreign policy issue is pathetic, and we'll get to it when it comes to it. However, we would like to make a emphasis on where Turkey stands. Turkey must end the tightness between the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, led by the United States with the European Union and the Asian Pacific Investment Partnership, led by Russia and China. Turkey's future is nowhere near here. Turkey's future is nowhere near here because they don't include Turkey, so push as hard as you want. In foreign policy, you agreed to a guided strategic partnership. Of course, you're obliged to wear the dress you've been given, the dress you've been cut for. The exit isn't here. In its nearby geography, Turkey must search the exit. With three parameters, Turkey is able to pave its way through the geography in which it resides. One: freedom. Two: democracy. Three: Turkey will be able to rely on the voluntary interconnection of differences, and only this way will Turkey be able to open its way. Then Turkey will be able to take the role model country position in terms of its close geography. When he does, Turkey will be able to open its way, and Turkey will become a growing economy. The opposite is not possible; Turkey is not able to travel. Freedom is a prerequisite for people who have been denied, whose identities have been destroyed. In terms of the culture of living together, the concept of democracy is a prerequisite. If we apply this principle in terms of culture, we will have a chance to solve our problems. Look, Turkey needs to give up its cult habits. Turkey must give up its racially based approaches. I claim, look, I claim, according to the Constitution of 1924 and the following laws, Turks are not Turks in Turkey. Look, there's a legal arrangement in Turkey that's been ruled out by the historical history of Turk. After 1924, the Turk is no longer a Turk in the social mind. From his own historical past, culture, identity... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're talking about a well-regulated Turkicism now.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0021par0297	Mr. Zozani, your time is up. I'll give you an extension. Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0020par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. After 1924, all of the institutions formed were created through this rejection culture. The Head of Religious Affairs is at the beginning of all of this. If you want to build a social design, if you want to start the democratization move, you will once abolish the institutions established after 1924 to design rejection and denial policies. The Head of Religious Affairs is at the beginning of this. If you don't remove it, there's no way you can do the rest, there's no way you can do anything else. Established in 1924, the Head of Religious Affairs had two basic goals. What is it? One: the closing of the barracks. Two: the closure of the Medrases. The Alevis used the camps in this geography, the Kurds used the madrases. They started with the president of the Dianet Affairs Department in 1924 to cut off the faith resources of these two social dynamics and impose the Sunnity of Turkish-Islam syntheses. Look, it's important, as of that date, that the end of the tradition of the madrasa, which most of the Islamic ulam has ever been fed, is an important development, a coup attempt. Yes, the establishment of the Head of Religious Affairs in 1924 is a coup in Turkey, a coup in the faith. Turkish sensitivity is at the top of that. What Turkish sensibilities? I'm going to finish with a statement from Fethullah Gulen, in an interview in 1992, Mr. President. We will see the destruction of this monotheistic understanding clearly and clearly. What does he say, Fethullah Gulen? He is asked: "Why have you never met Saidi Kurdi? Why didn't you go to poor time? He says: "I was going to go to Badiz time and kiss his hand, and then when I found out he was Kurd, I gave up. Do you know what it means? ▪ A Kurdish cannot be a ulema. A Turk can't go and kiss his hand if he's being made from a Kurdish. In his interview, he says: "My nationalist sensitivities, even my Turanism, are heavy." Now, he ignores the cultures in Anatolia, ignores the different identities in Anatolia, eliminates the differences in this mind, and brings out a picture like this. We're going to discuss a budget in this painting.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0022par0304	Thank you, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0020par0305	I hope and wish that we can effectively run our social dynamics and create a social transformation that will lead to the preparation of democratic budgets. Thank you all, and good luck.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0022par0308	Thank you, Mr. Zozani. The second word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0312	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to extend our love and respect to our people who are watching us on TV. This is the public's bench, this budget is not the public's budget, we're going to talk about it. We worked 22 days and 171 hours and 55 minutes on the commission, day and night, until two. We've worked in a narrow hall, in a corridor, where there are 500 bureaucrats, a female bureaucrat who's been on his feet for 14 hours with a computer, and we've worked under the conditions of a mobing. It's Human Rights Day. If I can't protect my own law as a parliamentary speaker, how can I protect the rights of my citizens? As Parliament Speaker -- including your budget -- we don't want a palace by hand, but build a budget commission with a humanitarian way of working. And let the bureaucrats have a chair to sit in, and I invite your government to stand here on Human Rights Day, human rights, law, democracy. Congressmans, budget rights are the essence of democracy. We wrote down a lot of things to say here in opposition, printed, distributed to you. However, if you flood the budget into things that only experts understand and the public doesn't understand, then there's no transparency here if these expenditures, transfers, subsidies, are obscured, and the government doesn't answer. Look, be careful, there's no transparency in this budget. Again, no participation. You don't want the opposition to participate, but I want to make it clear to you from here that the most important thing to mark this budget is corruption. See, corruption has spread like cancer, corrupting humanity, justice, society. According to the 2014 results of the Transparency International, we were ranked 53) in the 53rd place in 175 countries, and we fell to 64. We are number 27 in Europe, my friends. Look, Transparency International says that there is a connection between corruption and freedom of expression. Look, it's a very important issue. Anti-judgment, non-corruption, Internet, social media bans, judicial and security packages, the law of oppression suggests that we are actually having a serious democracy problem. Travel events, December 17th to December 25th, which I would like to remind you -- it must be a pure coincidence -- a young man in Tunisia burned himself in front of the municipality on December 17, 2010, and that was when the Arab Spring began. On December 17th, four ministers were forced to resign from the Cabinet in the corruption incidents in Turkey. Right now, there's an investigation in Congress. Now, in his research with 801 businessmen, all businessmen say there is corruption. According to the Global Corruption Barometer, one out of five people in Turkey are bribing to use public services. According to a report by the European Commission, 64.5 per cent do not believe in the neutrality and independence of courts. The number of people who believe that human rights has been violated is 47.8%. So the official apartment has developed a yellow envelope fashion, my friends. You remember Fuzuli's complaint, and I said hello, and they didn't take it as a bribe. We've reached that point. Now, the MIT, the Internet, the HSYK, the bag of laws, they're all your creations; look, pay attention after these events. The case of the Kenan Universe will soon fall from the statute of limitations, and you will say, "Ahaha here is the Hasip Kaplan." You also cleared the coup d'états of September 12th because all the September 12th cases started to expire. Today, on the Day of Human Rights, I invite you to come to the people's rights, and this government will not be given a statute of limitations on crimes against humanity. In your time of power, the citizen was suspicious. You have removed the sacred right to defend. You told the lawyers not to look at the file. You've destroyed the law to eavesdrop without impounding it. You've given the police the right to have 48 hours in the house and in the car without a court order. I mean, you've declared a state of emergency in Turkey, but according to the Constitution, this is declared, friends. There are conditions for martial law, an extraordinary state of state. Corruptions are like icebergs, just a little face that looks. In the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, as in Roboski, the laundering commission continues to work. We weren't involved in this, we filmed our member, and in the history of Congress -- in the 38 investigative commission -- the first gag order has been imposed by the AK PARTY, my friends. Now, the Court is inspecting for Congress. So, who appointed the president? The government. Where does the government come from? From the AK PARTY. Who's the majority in the House? AK PARTY. So, the legislature merged with the administration and appointed its own White Court. With the White Court, of course, he will work to justify himself. He didn't come there for nothing. If he doesn't work, he can't come back. Whether empty reports come to the House for him, whether the Court does not work, or the Speaker does not do his duty, your name cannot be cleared, let us tell you that. At the time during the 2003 parliamentary talks, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ had said very well, it was decided that there was no follow-up on previous coalition cases, that they were the ruling majority, that they were invalid. So we're going to lift the decision, we're going to move the ministers of that time to the Supreme Court, including the Prime Minister. He said, and the decision was made, sent to the Supreme Court. Because those decisions are not certain. You know, it's not like you guys are gonna be in power all the time. Look, I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart, I've told you here before, I'm not asking you to commit harakiri like the Japanese, but clear the way for the trial, go to the judiciary, the independent judiciary is the last port for the citizens to go, my friends. If you can't go to trial, like Luis Barcelonas in Spain, like a minister in Paraguay, like former German President Christian Wulff, like Tokyo Governor Naoki Inose, what shall we call you friends? So come, sit here all the time, and let's say you're a minister? Friends, 10,000 cases have been raised again to the fourth place in the ECHR. I'd like to remind you from here. Dear lawmakers, we said that this budget is not a public budget. In the first century, the writer of the Capital, Thomas Piketty, came to İstanbul in the first century, saying: "There is no data on income distribution in Turkey." Strangely, we have the proverb:..... that money and faith are not known who has it..... that because the writer of Kapital could not know this proverb in the 21st century, the basic philosophy of the AKP governments, how much the faith is hidden, and how much the money is hidden. According to the UBS Bank, which explains the World Wealth Report, Turkey has 915 ultra-rich people who have $120 billion and have won 15 billion a year. They're down to two or three, and they're up 14.3 percent. Do you see my number? These are the numbers, guys. Forbes magazine doesn't say that for nothing. The cities, which are multimillionaires, are ranked fifth with 37 people in Istanbul. Come on... do you understand whose budget this is? Didn't the corporate tax go from 30 to 20 percent in 2006 during the EC PARTY? He's down. We're looking, the government pays the employer's bonus, 6 billion. Tax pardons, financial pardons. What are you getting from the worker? 27 percent of the source, except for the indirect tax. Now, look, in the 452 billion in 2015, the corporate tax is only $36.1 billion. Do you understand who pays this tax? This government is burdened by workers, laborers, civil servants, pensioners, employees, tradesmen, but that's not their budget. Because indirect taxes, 37 per cent in 1980, were 69 per cent in your administration. Even the coupgers were more merciful than you, my friends. So put some hands on your conscience, 27 per cent indirect taxes in the United States, 28 per cent in Germany. You guys have passed Mad Dumrul. You know, the one who passed the bridge, he had five accents, 10 accents without crossing the bridge. Then the last kings of the Ottomans began to take one Akça and one akça from those who entered the Galata Bridge when the situation deteriorated. You also receive three cents from the bridge of the throat, from the bridge of the Conqueror, from the passerby, to the mile by mile, and from the mile by mile by mile. Did you guys know that? When you drive your car, you charge three cents a mile, the AK PARTY government, $3 on the bridge. I don't know what's gonna happen on the third bridge, OGS, HGS, I don't know how it's gonna hit you. Now, we've got Elo Dino; he's got his castle, and he's got his muscle in the Tigris River. He used to throw chains at the other side of the Tigris River, taking tributes from Diyarbakır to Mosul. But I swear the AKP was more ruthless than him, even he would have taken it with mercy. Now, we've asked for a government cut, my friends. The government share in the mine is a right given to local governments, it's in the law. Wow, you're a separatist. They said, "You're a disaster." So, brother, what do you think of this asphalt tax? Your mayor has been in Ankara for 25 years. This asphalt tax... comes from $300 to $70,000 on a citizen's asphalt tax. E, my brother, the beautiful İzmir had a late president, Osman Gentle. He had asphalted all of Izmir, so they called him Asphalt Osman. What shall we say to the one who hasn't been able to asphalt all Ankara in 25 years? Yeah, the front and back of that palace, it's all asphalt; I'm curious, you've got a receipt for the citizen, so what did you get for the mansion? Mr. Prime Minister, let's hope he does, and he'll explain it here. I mean, extortion for the citizens... Look, fellas, let me tell you, thanks to you, 50 million of our citizens have fallen below the age of starvation. How? The numbers of this, the unionists, are here, they know it. The minimum wage is clear 891, right? Well, isn't the officer's minimum salary 2,025? According to Turkish-İHK data in November 2014, the hunger limit is $1,205 per person. Now, let's cut to the chase, don't we have 19 million 482,000 active insurance? I do. You don't have 10 million 795 thousand passive insurance? I do. With 1,733,000 pensioners, they're all below the age of starvation, aren't they? It's below the hunger line. Look at the poverty limit in the family of four, $3,926; it's in the family of four. Now, when we look here, with 3 million, 16,000 officers, 20 million shopkeepers, farmers, pay attention, drivers, grocery stores, carpenters, ice cream makers, all of them, below the poverty line, 50 million. Do you know how much this country, whose 50 million is below the age of hunger and poverty, has a unionization rate? The minister's official statement is that there are only 1,189,000 unions in 12 million 287 workers. You've ruined union rights and freedoms. You created green unions, but on the one hand, you drove through the right-seeking unions with gas and TOMA. You had him quit, forced the officer to resign, or you'd have him fired. This green unionism is worse than yellow unionism, guys. Now, it's up in the open. Yeah, growth went down, numbers didn't work out. I, my friend, explained that I won't go into the numbers, but Turkey's external debt is 400 billion, its GDP is 43.5%. Five of the fragile, one example of five. So, how much is Brazil? 13.2%. 18.9% in India; 28 per cent in Indonesia. Now do you understand why Turkey is the weakest link in global capital, and also the loser of the fragile five? Now, we're going to chair the G20 summit. The exchange rate will be dry, my friends, and there's no prediction. Inflation has risen to over 10 per cent, with the IMF report, with the final explanation. Unemployment has risen to over 10 per cent again. These are the official figures. Believe me, we get calls every day here about unemployment. The court orders of the road workers are not being carried out. Agriculture is looking for food engineers, every day looking for teachers, over 330,000 teachers are waiting for a transfer, so in this country there is an army of young unemployed people. The number of subcontractors is 2 million. Now, friends, I'm going to come to Turkey's most fundamental problem, and I'm going to come to the point why we're giving away the car in the open. Cari, the reason we're out in the open is because of imported energy. The energy field is now mobbed in this government, energy is officially mobbed. Look, politics, then private sector, media -- pay attention to what I say -- global capital, corporations, secret partnerships, commissions and dynastys. Now, you're going to say, "How does this happen?" When Putin arrives, Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant $22 billion, immediately a CED report. The Japanese are coming, and they're doing 22 billion in Sinop, and they're doing it right away. You don't know the limits of HES. May your conscience be ruined.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0024par0333	Let it dry.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0334	You'll go down in history as a government that's done the greatest cultural and natural slaughter ever. Take a good look at this picture of Hasankeyf. (Applause from HDP and CHP) Take a good look at this picture of Hasankeyf, take a good look. History and the people will not forgive you. Why did you do that? Do you know why you did that? That's why they did it, guys, that's why they did it. They call it the Ottoman history, they call it the Ottoman Turkish, they call it the market. Wasn't Hasankeyf fifteen thousand years old; was it not the culture of Turk, Kurdish, Turkmen, Süryani, Arab, and all of them? Is your root so much that it's a square foot in the ground? You've killed Hasankeyf, my friends. It's nothing, it's nothing. IN THE HESEs, you did no bounds, but you did a terrible thing, and you cut down the olives. Look at that tree, look at those olives, guys, those machines that cut the olives... And the olives were sacred, the ancient Greek goddesses would kill those who touched them, execute them, and the crowns of champions in the Olympics would be olive leaves. The dove, sent by Noah the Lord, returned with an olive branch in its beak and became a symbol of peace in the world. In all the scriptures, in the Torah, in the Gospel, in the Quran, the olive was a holy tree. Not Ahmet Arif, nor the poverty, nor the longing. Not a single grain of corn will be offended. Not a single branch of olive... you've done it, sirs, you've done it! He brutalized this energy mob, damn this energy mob, damn it! [[Applause from HDP and CHP rows]] You're cutting down 1,800,000 trees for the British Royal Family at Turgutlu, Mount Rye, nickel mine... You shall destroy the plain of Gediz, and the Garden of Birds shall go, and the Aegean shall go, and the fig shall go, and the grapes shall go, and the cotton shall go, and life shall die. Can you tell me if a company of yours can go and build such a facility in England, poison the environment, drown it in sulfuric acid for nine years? You'll have a little conscience, a conscience. But you've got a wallet, wallet... [[Applause from CHP rows]] At the nuclear plant, the world price of electricity, 5-6 cents kilowatts, you've borrowed this country from 12.38 cents for 20 years, for 20 years. And you owe us grandkids. You'll find it in God's hands. Or should I say, what shall I tell you? You even owe our grandkids 20 years over. You don't have uranium, you don't have equipment, death in coal mines...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0025par0341	What is this, Mr. Hasip?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0342	This is Soma friends. That's what people who burn their lungs and burn their lungs in Ermenek will understand. And these are your work. We gave him two genes yesterday. The minister who doesn't work, the minister who runs out of energy, he's stuck on the stand, he's not quitting. How many people have to die to resign in this country? How many stoves does it have to go out? How many more workers have to die? Humanity, conscience, law, morality, an audit in a country, wouldn't it, friends? Where's the inspection? They said, "There's life going on here, and there's a ministry going on." Since 2012, the Prime Minister had tied the licenses to himself. In fact, I'm asking the Prime Minister if I go, you go, the current President goes, so I don't want to resign. Look, it's not, guys. The energy mafia is working well. Here's another example: do you have a gas report card like this at home? We're very careful with the lady to end the month because they don't give more than $300 more energy, gas. Look, notice, this is AKP's energy report card in the 21st century. This report card would have been in famine and war. Mr. Babacan, he was here, he left...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0026par0346	Here, here.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0347	...he said: "Petrol prices have dropped, and we've lost four and a half billion currents. No raises until June. Why did you give him a 9% raise? Why isn't this rationing? I don't have that either. Now, you don't just kill olives, you don't just slaughter people, you start slaughtering cities, you cement them, you make them uninhabitable, you kill history when you want to keep history. Here's the skyline of Istanbul. This is your photograph, O power! This figure is your zoning, your concrete understanding, your cruel understanding. I thought you were keeping track of your history. Look, behind Sultanahmet, what are these silhouettes in Istanbul, behind Ayasofya?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0027par0349	They're all dollars.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0028par0350	Dollars, dollars...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0351	Yeah, well, what's with the concrete in Istanbul, the concrete? You've turned beautiful Istanbul into concrete, concrete. You've turned it into malls. You know what else you don't understand? This budget isn't already the public's, but it's the government's budget; it's your 13th budget. This is not Uncle Recep's budget; this is his budget; this is his budget, this is his budget, this is his budget. There are two Receps; one Recep, and this Recep. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, bless your palaces. God rest your palaces and plenty of dollars.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0029par0355	It's okay.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0356	It's okay.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0030par0357	Let's get some poison.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0358	However, the HDP will answer to those who do not give alms, the Muslims, the religious merchants, the rich people who do not pay taxes, the people who say "Sacarya," because Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is Turkey's conscience, the people are the people, and if they defend the public's budget, they will answer for it in all areas of life. You will bring the laws of oppression, you will order the police to kill, and you will make a law to put people under all kinds of pressure, and we will be thrown into the square. When we say, "No, you will commit murder, we will hold you responsible for murder." So, shall this opposition be silenced, or shall this opposition not go to the squares, whether it shall walk, whether it shall speak, or not? How will the public express their objection in a democratic country? In the events of October 6-7, the government must come out and answer: What action has the government made regarding 36 people who were killed in İzmir, killed in Antalya, killed in Kurtalan, killed in Dargegit, Varto, Esenyurt, Mush, in many places, killed in the press, despite the fact that these killings were carried out by police, gendarmes, AKP MP, mayor, racists, militia gangs and groups in their own direction? No. We can't control military spending, guys. We're running out of time, but... in military spending, I've received the latest response from the Ministry of National Defense, about the modernisation of F-16, the purchase of F-35, and unfortunately, other than the number given by the government, we've come up with some serious numbers, which is a $27 billion arms sale. Now, the government's 2023 vision saw the revision in 2014. The Ten Year Development Plan, the Midterm Program, followed by the Action Plan, the cumu. The imports of exports have dropped from 66 per cent... 2023 vision: the 10th largest economy, $25,000 per person. Now, for $10,970 this year, $10,570 per person has been reduced. Now, for God's sake, how are you going to do that in 2023? The last picture we saw: the Prime Minister, 11 economies, got in the back of a truck, flat tires, no brakes, pushing the economy truck. It's not working, guys. It's not working. Government, raises, fees, taxes, increase in business, profit, plunder, corruption, decline, inflation rise, privatisation, subcontractor, slavery, unemployment, everything reminds me of you. The government, the TOMA, the gasses, the batons, the Panzers, the women's accidents, the Travel, the Kobani, the murders, the wiretaps, the handcuffs, the jails, the justice, the lost freedoms, everywhere I look.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0031par0365	Mr. Kaplan, you're out of time, I'll give you an extension. Please wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0032par0366	Read the poem again.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0367	The most recent point is that everywhere I look, there's a warrant. Guys, our time is limited, and the president is warning us. However, in foreign policy, I will tell the government that ISIS, DAİŞ, Al Nusra, Al Qaeda, the ideological kinship of Al-Qaeda, lost to you, so give up this dangerous event. They accused you of being governments supporting terrorist organizations. You're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're And then you said, "PYD is the same as PYD." Don't you have a conscience? Take a good look at this picture. The one with the head cut off, ISIS. And for tens of thousands of years, the Kurdish people, the Turks, the Suryanians, they, heroicly these young girls, are fighting against slavers, against those who sell women in the Mosul market. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Kobani resists, Kobani resists and the government falls. When the government falls, the foreign policy falls, the government collapses. Look at these young girls, these heroes. For those who sell women in Musul, Turkmen, Assyria, Ezidi, Kurdish women in Mosul markets, who say, "What shall I say, what shall I say?"
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0032par0369	Say it, say it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0370	No conscience, no humanity, no humanity?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0033par0371	Stay there, stay there. Keep the mastership, Mr. Hasip.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0372	Here are the last of Kobani's official friends and Roboski, the Trip, more, more energy and so on. Look, with Barzani, the flag, Kurdistan... Now, I'm going to tie up my last words.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0034par0375	One minute.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0376	Mr. President, I'll make my final commitments.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0034par0377	Please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0023par0378	They said this budget is not the election budget. It's an election budget, like hell, the election budget. Look, they're going to sell 46 thermals and HES plants for 70 billion. There'll be over 100 billion election funds for 25 sugar mills. Now, the budget that ignores workers is the election and the war budget. Remember, sir, you are not gods. He said, "Don't be proud, my lord. There is a God greater than you." Now, as HDP, we have a couple of words to the government: let's not forget that today, two Turkeys have formed; one at the top of the assets and the other at the top of the poor, two at the top of the poor. This situation is extremely dangerous. You've stretched society like a spring. You've prepared ground and climate for social outbursts. You're on the wrong path, so come to your senses, history and the people will never forgive you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since this people don't have a budget, we vote no, we vote no.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit01spe0035par0384	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 16.40.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will resume our talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Charter. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Mehmet Mushan is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Mush. Your time is thirty minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute your high council. I thank all the employees who have contributed to our Plan and Budget Commission, especially our Finance Minister and relevant bureaucrats, and I thank them for their hard work, and I wish that our 2015 budget would be a blessing for our nation, for our country. Dear lawmakers, first of all, we need to find the answer to the question: What should the budget of a state be? What should he aim for, what should he aim for, and what should he serve? Is the EC PARTY a political investment tool, as before power, or is the election an investment tool, or is the budget a means of distribution of prosperity? We, contrary to our earlier understanding, think that every economic factor is an instrument of prosperity, from the understanding that the budget is a means of distribution of prosperity, and we took it to its center. For that reason, the budgets of the AK PARTI authorities, praise be to God, have always been budgets, not budgets, but budgets, despite lobbying, interest lobbying, ratings. This understanding is one of the most important evidence of how the EC PARTY is a great servant, how you stand in line in front of the nation, and that understanding, praise be to God, is respected by our nation, and the support behind us is growing every day. We, the esteemed lawmakers, have never fled to ease, to the simplicity of saving the day, never attempted. We saw this nation's future, the future of the country's economy in fiscal discipline. With sustainable fiscal discipline, we've been able to eliminate budget balance from being fragile, improve the quality of public spending, and make our budget healthier. This understanding, valued lawmakers, we saw its fruit in the 2008 global crisis, and with the least impact, we continued to expand our economy. See, valuable lawmakers, when there was no crisis in the world, when there was no crisis in the world, we had to deal with the 1994, 1999 and 2001 crises in our country, and we had to deal with them. The more a failure to experience these crises at the time of the world's crisis, the more success it is to overcome that crisis with the least effect, the more it must be accepted, the more appreciated. See, valued lawmakers, three key factors are the banking sector, public debt and budget deficit for Turkey's economy to overcome this global crisis and to expand its economy. These three areas were also the factors that triggered the global crisis. As we entered the crisis, we quickly managed to remove our country from this crisis because we maintained our strong position in these three areas. In the 1990s, the budget balance, the most fragile area of Turkey in those lost years, has become one of Turkey's most powerful areas during the AK PARTI rulings. We've never pursued virtual prosperity. You can't grow 5 percent in a year and prosper by shrinking 5 percent in another year. We said sustainable growth on a healthy economic ground, sustainable development, and our country has been growing for 20 quarters without interruption. We believe that this is the only way lasting prosperity can be produced. We don't believe that by growing a year and shrinking a year, prosperity will be produced. See, valued lawmakers, 12 governments in Turkey have changed in the ten-year period between 1970 and 1980. It is the period of the most intense political instability in the history of Turkey between 1970 and 1980, with an average ten-month government life span. After that, nine governments changed in the eleven-year period between 1991 and 2002. In this period, the average life span of a government is 15 months. This also refers to one of Turkey's intense periods of political instability. Can you imagine, he's doing a government budget, he's finishing his job before he can complete his budget, before he can realize it, another government is coming, or a government is making a budget, he's handing his seat over to another government without seeing the second one, but we've done 12 budgets, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it. Today we are negotiating for the 13th budget at the General Assembly. Hopefully, with the bill of the 20th budget in 2022, with the 21st budget bill in 2023, the AK PARTY Group and the AK PARTY government will be here and will discuss that budget here, and will present it to our nation. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We will, hopefully, explain here how more prosperity was distributed that day, how the budget gave more that day, from this bench, from the AK PARTY Group and from the government. Dear lawmakers, the budget deficit is more important than the issues, the problems that economies, governments have to deal with. Look, we need to compare the ten years before us and our time to a better understanding of the achievements achieved during this period. In the ten years between 1992 and 2002, Turkey's budget deficit is 6.5 per cent. In our time, the budget deficit between 2003-2013 is an average of 3 percent; when you take it from 2010, it falls to 1.9 percent, because in the time that we first came to power, there was a little bit more budget deficit than that, until we were able to control the deficits in the budget, but as of now, it's sitting on 1.9 - 1.5 per cent tape. If 2015-2017 is on the Central Future Program, hopefully we'll leave this budget deficit less than 1 percent lower. Dear lawmakers, in 2014, our government, as in the past years, has achieved budget goals and even achieved performance above goals. We think the budget deficit we predict at 1.9% will be 1.4%. The budget deficit, envisioned at $33 billion, is expected to be $24 billion and $19 billion, while the extra interest is expected to be $26 billion. When we look at the 2015 budget, there's a 452 billion-dollar figure on the income side, 62 of the 390 billion tax revenues from non-tax revenues; on the expense side, there's a budget of 473 billion, with the cost of funding, and on the 2015 plan, the idea of a $21 billion deficit and a national income rate is going to be 1.1 per cent. Dear lawmakers, we have minimized all the pencils that have not increased our economic and social well-being in our budgets, and we have increased the rationing of pencils to improve the quality of life and economic conditions of the nation. Consider a picture: We are taking over the government, 43 per cent of the budget in the period when we are taking over is infested with an interest-only budget and interest-related expenditures, and the budget has been limited. Anyway, it's a vicious cycle; it's given high budget deficits, it needs more resources to finance these high budget deficits, it's more resources, higher interest, higher risk premium, and it's a vicious cycle, and it's almost impossible to get in the way of that. This is how the years of Turkey passed in the 1990s. As soon as the EC PARTY government took over the government, it broke the cycle with its firm, decisive, and fiscal discipline, and soon managed to control the budget. We've moved from a budget that brings prosperity to the interest lobby to a budget that brings prosperity to the nation. Dear MPs, look, if that cycle in 2002 had continued, I'd like to tell you what kind of picture we'd be facing today. If today's financing cost had continued in 2002 instead of 54 billion, we would have earmarked 205 billion for interest. That's a really amazing, huge number. So, imagine, in 2002, 43 liras of $100 were shared in interest, the remaining 57 lira between education, health, safety, social benefits, investment and information services. Likewise, if the rates in this 2002 had continued, Turkey would have to pay 767 billion dollars in cumulative interest by now. Dear lawmakers, we were either going to pay that number, or we were going to minimize our investments in the mandatory services I just mentioned, reset the resources, transfer everything here and there. Here, this cycle, valued lawmakers, is broken. This also has an effect: So when such a high financing cost was in the budget, don't think that we were going to give a budget deficit of about 1.5 per cent, then these budget deficits would be at 9-10 levels, not at a public debt level; don't think that the public debt burden would be 33 per cent; we need to know that this country will be facing at least 3 times that. Dear lawmakers, can you imagine what would happen if Turkey were caught in a global economic crisis with 10 per cent budget deficits, 90% public debt? Have you ever considered what kind of trauma, what kind of damage it would cause in the economy? Maybe Turkey would spend years trying to recover its economy. Here, on various occasions, the bench has always been stated: "Sir, you have increased Turkey's debt. Turkey's debt increased. Let's look at the figures: the public owed 259 billion dollars, and the number rose to 571 billion as of the second quarter of 2014. There's an increase in quantity, but I think every member of parliament knows how to calculate the debt, how to measure it. Because otherwise, there's no explanation for just the amount of this being declared. Look, we had an 86 billion-dollar debt as a country in 2000 -- because the numbers before 2000 didn't match the EU definition -- I took it from 2000, and it had a 51.5% rate of national income. In 2001, this went up to 189 billion, 78.8 per cent to national income. In 2002, the debt rose to 259 billion, with a national income rate of 73.4%. So, we took over from here, we managed to reduce the government and the debt burden of 74% to 33 percent. Dear lawmakers, when you look at the debt clearly, that $215 billion of public debt will go down to 186 billion in our time. And when you do, you'll see that it's 61% down to 11 percent in our time. In addition, in our debt management, we have managed to reduce the risk of interest both at the risk of foreign exchange and the risk of maturity significantly. Before our rule was always mentioned: In Turkey, public banks would have serious mission damage, and both our citizens and governments would have serious problems -- the damage of public banks -- and due to the fact that they pose a risk on the budget, the country would also have to face higher costs of financing of the budget. The failure to pay for these losses on time, the interference in the economic event, the failure of management, the weakness of the original functions, the lack of credits given by politicians' arbitrary instructions had seriously corrupted the bank's finances, and this decomposition had reached the summit and exploded with the 2001 crisis. Here, valued lawmakers, with the 2001 crisis, I will now explain the cost of this balloon that exploded in both public banks and private sector banks, so that we can really understand what kind of painting is being put on the shoulders of Turkey. See, valued lawmakers, by the end of 2001, the total cost of the public banks, the People's Bank and Agriculture Bank is 25 quadrillion, 25 quadrillion at the time. The height of this mission's losses also severely undermined the bank's capital structure. Do you know the net profit of public banks when it comes to 2013? $6.1 billion. So, for 25 quadrillion damages, only 6.1 billion profits were made in 2013, and when you add the Foundationbank, you see that a profit like $7.5 billion was made by public banks. Dear lawmakers, look, some statistics have just been given here, and I want to give you a statistic: in 2002, the total rate of loans that banks could not pay in pursuit was 11.7% for the Agriculture Bank, which is now 2. As of September 2014, I'm running the numbers. The ratio of the Public Bank was 48.8 per cent, so almost half of the loans he gave were sunk or not paid, which is 3.8 per cent today. It was 24.2 per cent of the foundation, so it was going to be a dollar out of every $4, and it's going to be 4 per cent today, and it's going to be about 3 per cent when you average it. So, the performance of public banks has become a competition with private banks. Look, do you know the sum of the funds the public banks transferred to the Treasury from 2003 to 2013? A total of $30 billion or 30 quadrillion lira was transferred to a treasure, including $14 billion, or an institutional tax. Now, they've come from a loss of 25 quadrillion liras to a transfer of about 30 quadrillion treasures. Dear lawmakers, we wouldn't be discussing Turkey's debt burden today if we didn't have this damage to these public banks at the time and 21 banks transferred to the TMSF. See, the cost of those banks, public banks' mission losses to Turkey today -- the official number of the treasure -- is 525 billion TL. What's Turkey's total debt? 571 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you if the executives, the administrators who caused this, have any qualms? Can those who tolerate this situation be able to put their heads on the pillow? Whose pocket did this 525 billion come out of, who paid for it? So, it's filled with income tax from the miner's salary, 500 meters, 1,000 meters below that miner's salary, and it didn't come from anywhere else, and if those charges hadn't been paid to Turkey that day, we wouldn't be talking about anything today called public debt, and we wouldn't even be talking about the 54 billion-dollar financing cost that we cut today in Turkey's budget. For him, the issue is what happened that day, in terms of the revelation of the situation, which today caused Turkey to have 33 per cent of the debt burden. Still, if we're paying 54 billion interest interest, what happened that day is not because of the AK PARTI authorities. Dear lawmakers, look, from this bench has been spoken several times, and this is also on the website of the main opposition party, where a study has been presented, but the presentation is only as follows: The EC PARTI has used twice the amount of the money used by 42 governments before it in fifty-eight years. The governments before him used $775 billion, the AK PARTI government used 1.5 trillion dollars. You show me the passive balance sheet, but why don't you tell me what's going on with it? (AC PARTY) We do not only compare our work, our services, to one or two governments before us, but we compare all our work, all our services, to the eighty years before us, and that needs to be known. Look, what happened with those resources? There have been double roads in this country, schools, universities have been established, hospitals, infrastructures, fast trains, airlines, bridges, rainbow satellites, justice palaces, dams, dams, SODES projects, GAP, DAPP You'll write that on the other side, then. Dear MPs, there were no proper palaces of justice in our country when we arrived. We're all lawmakers, we've all come to the city at this time, the palaces of justice have come seriously, and there's been serious investments in non-boroughs at this time. These may not be visible, but billions of resources have been transferred here. Look, valuable lawmakers, while we've been creating these services, we've been trying to cover the gaps left before us, we've dealt with their financing. I think these should be known, too. Sir, the second issue is the state's debt, but Turkey's external debt has been greatly reduced. What is Turkey's external debt? 130 billion dollars in 2002, 56.2% in national income. As of the second quarter of 2014, I give you the figures: Turkey's total external debt is 402 billion dollars. What's the national rate of income? 50.4%. So if there's a cost on one side, if there's a loan on the other side, you look at the income rate.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0037par0035	Compared to 2003.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0036	Look, valued lawmakers, the investment of the private sector alone at this time is 1.7 trillion Turkish liras. The Department of Development's data is available on the website, so anyone can have access to it. In the same way, let's look at his net worth. No matter what area you look at, Turkey is not worse than 2002, it is much better off, and even though it has produced so many services, it is in good condition. (EC PARTY and Commission rankings) Our net external debt in 2002 is 38 per cent; in our time, 30 per cent. When you take the public, we're a plus, valuable deputies, because the public has a certain external debt, but there's a serious exchange reserve with it. When you compare them, our country is a plus. And it is also necessary not to underestimate foreign capital, which comes with the establishment of trust and stability in the country. At the time of our power, a foreign foreign source of around $140 billion came directly into our country as an investment. Look, the 80 years before us, they're all $15 billion. So in our time in Turkey, a year's supply has only been available for 80 years. Where there's no trust, where there's no stability, where there's no tomorrow, do foreign capital come in or direct investments come in? He won't come. See, recently, about the 25 transforming programmes -- nine of them have been announced -- our Prime Minister announced the 417 action plan, and there have been positive responses from almost all parts of the economy involved. There were positive responses from universities, business, business, civil society organizations, economic partners. But they asked one of the main opposition party's economies how do you interpret these 25 transformation programmes? The answer is this: What Turkey really needs is not 25 exchange programmes, but a one-point program. What is that? It was the power of the CHP. So I left the one-party out, and I called the authorities where the CHP was on its own. In 1978 and 1979, the Republican People's Party alone is in power. Now, sometimes, our fellow lawmakers from the main opposition party are on my website: either you go twenty or thirty years ago or you go back thirty or forty years ago. Believe me, friends, since 1978 and 1979, you have no power alone. Where should I go? There's only one party period. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I've looked into this period for him, and you've done an economics program for him. I have the relevant texts of the 11th and 12th stand-by agreements. So I thought I'd see what you guys have been up to. Dear lawmakers, let me tell you the rate of inflation in 1978 -- 45 percent inflation in Turkey. See how much support we've given him? It's written to the IMF. It says: "We've given 14 percent support to tobacco. Can you imagine, the CHP, who just lived off a farmer's friend, a peasant's friend, where there was 45 percent inflation, I've given 14 percent of it." Tobacco is one of the most produced agricultural products at the time, and is produced by effort.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0038par0044	Where do you have it?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0045	There's one here. You'll get it from the treasure.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0039par0047	There was tobacco then, no tobacco now.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0048	So, does it end with this? No, it's not over.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0040par0049	What period are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0050	Look, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0041par0051	Please, friends... please, I'm gonna have to ask...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0052	It doesn't end with this. Now, there are teachers who can't be assigned here, sir. 300,000 people are waiting. There are so many officers. I've got people waiting for me from this many trade groups. So I looked at what they did. They say: "We will be restrictive at the point of the staff regime. " Wasn't there a lack of teachers at the time?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0042par0054	No.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0055	There were no police openings, no shortages of officers? There was, there was, but that was your commitment. Dear lawmakers, look, 475,000 teachers were appointed during our time, and more than half of 833,000 teachers total were appointed during this period. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It's not over...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0043par0057	What was the population then, what is the population now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0058	Listen, listen! Guys, listen up!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0044par0059	Please, friends... please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0060	See, the name of the program is the Stability Programme. There are commitments made in 1977. That's exactly what they're saying, they're saying that oil products, cement, iron steel and paper products will increase by 50 to 150 percent. This will increase our income by this much. In 1978, they also do 35 percent more than that. What if it's 27 percent in one inflation, 45 percent in one, 70 percent in the other? What's the average raise these guys make? 130 percent. Who's doing this? Worker's friend is doing the CHP, his working friend. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If anyone denies it, let them take it from the treasure, my friends. You can get it from the treasure. Here are the numbers.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0045par0064	Why don't you come back in the last 12 years...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0065	So, did they end up with this? They didn't finish. Yeah, and they did 23 percent devaluation to this nation, and they did 23 percent devaluation, and they completed 1978. It's a report card. I'm on my way to the report card in 1979...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0046par0066	That's a shame!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0067	Yeah, I'll give it to you, you can read it. I'm coming to the report card in 1979, and I'm opening it. Look what commitments they made...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0047par0069	You answer for your report card.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0070	Who wrote it? Ziya Muezzinoglu. What commitments did they make? Article 6 says: "Inflation is over 50 per cent, we have to take it down." Look, we're going to give the officer a 20 per cent increase in budget law in 1979, but there's 50 per cent inflation up there. Who's the mindset where there's 50 percent inflation and 20 percent increase to the worker? It's you. His fellow workers, CHP, had a run-in.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0048par0072	Please, friends, I'd like to ask...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0073	Look, the precious MPs...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0049par0074	It's the '70s!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0075	Well, you don't have power before that, so where do I go? Are you in power at 90? You've come in the 70s, you've come in a single party period, you have no other power. I said it at first. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, look, we're coming to 1979. There's another 80 to 100 percent increase coming up. Yeah, it's called a stability program, not a raise program.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0050par0078	Come to corruption, to corruption! Come to the appointment of the children of 80 MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0079	You bent people's backs at the raise, cut your ticket, never saw power again. That's why.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0051par0081	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0082	And what I'm most upset about is, what did you want with the poor wheat maker?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0052par0083	Come to corruption! Come to the ministers' appointment! Come to steal!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0053par0084	Listen, Tanal, listen!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0085	You know what they did? We interrupt our support for the wheat, he says.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0054par0086	Mr. Tanal, you're sitting in the front, don't... don't...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0055par0087	Mr. President, let him tell you about the appointment of a friend.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0088	What did you want with a pair of oxen and a poor farmer who planted wheat with a black plow? Is that all you can afford?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0055par0089	CHP had no equal appointment in power, no theft, no bribery.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0090	Can you afford a tobacco farmer, a wheat farmer? That's all you've got.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0055par0091	Look, four ministers didn't go to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0056par0092	Come on, that's not a negotiation.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0093	That's all you could afford.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0056par0094	Don't do it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0036par0095	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0056par0096	If there is, you want a word, and if it is in accordance with the Law, we will consider it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0057par0097	Look, there was no corruption in the rule of the Republican People's Party; there was decency, there was morality.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0056par0098	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0058par0099	Shut up, Tanal, shut up!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0057par0100	Do you have any morals right now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0059par0101	Dear MPs, this is the painting, this is the report card. I'm looking, before that, that's morality.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0060par0102	You'll be talking about this for 12 days from this stand. But that's not the way to talk. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0059par0103	You've seen morality; you've seen the morality they go for the farmer, the morality they go for the officer. These are the commitments.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0061par0104	Talk about morality, talk about justice.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0062par0105	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0061par0106	You'll have to ask me!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0063par0107	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0061par0108	We're against dishonor, we're against corruption...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0064par0109	Well, in 1979...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0065par0110	Sit down, listen!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0066par0111	Please, friends... please... don't.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0064par0112	What else did they do in 1979? Another 30 percent devaluation. Enough, enough, enough with the people! Another 30% devaluation and withdrawal from the government.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0067par0114	Mr. President, we're against corruption, we're against injustice, we're against theft, we're against immorality.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0068par0115	Mr. Tanal, there is no such procedure, my dear, there is no such procedure!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0064par0116	So they withdrew from the government, and their tickets were cut off on that day, and they did not see any power since that day.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0068par0117	You take your word, you come in here and you say whatever you want, but there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0064par0118	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0069par0119	But that's what the government does, that's what power does.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0070par0120	Why don't you shut up?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0071par0121	Don't...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0072par0122	Dear MPs, look, after long periods of time, Turkey's economy, diplomacy, foreign policy, national defence industry, national intelligence, has experienced its most intense sense of nationalism in this period, and the valued MPs have seen this nation's prosperity, stability in this period.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0073par0123	We are not thieves, we are not immoral, we are not dishonest!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0071par0125	Guys, please... Mr. Tanal, come on; look, you're sitting in the front.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0074par0127	These people know exactly who to support.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0075par0128	That's where he's giving me the benefit of the doubt.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0071par0129	Whoever's doing it isn't doing it right.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0075par0130	He's doing it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0071par0131	So do not do it, neither do they, nor shall anyone do it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0075par0132	Then tell him not to throw it away.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0076par0133	Look, I want to give you some more numbers here. Of course, if they read a painting like that, I'd scream, too. Who'd go for a painting like that?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0075par0135	We're against corruption, we're against theft.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0076par0136	See, valuable lawmakers, we just got the growth figures. Growth has to be calculated relatively. I'll give you the annual growth rates in Turkey. Look, between 1950 and 1960 -- I start with multiparty life -- the Menderes era, alone in power. You know what growth is? If the world has grown by 1%, Turkey has grown by 1.5 per cent, so if the world has grown by 6 per cent, Turkey has grown by 9 per cent. Then there was the coup; between 1961 and 1980, when the world grew to 1, Turkey grew to 1, which means Turkey could not rise above the growth of the world. Then there's a period of power between 1983 and 1991 alone, the Homeland Party period, the Autonomous era. The growth rate is rising here again, and if the world has grown by 1%, Turkey has grown by 1.5 per cent at that time, which is more than 1.5. Then there's 1991-2002. Look, valuable lawmakers, if the world here has grown by 1%, Turkey has grown by 1.2 percent. Then we came to power. Look what happened at that time...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0077par0138	Yeah, I'll give you an extension, and you're out of time. Please complete your speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0076par0139	Look, dear lawmakers, what happened back then? When the world grew by 1 percent, we grew by 1.9 percent. That's how you calculate growth. What has the world grown, what have we grown? So if the world has grown by 5%, we've grown by 10%. That's how you calculate growth. Dear lawmakers, for him, Turkey, because of the taste of power on its own, the times that I've just expressed to you are all coalition periods, we've always been behind, we've always lost time. That's why I just said it at the beginning of my speech, and hopefully we'll make our 21st budget in 2023 and give it to our nation. Now, dear MPs, we can understand why the late Menderes, the late Ozal, this nation, has been blessed, can't we? Do we not understand why you have embraced Erdogan and Ahmet Davutoglu? (EC PARTY) Because at this time prosperity has been relative to citizens, to nationals, and at this time, the nation has felt greater prosperity with all its care.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0078par0142	Relatively
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0076par0143	Actually, there were a few other issues, and I'm not going to go in because I can't give them enough time. So, with these feelings and thoughts, I wish our 2015 budget to be good, and I salute the general council and the nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0079par0146	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0080par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0079par0148	Mr. Honey, here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0080par0149	During his speech, Mr. Orator gave incomplete and false information about bank losses and bankrupt banks during the 57th government period, while I was Minister. To fix this, I'd like to promise to pick on you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0079par0150	Okay, here you go. Let's not afford a new pick-up or an answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement. These budget negotiations are the final budget talks of the 24th term. This Parliament will not negotiate the budget again, but the 25th term will. I'm asking you, please, let's make these negotiations by leaving them to be pleasant. We'll meet tomorrow on the street, on the street, somewhere else, so please, without hurting each other, without hurting each other, let's have an elegant discussion, at least with a model budget discussion, and I'm asking everyone to do it. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0081par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. As you say, budget talks are the most serious, responsible talks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Here you talk about the right things and some thoughts are expressed in terms of the future. There's no point in going back and laundering the future like a mufli merchant. The speaker, who spoke earlier, gave a number of figures in the 57th government on the bank's mission losses, a lie wrong, incomplete, hinted that it belonged to our administration. This is fundamentally wrong because the corruption and bank embezzlement of those crises in the 1990s resulted in heavy economic, political crises, and the corruption and bank embezzlement of those crises, and in 1997 the Banking Law was cancelled by the Constitutional Court, and in the end, the middle con artist, conmanent, cheater, citizen's savings, was already empty inside the banks when our government came to power. The first thing the 57th government did was solve this serious problem by removing the Banking Control and Editing Law in June 1999. So, while I was waiting for him to deliver this right, I was surprised that he would give a speech that was looking for political gain from this place. On the other hand, he said the same thing about the banks that went down. The job is the 57th government that purges its losses. Previously, in the 90s, it was the 57th government that purged the damage to the banks of tobacco, cotton, grain, and the creation of some public resources. He never mentioned the creation of subsidiary banks with a $700m loan from the Agriculture Bank, as well as a message to the future, as well as an account to be given. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With the construction work...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0082par0162	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0081par0163	It's over, sir. Building jobs, building contractors, building pools, collecting money from these pools, businessmen, and other corruptions.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0082par0165	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0083par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0082par0167	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0083par0168	Sir, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the speaker has given the facts contrary to the fact that while considering the years when the Republican People's Party was in power and the speech of our President-General, the figures he gave in his speech and the figures of the Republican People's Party during the reign of 1978-79. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0082par0169	Here you go, two minutes. Please, I repeat my request for you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0083par0172	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, budget talks need to discuss numbers. Numbers also need to be based on reliable information, government reports, statistics. I regret to inform you of the numbers used by the speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Because he took only one text and read it from a place where he was given a text. I wish he could control that text. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] He gave an example of tobacco in 1978-79. Dear lawmakers, tobacco producers, agricultural producers, producers, have lived in the golden age of the late Bhent Ecevit, in 1978-79. There was tobacco in Turkey at the time, and now there's no tobacco, thanks to you. The second compared Turkey's growth figures. Yes, Mr. Mush, you can't cross the growth numbers -- the 2015 program published by the State Planning Agency -- I'm going to take it from here; I'm going to use the numbers of the State Planning Agency, the Ministry of Development now -- compared to the growth of Turkey with the world. You can't cross the growth numbers with a round word called, detailed program, why don't you use the detail? The 2003-2014 period -- your period of power -- is 4.8 per cent of Turkey's growth. What are the developing countries that we're competing for? 6.3%. You're behind. What have African countries grown, sub-Saharan African countries? Five and a half percent. We're behind Africa. Is that the growth you're bragging about?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0084par0176	Germany...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0083par0177	Middle East and North Africa countries -- countries we don't like the Middle East, countries we don't like -- have grown by 5%. Turkey has failed in growth during your time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0085par0180	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0086par0182	Here, he told me that I was lying wrong and that I was handed a piece of paper, Your Honor. I'd like to explain to them where I got the information I gave them here. I've got a pick-me-up here.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0085par0183	Now, Mr. Mush, I'd be happy to give it to you. It's not a matter of a minute or two, but we have another speaker on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. If there's any need to be made clear, he can also bring our friend. If you'll excuse me, we'll listen to him first, and if it's necessary, I promise you again, if it doesn't open up.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0086par0184	Because it's about me.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0085par0185	Yes, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0087par0186	Mr. President, you've only been handed paper.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0086par0187	Lying to myself is wrong...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0088par0188	But he was handed over. He said.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0089par0189	Okay, I'll give it to you, let's hear the other one. We have the authority to be in the same union, I promise you. The second speaker is Mr. Surayya Bilgicç, Isparta MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0198	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the general budget of central management of 2015, which is the 13th budget of the EC PARTI administration. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin by thanking all of our ministers, our Plan and Budget Commission members, our deputies, the President of the Budget, the bureaucrats of our ministries, who run the budget. Dear friends, before I go into my assessments of the budget, I'd like to briefly mention what Parliament has done to strengthen the budget and the use of this right to the EC PARTY. As you know, budgetary rights are the cause of parliaments. Parliament makes it possible for public services to be run and government policies to be implemented by authorising and authorising public revenues and expenses by means of annual budgets. On the other hand, Parliament also supervises how this authority is used. In summation, Parliament has used its budget rights in order to ensure that this authority is used properly during the year and at the end of the year. The budget is one of the key tools the state uses to regulate economic and social life. The 2015 budget we are talking about envisions spending 472 billion dollars and 913 million liras. This amount corresponds to 24.3 per cent of the annual revenue of 1 trillion 945 billion dollars for 2015. This table reveals the importance of Parliament's role in the budget process and its budgetary rights. A public financial management and control system that operates effectively and transparently in terms of effective use of budget rights is of great importance. When we came to power, one of the first jobs we did was to establish a public financial management and control system in accordance with Parliament's budgetary rights. Public financial management is one of the most important policies in ensuring economic and political stability. In this understanding, many developed countries have reformed public financial management systems since the 1990s. One of the main elements of these reforms was strengthening the role of parliaments to ensure more efficient and efficient use of resources, auditing, transparency and accountability. In this scope, we also obtained the Law on Public Financial Management and Control Law 5018, which changed the structure and functioning of the public financial administration and was put into practice in 2006; again, in 2010, the Law on the Court of 6085, in order to ensure public administration transparency and accountability, efficiency, efficiency, efficiency, activity and frugality. Law 5018 is the result of the need for strategic government planning, performance-based budgeting, medium-term spending system and fiscal transparency and accountability principles, due to the lack of the necessary connections between development plans and budgets, systemlessness and cuts in public spending. Law 5018 and budget integrity have been established and its scope has been extended, a tight bond between policies and budgets, a healthy accountability mechanism has been established, a balance of authority-responsibility in the spending process has been restored, and an active domestic financial control system has been established and a public accounting union has been established. Again, important arrangements have been made in our term so that no spending will be unsupervised -- which I will soon elaborate -- as of today, the number of non-budget funds has been reduced to four. The complement of the system created by Law 5018 and the fundamental law, which reveals all aspects of external control, are the Law of the Court of Law 6085. With this law, the Court's control area has been expanded, and all institutions and institutions using public resources are under the Court's supervision, and therefore under Parliament's supervision. Opposition speakers say the Court does not control. Dear friends, that's not true. The Court has audited 25 million accounts, all these audits have been made and reported. In the state accounting system, the institutional-based balance sheet was not created because the financial tables were not produced, which was taken into account at a meeting of the State Accounting Standards Board, where these paintings could not be produced by a single Treasury painting, and was ruled by a single painting on April 3, 2013. And under the decision of this board is the signature of the representative of the Court. On the one hand, the Court signs the decision made by the State Accounting Standards Board, leaving aside the argument that these paintings can't be produced, stating that there is no control over the financial tables on the subject. There's nothing acceptable about it. The expression that this inspection was not conducted today is nothing more than vanity, a statement that the Court did not control. The Court of Finance has completed its work and has since 1 January 2015, these institutional-based tables have been produced, even though the Court has issued a regulation on how these financial paintings could not be profited in 2013, 2014 and 2015, after 2015, after its final account. Once again, when we look at the speech of opposition speakers, they say that all these spendings have gone beyond the control of the Court. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to say that the authority to spend above-payment is a mandate given to the Ministry under budget law. Thus, all overpaid expenses are carried out in accordance with the law, under the authority vested in the Ministry of the Law and subject to the Court's supervision. After all these expenses have been made, lists are sent to the Court within the year, and all the details are included in certain accounts. When you look at the final accounts of 2013, you will see in detail exactly where these above-refund expenditures were made. For him, to open such an argument, there's a $945 million start-up grant, but a $35 billion job is overfunded... Dear friends, these are all interagency transitions.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0091par0214	It's against the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0215	Only $6 billion, look, only $6 billion of this number is due to changes in the Agency's law. For example, some of the jobs that the Ministry of Social Security has written down have been transferred to the Ministry of Family Social Policy, so the staff costs there have been moved there. Ten billion liras of this have been taken in exactly the same way for investment funds, which have been spent. A billion 205 million liras were also spent in disaster. Mr. Kusoglu, you know all this very well, but why do you pretend you don't know it, and I really want to say that I have a hard time understanding it from time to time. We also call it transparency, transparency and accountability. What have we done here? Look, let me just say that Law 5018 and Parliament's budget rights have been strengthened. What did we do? One, the scope of the budget law has been expanded. The scope of the exact account law has been expanded. The budget law has been simplified. Private grant, private income application is restricted. Treasure guarantees and loans are bordered by budget law. Financial transparency has been increased. Reports sent to parliament have been greatly expanded and their numbers have been increased. Other regulations that increase transparency in public administration are the Information Act, the Law on the Ethics Board of Public Servants and the Law on Public Control that took effect in 2012. In this sense, despite all the regulations that the AK PARTI authorities have made in terms of control, transparency and accountability, the fact that they're still being accused by the opposition as if they're running away from an audit has really nothing to do with people, and there's nothing acceptable about them.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0092par0219	Which one is it?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0220	I want to talk about developments in transparency. See, from 2006, for the first time in the history of the republic, local administrations have begun to share budget statistics with the public. It has been regularly shared with the public, including financial statistics, social security institutions and local administrations, published only for central management. In addition to the budget results of public administrations, the basic financial tables, such as the balance sheet, which provides information on assets, obligations and cash flow, have been regularly published on a financial basis in Finance. The financial statistics of public institutions' social facilities are regularly given. We can replicate them, but since time is limited, I don't want to talk about it anymore. But here is the deck detail of the 2013 grant surplus spending, and the authority here is in the Finance Ministry to transfer it to auxiliary grants with Article 5/2 of the 2013 budget law, and to subsidize it to a subsidiary grant, including the employee grant under Article 6/1-a. And you know very well that with the planning budget commission for the 2015 budget, we now have the ability to transfer these funds between institutions without drawing them into the Treasury's back-up, which we have made in the 6th amendment. Mr. President, good lawmakers, structural reforms during our administration are not limited to these. With the other structural reforms we've implemented, we've been aiming to reduce energy dependency, boost competitiveness, improve business and investment environment, increase private savings rates and improve the quality of financing. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, we continued the reform process, which began with the independence of the Central Bank and the establishment of the upper boards, with important reforms that involved public financial management, social security system, local governments and the real and financial sector during our governments. With the reforms we've done in the social security system, we've combined social security institutions under one roof. We have all our citizens covered in social security and general health insurance. In order to transfer more resources and powers to local governments, we thus passed the laws of municipal, urban municipality, municipal private administration and local governments to be presented more efficiently and effectively at the location of services. In the financial sector, in 2005, we adopted the new Banking Law, the Capital Market Law and Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act, and the Individual Retirement Law. Thus, the efficiency of the financial markets has been increased. We did education reform. We've extended the mandatory training period from eight to twelve years. During the same period, the number of public universities increased to 104. The total number of universities was increased to 176. The reforms also provided significant improvements in competitiveness, investment climate, and international indicators of institutional infrastructure. In the annual Global Competition Index of the World Economic Forum, Turkey rose 26 steps in nine years, but how did it rise? It was ranked 71st among 117 countries in 2005, and was ranked 45th among 144 countries today. And I don't want to go past this, folks, if you'll excuse me, when you look at these private sector investments between 1992 and 2002, when you take the year 1992 as a 100-real investment, it's down from 1992 to 2002 in a ten-year period of 95. When you take the beginning of our beginning date, the beginning of our power, the year 2002, on the basis of 100, we see that as of today's end of 2012, this number rose to 54 percent. This came out as a result of total trust and stability, and when you look at the numbers, the total total foreign investment that came directly to Turkey from 1980 to 2002 was only $145.1 billion in our power period, when it was only $145.1 billion in 12 years.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0093par0227	Transfers, transfers?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0228	Dear lawmakers have also been supported by policies on public finance and tax burden reductions and employment and investments. The total tax load average of OECD was 34.5 per cent, while Turkey was 27.7 per cent. Tax incentives supported savings, RD, investments and employment measures have been taken to reduce the current deficit. A 25 per cent state contribution has been brought into individual retirement. In addition to this practice, which began in 2013, the individual pension system's funding amounted to $25.1 billion, and the number of participants here has increased to 4 million 153,000. In the first nine months of 2014 alone, 685 thousand new participants entered the system. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, I'd like to now make some assessments of our budget for 2015 and our investments and achievements during our 12 years of power: the budget of 2015, which is the 13th budget of the EC PARTY, is a budget based on social justice, economic growth, development of our country, health and prosperity of our nation. This is a budget that, with the awareness that our children and our young people are the future of our country, this year as well as in the last few years, has divided the lion's share of the amount of 87 billion dollars into education, giving our citizens 80.9 billion dollars to spend on health care to improve the quality of healthy living. It is a budget with direct and indirect support for 13 billion, which gives our farmer the right to the strategic importance of agriculture. This budget is an expression of gratitude to the nation of a nation, a party that takes power from the nation, and its governments. In fact, because our policies are based on the will of the nation, because they are meant to ensure the happiness, peace, and prosperity of our nation, thank God for that, our nation has increased its gratitude to us every day because we have taken an important distance through our twelve years of power. This budget, contrary to what is alleged, is a budget of service focused, nation-focused, as one of the milestones in carrying out the 2023 goals that our governments have declared, regardless of any election concerns, without compromise from fiscal discipline. It is a budget that will contribute to the construction of a strong new Turkey on the solid foundations of our power, to the rise of our people's prosperity. Mr. President, in terms of national income and growth, our country has done a very good economic performance in the last 12 years, despite all the problems in the world and in our region. In 12 years, political stability has been achieved, public financial balances have been made very strong. In 2002, our national income, $230 billion, increased nearly 4 times, raising to $822 billion by the end of 2013. In this period, national income per person has increased more than three times more than 2002. Between 1990 and 2002, we have to turn around and take a look. In 1990, the national income, which is 200 billion dollars in 1990, was only moved to $230 billion 12 years later in 2002, but when it comes to 2013, my dear friends, we see that the national income, $230 billion, has increased by about four times, reaching $822 billion. And again, it comes as a result of trust and stability.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0094par0234	What happened with the fixed prices?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0235	The banking sector, which produced crises in the past, has become an exemplary industry in the world following reforms. In addition, interest spending has been cut down on the budget and has been increased in investments. In 2002, 43.2 per cent of the budget was earmarked for interest spending, and in 2014, it was 11.9 per cent, my dear friends. Thus, Turkey's economy has become resistant, resistant to external shocks with its strong public finances and banking sector. The Turkish economy grew 4.1 per cent in 2013, despite its negative conjuncturality. In 2014, it was estimated that there would be 3.3 per cent growth in Iraq, Syria, Russia, Ukraine, and the EU economy, although it was not at the desired level of geopolitical risks. After the growth rate in the last third quarter, which has been announced today, it can be revised, perhaps at a very low rate, but it will be seen by all of us in absolute terms, however, when you compare it with the world's overall ratio. The indicators, such as exports, industrial production index and capacity tool, show that our country is still growing. Despite problems in the global economy and problems in the Middle East, Turkey is expected to grow by 4 per cent in 2015. Five per cent growth is envisioned for 2016 and 2017. According to employment figures, our country is clearly more successful than the EU and OECD countries. Work in the eurozone after the global crisis has decreased by 3.2 per cent. In the OECD regions, while in their countries, this has only increased 2.3 per cent, while Turkey has increased 28.3 per cent and has been employing 5.7 million people in the process. In the past five years, participation in the labour force has increased from 45.7% to 51.3 per cent, while employment rate has increased from 39.8 per cent to 46.3%. At the same time, there were about 3.6 million jobs lost in the eurozone. Despite a strong job performance, the unemployment rate stands at 9-10 per cent, due to structural problems in the labour market. The National Employment Strategy was adopted to find a permanent solution to the unemployment problem. To address the structural problems of the labour market, students' internship opportunities have been increased and have been contacted by active labour market programmes in the business world. The unemployed have been given professional experience and work discipline. The number of users of active labour market programmes increased to 220,000 in 2013, with 23,000 in 2007. The bonus for employers since 2004 has been around 41 billion liras to lighten their labour loads and increase employment. These incentives are covered by an average of 1.5 million businesses per month and over 10 million insured. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most important achievements of our governments is to fight inflation. Unfortunately, our citizens had been forced to live with high inflation for many years before us. As a matter of fact, many of us have suffered the devastating effects. The cost of the unstable and fragile economy has been imposed on citizens. For years, the heavy bill of the poorly-run economy was made to pay the citizens. However, the citizen was able to find his own way out of the 2002 election by bringing the EC PARTY to power. In 2014, significant improvements were also recorded in the current open. At the end of 2013, the current was $65.1 billion, reduced to $48.5 billion in 12 months, as of July 2014. Apart from energy, the balance has increased from 15.9 billion deficits to $1.4 billion. Similarly, in the same period of 2013, $4.1 billion was cut aside, except for gold and energy, and as of July 2014, $5 billion was extra by 12 months. For the first time this year, by increasing exports and narrowing imports, we have reduced the current deficit to export based on exports. Cari, a total of $16.5 billion down in the open has been paid $9.2 billion in net exports and $6.2 billion in imports without shrinking. Our exports, due to 36 billion dollars in 2002, reached a volume of 158 billion dollars as of September 2014, due to strong and stable economic growth. The foreign trade deficit showed a 20% reduction in January-August 2014 compared to the previous year. In the second quarter of 2013, exports, which were 60.3 per cent of the imports, increased to 64.6 per cent on a 12-month basis, as of August, when imports narrowed and exports increased in 2014. Turkey's sensitivity to risks in export markets has been reduced due to products and efforts to diversify the country. The diversification of exports in the regional and sectoral composition also points out that Turkey's export potential will be strong in the coming hours, given the projections of growth of target markets in the medium and long term. The banking sector also maintained its strong and stable position in 2014. The rate of transformation of loans has remained at a very low level, as well as the overall credit increases in favour of commercial loans have contributed greatly to the development of financial stability. Mr. President, most EU member states cannot succeed in meeting the Maastricht Critters, but Turkey meets those criteria for both budget balance and debt stock. In terms of Maastricht Criterians, we see that the GDP should not exceed 3 per cent of the budget deficit is 1.2 per 2013, thanks to successful financial policies in our country. In 2014, the budget deficit is expected to be 1.4 per cent. Resolved public debt management policies and commitment to providing financial discipline have also been positively reflected in debt indicators. In this framework, the GDP of EU-defined general management debt, which was 74 per cent in 2002, was down to 33.1 per cent in 2014. The ratio is well below the European average, which is 60 percent of Maastricht Criteria and 96.4%. Public debt management policies supported the firm stance of Turkey's economy in 2014, as in previous years. In the first eight months of 2014, the public debt burden continued to decrease, the real cost of debt was at low levels, the average supply of debt was extended, and the share of interest and currency-sensitive debt was reduced within the debt stock. We can also consider all of these improvements as a reflection of our relations with international institutions. Of course, when we look at the relations with the IMF, which we care deeply about as a country, our country's debt obligation to the IMF was terminated from stand-by agreements and regulations, as the last major payment was made on 14 May 2013. In addition, our country will be represented at the level of executive directorship, for the first time in the administration of the IMF (November 1st). By the time we came to power, our country was in a position to take over the IMF gates, and now, thankfully, it is the hand that gives. As we have paid off our debts to the IMF, we are in many of the world's helpless countries. The amount of humanitarian aid that Turkey has done has also drawn close to $2 billion in total. In this area, Turkey has been the world leader. On the other hand, the G20 term presidency has been assumed by our country since 1 December 2014. My dear friends, time is running out, but one of the most important things is that, in 12 years, public investment has been made, including local governments. In 2014, public investments were earmarked 75.7 billion liras. Public investments have also reached 4.1 per cent in national revenue. Yes, dear friends, I'd like to share with you a few information about the Presidential Service Building, which has often been expressed in talks with the Plan and Budget Commission and began budget talks today, as well as again at the General Assembly. My dear friends, there are three separate cases. One of them is the cancellation of the administrative process of natural and historical status. It's a court-martial. There is no decision here to stop any kind of execution. On the contrary, Court 14. And his apartment has stopped the decision to stop running. The second case, the case against the cancellation of the building's license, Ankara 5. He's at the Supreme Court. There is no decision here to stop the execution in any way. The third case is about zoning plans, again 5. It's a case about a cease-and-desist decision at the Supreme Court. Yeah, we've got a restraining order here. However, this decision is in the 14th District. His apartment lacks legal grounds because of his decision that it does not have historical status. In short, there is no court order that prevents the construction of the Presidential Service Building. The building was built in accordance with the law. All criticism that the Presidential Service Building is a fugitive is baseless and unfair. Just ten or fifteen days ago, construction licenses and building permits were issued here, and our friends who asked for them were shared in the General Assembly. But beyond that...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0095par0255	Isn't Bekir Bozdağ telling the truth?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0090par0256	...this government...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0096par0258	Wise guy, do you believe that or do you believe what he's saying?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0097par0259	Please, friends, please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0098par0260	Ask Bekir Bey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0097par0261	It will be answered. You're getting a say in this. Let him speak his mind.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0262	There's nothing more natural than a building like this to be dedicated to the presidential office, which is the highest representation. Everyone will use this building during their term of duty, and when his term of duty is over, and when his term of duty is complete, he will make the transfer of the building to serve the next President here; he will not be able to take it home.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0100par0264	He better take her with him!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0097par0265	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0266	Therefore, in all budget talks, you have no opportunity to criticize all reforms in the 12-year EC PARTI administration by taking refuge in the back of a Presidential Service Building, which I would like to express.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0101par0268	We're going to ask your permission?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0269	This is a big mistake, this is a big mistake.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0102par0270	It's infractional, zoning!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0271	Dear friends, as in the past years, the highest share of the 2015 budget has been earmarked for education, which means investing in our country's future and in its human capital. This amount, which was 10 billion dollars in 2002, is estimated to be 87.5 billion dollars in 2015, up 775 per cent in 2015. The amount of education received from the budget in 2002 was 9.4 per cent, while the share reached 18.5 per cent in 2015. Dear friends, one of the most essential priorities of our power is to provide easy and quality health care for healthy society and healthy generations. Our health services and achievements are undoubtedly at the top of our nation's most appreciated subjects. For this, in 2015, health care was earmarked for 80.9 billion euros. My dear friends, look, as a result of the Health Transformation Programme, in 2003, health care services, 39.5%, reached 74.7 percent in 2013.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0103par0274	The ones from the cell, the ones from the cell...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0275	Yeah, it's another sector where we make our nation's dreams come true and we're proud of it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0104par0277	Your Honor, I'll give you an extension, please complete your speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0278	Thank you, Mr. President. During the time of our governments, very important investments were made in transportation. We introduced our nation to the fast train, we equipped our country with double road networks. Hopefully, the double route to Isparta will be made between Antalya as soon as possible. In 1882, the governor of Sivas, Halil Rifat Pasha, who had done it, was used by our highways as a charter, and you all know that it is not your place to go. Thank God we can't go to this country in Turkey, and we're going in double roads. As of late September 2014, we added 17400km of divided roads to the multi-tape land network, which we took over as 6,101 km, and we increased that length to 23.522km. You know the fast train, Ankara-Eskişehir-Istanbul, Ankara-Konya, these are in service. And now Antalya, Izmir, Bursa projects are coming into play. Construction of the Ankara-Sivas high-speed train line is currently under way. Kars-Tiflis-Baku railway construction continues quickly. The Marmaray Project, which connects Asia and Europe with iron under the sea, has also been implemented. Construction of the 95km road at the North Marmara Highway Project continues rapidly. Dear friends, I'm out of time. In fact, this is not really enough time at the point where the EC PARTY has delivered services to you, but let me just say that the number of projects that can only be done by the DSI during the period of the government from 1999 to 2002 is 9. In our 12-year period, that number has increased to 2,200, my dear friends. This is important data, and I'd like to share it with you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0105par0284	Where? Give me their stats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0099par0285	Once again, I wish our budget would be a blessing for our nation and our country, and I salute your high council and the great nation.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0106par0287	Thank you, wise guy. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the President and Osmaniye MP Mr. State Gardenli belong. Here you go, Mr. Gardenie.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0107par0291	Mr. President, we're here to discuss the Final Account Bill of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill, along with the valued MPs, the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. To this end, I stand before you to share the nationalist Action Party's thoughts and opinions on both the budget and Turkey's main agenda. Before we enter the main chapter of my speech, I salute my fellow citizens and members of the Veteran Assembly, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens, on behalf of myself and my party group. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been ruled by power alone, with a large parliamentary majority for more than 12 years. The 2015 Centre Management Budget Law Bill, which we are currently discussing, is the 13th draftment of the AKP. In 12 years, 13 budgets have been made, but the result has not changed, social and economic goals have not yielded hope. The credibility and sincerity of the budgets will not be achieved by numbers, by proportions, by obscure words. What's really important here is the position and capacity of the political will in the background of the budget. The budget is condemned to regularity after it does not reflect seriousness, does not have vision, does not have a scalpel to socioeconomic issues. Above all, the budget must grasp social facts, answer our people's needs and expectations. In a more accurate way, it should hold a mirror to Turkey's capillaries, Turkish nation's longings and problems. However, the budgets that have been budgeted so far have not been developed to draw a social and economic horizon, a deep measure that will make our people smile. The spin of the state wheel is evident that the budget, which is a vital function for economic gears, does not monitor the most difficult communities in distribution and division of resources. For our narrow and medium-income citizens, for example, the power mentality, which has been a trick to hand out coal and pasta, when it comes to its own close and advocacy, the lion has made its share of the lion's share, with no difficulty at all. I have no doubt that every friend who is present here questioned this injustice, this contradiction, on his own conscience. The moral compass of an economic system that sharpens inequality has been corrupted. The arguments and ideals of an economic and social structure dominated by injustice have rotted. Incremental income, wealth and inequality of opportunity can be said in particular by the 2008 global crisis. If economic policies do not emphasise morality and justice, if they do not touch equality and freedom, if they do not contain national and spiritual features, the problem is greater if they rely solely on the invisible hand metaphor. The main problem that eats at our social tissue and economic structure is increasing inequality. They are members of the same society that eat much, consume much, eat much, eat much, and never consume at all, and are side by side like fire and gunpowder. This unconscionable distribution and imbalance are neither in harmony with our beliefs nor our humanity. The success of an economy is judged only by improving people's living standards. The middle class, which has been the garant of democracy for a long time, is shrinking due to the economic dilemmas. The problem, which will be very difficult to digest, is Turkey's bottom-up bottom-heavy bottom wave. In dealing with inequality and injustice, reining up the upper income, strengthening the middle, and helping the lower social groups should be essential. This requires consistent, well-projected programs. You know, there are two ways to get rich. It's either to make a fortune or to seize other people's wealth. Since production is failing in Turkey today, it is impossible for wealth to grow legitimately and naturally. Those who get rich, turn the corner, fill their pockets and cubes, only need to look at the monstrosities that were deciphered on December 17th and 25th to see how they got there. Turkey, which lost the highest points in the Transparency International's 2014 Corruption Perception Index, fell 11 digits and ranked 64th among the 175 countries. So the coup didn't keep its promises, it didn't pay attention to its parallel thesis. Besides, the gap in income distribution, our national identity, our national unity, is hanging like a poison dagger on our national presence. One of the two most important factors that corrode the national reflexes of the Turkish nation, the large and main body, is the perception operations organised together by poverty, the government and the separatist environments. The political and economic tide will further trigger spiritual and emotional breakouts, and national feelings will be severely broken and bleeding. At this rate, Turkey's current state-of-the-art and summary will be searched for wax. The loss of labour in the face of increasing capital gains, the interruption of the sweat of the forehead, the real reduction of wages, wages, and revenues, also brings great poverty. In one way, the loss of sub-income groups means that they fall into the trap of poverty, in a more accurate way. A country whose democracy has been blocked and its social balance and harmony has yet to reach the level of economic growth and development to be praised. In an environment where cooperation and trust are severely damaged, economic power and recovery are near impossible at a time when security and anxiety for the future increase. No matter how well you budget it, no matter how bright you set goals, your sheep, if peace and quiet are losing altitude, if Beka and his will to live together are struggling with risks, fancy words will not make sense. Again, regardless of the parameters and paradigm of the budget, while Recep of Ermenek wears rubber shoes, the other side will not touch any citizen except a small minority of the budget if the resources are being transferred to boxes, palaces, airplanes, luxury and waste. It's a sad fact that we all have to feel guilty about. It's a terrible and devastating trauma when we use the authority of sovereignty to fund corruption, bribes, illicit whims, while our beloved nation consumes life in the grip of unemployment, despair, poverty, poverty. My dear friends, please tell me, shouldn't we all respect the rights of millions who cook in pots and eat on the cover? What do we call the cry of millions living on a minimum wage of $891, according to Turkish-history data, in November, when the hunger limit of a family of four is $1,225 and the poverty limit is $3,990? What excuses are we going to make to an army of unemployed people over five and a half million, one of our four unemployed teenagers? I'm sorry, we were dealing with a dark palace with 1,150 rooms. We were choosing gold glasses, priceless carpets. It's almost evening for you. Are we going to call you that? Those of you who wish to face history, be my guest, first thinking of our nation's pathetic state. Those who spend their time in the disaster of abuse should be troubled by the trouble of our farmer, our officer, our tradesman, our laborer, our pensioner. It is unfair, rather than in the interest of the nation, that the budget should be presented to the use and use of young despots who long for the sultanhood of privileged environments -- frankly, I'm telling you -- it's unfair, it's cruel. In this day's picture of the country where the gains are admired, the devouring of the forbidden, the real agenda is being raised by the mechanism of lying and deception. The misery of our citizens is covered by numbers and account games. If we fall for the Prime Minister's memorised remarks, the world is in recession and economic slowdown, while our country is marked by stability as an island of stability. I assure you, if there had been a view of Turkey as suggested, we'd be more happy than anyone, more hopeful than anyone. But the spear doesn't fit in the sack, the imagination doesn't feed. The worst nightmare of a lying, lying power is the revelation of the truth and the screaming. The central management budget for 2015 has been explained in the shadow of disasters such as low growth, inflation, debt, business open, unemployment. Chronic problems in the economy have covered the budget like a lethal uur, and this budget has found only one aspect of government's predictive economic policies as a mediocrity, only one part. The budget is also a legal and political document in which economic, political and social responsibility is carried out simultaneously as one of the political control tools of the Turkish Grand National Assembly over the government. However, this document is in the square as planned for the financing of the waste, much less a child's toy. The budget is open to poolers, closed to our citizens. The budget is far from inviting, victims, and oppressed those who bring ships to the sea continuously. The budget, Ranta, interest, exploitation, desperation, robbery is foreign to the supply of services, livelihood and property, and, frankly, the economic goals envisioned in the budget do not match our nation's expectations and demands, in addition to the real state of the economy. In this scope, I'd like to make it clear that the esteemed members of our council group will be able to make a detailed assessment of the budget when it comes to it, to share our proposals, criticisms, and ideas with you and our nation. Reverend lawmakers, the biggest problem in our history of politics is that politicians, who are responsible for understanding each other, listening to each other, dealing with reconciliation and dialogue, have spent their power on destroying each other. Look at the turbulent atmosphere of the Legacy Assembly, and you'll see this; look at the multiparty political process after 1946, and you'll notice that. Politics has a purpose, and to minimize social division, the idea of conflict, must be to reduce it to minimal levels. In the 1930s, a German political theorist, who found its meaning in the 1930s, led to cataclysms rather than disasters by feeding on authoritarian and insufferable ambitions. Humanity has been driven uncontrollably by the flood of hatred and anger that flourished with the falsely formulated political channel, the breath of dictators. A vortex like this has a heavy bill, and the result has been disastrous. Disgrace in politics, insult in place of vision, trouble instead of rhetoric, cooperation dynamics will not be able to hold their backs, they will not be able to function, as long as the separatist language prevails instead of unity. It's our imagination that a political concept that has surrendered to polarization, a political rhetoric that has been exposed to an epidemic of hatred and hypocrisy, can produce value for the benefit of the nation. One of the two main features of politics is the struggle to influence collective life, and it will only come to meaning with a project-based view, with the guidance of the ability to read the future from today. In this framework, another prime quality of politics is the crystallisation of power relations. A process that will eventually overcome the fabrication of truth, and justice will prevail over prejudices. There's no way to make a living without an idea of politics other than a fight. It's almost a fitting end for a foolish, unequivocal and unconscionable politician to swallow the peace of secular politics, to trample on national dignity and memories. It's primitive for politics, whose heart and mentality are surrounded by fences, to put politics only in the chest, only in the amount of votes it receives. If we're going to accept politics as a permanent part of the human condition -- which is true -- we have to prevent it from fueling virtual conflicts. We have to see that creating hostility with words that are blind and gangrene, turning people against each other, there's no end and there's no dignity, and that's going to speed up terrible developments. In the presence of all of you, I would like to point out that any power that binds its back to polarization is doomed to lose. Any government that corrupts, contradicts the truth, goes astray, builds a wall between morality, is bound to answer. In the event of a continuation of a power that will not make the days to come any different than the night, an era of ignorance will break out. Every member of parliament should object, regardless of its political heritage, world opinion, ideological connection, whatever its source of thought that he has found himself. If we believe in democracy, if we are faithfully committed to Turkey's future, we have no choice. Any friend of mine who's proudly served under this blessed roof won't, of course, say he's come and gone like this, and he won't even think about it. The exemplary pages of history say that any unrestricted power, every mortal who has never met morality, law, has once taken possession of a conjunctural opportunity has been misused. The concept of the famous phytrate shows itself here, however painful it may be. What makes democracy possible is the human and political structure of justice as much as it refers to the common good. As this structure is molded, democracy will fall into the hands of demagogues as it closes down and attacks, and it will be transformed into puppets by oligarchy mentalitys. It's true that there can't be a limit to intelligence, but if passion isn't provoked, betrayal and denial aren't prevented, the catastrophes will be delivered to all of us for 77 million, not the light of light, but a fiery and disastrous fire. Anyone who has caused Turkey to get caught between a deep and a deep part of itself is carrying wood in this fire with verbs and actions. Any friend of mine with an honest and decent disposition will take that to heart. It's open to agreements, the locks of perceptions aren't closed, intent and employment are clean, and every member of parliament will consider my thoughts in a multidimensional way. I've noticed that for a long time, there have been blocs and piles around the concept of solutions. Those who call it solutions and those who call it solutions are naturally piled up on two separate ends, positioned mutually. The ruling and separatist environments that are memorised are incapable of knowingly or blinding their minds to see us being dragged to the bottom. God forgive me, but first you have to talk about the problem, what's the problem, to talk about the concept of the divine commandment, as if it had been rubbed out of Alaatin's magic lamp. The problem, by definition, is the situation and the problem that needs to be researched, thought and resolved and reached a conclusion. The solution is the conclusion of a problem. So what's the problem, what does it involve? What are the solutions that are meant to be reached? If the problem is terrorism, the solution is full-court press, not breathing down on terrorists, displaying the will to fight off traitors. It's a disgrace, a disgrace, to sit at the so-called solution table with the altars waiting to spill blood. What is it about setting up a table with marginal and morbid groups, conspiring with bargains, framing state and nation, dynamiteing our national unity and unity, not treason in the least? It's an act of insensitivity to assume that it's an increase in perception. It's a hardened conscience to think of division as a merger, disintegration as a recovery. We have repeatedly said that no issue can be resolved by seeking a gesture from terrorism, by seeking help, and that no outcome can be achieved by negotiating with terrorists. Praise be to God, we're not the kind who lose our national memory and become mankurts. When we looked at history, we saw our present, our tomorrow. We've been praying for half a century for our cultural heritage, our brotherhood, the nation's trust. I'd like to remind your esteemed committee in particular. Every time there's been a problem explanation in the past, every time the slogans of a solution are dropped, we're either human or we're from our land, just like today. When the nerve endings of our empire were tampered with, the fez migrated along with the government, and the people suffered a painful return to their final homeland along with the banner. The imperialism, which was influenced from Ishkodra to Basra, has always played tricks on us through propaganda tactics and the Shark Matter, which we now witness to its likes. Those who are practically co-chairs of the rhetoric called the upper mind will understand what we're saying if they mix up the history leaves instead of being slaves enough to agree with imperialism. There's no need to go too far. As sad as it was in the 1910s, we were faced with the concepts of the problem, the concepts used as leverage for traumatic draw and defeat at every turn. Gangs with bloody rifles in the Balkan Mountains wanted solutions, separatist committees and associations clinging to cities. He was pressing down the veil as a tremendous solution. Ethniki Eterya's desire for Helenism, which is represented by Enosis, and its leading supporter was the Lantern Greek Patriarch in Istanbul, who cried out: "My solution." The key theme of the oaths on the Bible, the crossbow, the pistol, and the dagger was the solution, and the key objective of the hidden was independence. After the Second Legislature, the Parliament held the pace of solutions to nearly 20 Greek-rooted mebus and their successor, Yorgi Boso Effendi, in Mebusan. Greece, Montenegro, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Albania, from the deserts of Hijaz, to Yemen, Turkey was lost one by identifying problems. Every problem has brought a new wave of rebellion, a new break. In the 1908s, those who were angry and angry even when Pançe Doref said to Lord Bulgaria, couldn't stop the dissolution. The external effects and suggestion have been shrouded in Turkishness, and for that, the entire empire, described as the sick man, has been cut down day by day. All of the mebus representing Arab provinces and changing their numbers between 60 and 90 were led by Abdulhamit Zehravite, who had a case of Arabism and turned their backs on the empire. The Ottoman identity, however, was unable to stop the dissolution, preventing the collapse. The great Turkish nation, with only one nation responsible for the judge, held fast to the idea of empire, and accepted fate. Now let's forget these historical truths and get caught up in the flow of problems and solutions? A century later, the representatives of the next generation will be seated at this time, divided, torn apart, the name of the settlement has been changed, and if it is called the state, should we leave an inheritance? Where will we go, not with his own name, but with individuals who predict that even his name will be changed? Congressmans, what do you have to say? You'd be going down a dark road to a Turkish nation that's been cut off in problem and solutions, an unknown route, a disaster we've always warned of, a so-called solution that we don't even know the contents of. How do you explain this in history? How are you going to tell our profession? How will you take responsibility for that? How are you going to account for that in two jihands? No, we can't, we can't accept this on the floor, we can't accept this bankruptcy, we can't allow history to repeat itself. I call to your hearts and ask: Is it a solution to put Turkey on the table with people and butchers of mercy called PKK? A murderer who was sentenced to life in prison had no such weight, I became a more effective and powerful leader in Imran. Is it a solution to hearing his words? Is it a solution for PKK militants to cut roads with Kalashnikovs to check IDs, put on masks, form so-called law enforcement teams, take extortion and make the streets impenetrable? Is being shot in the back of the back of the back of the head a solution? Is it a solution to respond fiercely and violently to a soldier's salute while sharing the joy of a footballer with the city of Bergama? I'm asking if the separatist terror is a solution, if it's enough to drive the so-called governor and the governor to appoint him. When Kurdistan is established, the work will be done. If Sevr is resurrected, will everyone rejoice when the poisoned apples of the Imra and the Kandil have fallen upon the fugitive and the dark palace? Let no one dream for nothing, the Turkish nation will not fall for it. No brother of mine, no matter his religion, no matter his origin, no matter his locality, will embrace dissolution. Let our martyrs and veterans be assured, Turkey will be divided forever. I say to those who seek assurances, to those who ask for assurances that the nationalist movement party is the feared dream of the tyrant, standing firm as the treacherous enemy of the traitor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Once again, I warn the owners of the nationalist movement party and millions of Turkish lovers stand face to face with the eyes and frowns of the noble Turkish nation as witnesses to our glorious flag, our fallen land. I'm talking to the government, the Prime Minister, who didn't understand the public order, and I'm talking to you: we're all of Turkey. Notice, in the history of a nation, the matter of civilization has never been resolved by gathering votes. It is not a time when a nation's rights of existence and life are earned by the chest. We haven't been quiet since yesterday, since he's been tripped over by the nation and the government by making a false sense of democracy, and we're not going to stay today. All my brothers who dwell in this blessed land, from Kars, to Edirne, to Haqkari, to Manisa, from Şırnak, to İzmir, to Rize, to Antalya, to this blessed land, will render your accounts in vain, and will leave your desires in your hearts. The Republic of Turkey is the sole nation, one state, one nation, one flag, one language based on the basis of one language, a great trust in our national and unitary struggle for salvation, and whatever challenges may arise, will be protected. Our state is not a universal historical phenomenon, it's not an organization built on artificialities and organized to promote differences. The people will claim your destiny again, and will not stain your future and your future again. Our country is not a piece of land where people who are too different to form one another are forced to live behind cages and without contact. Paid for the country, martyred, tortured. What misfortune will be able to break our brotherhood, destroy a thousand years of bonding and hugging? History is full of examples of those with less common values to reconcile with the community in which he lives, tearing away the main body from sharing the same future. Of course, it is clear and clear that living together cannot be achieved by violence, persecution, melting, or destroying. But the answer to our question must be answered: Where will the government's resistance be, where will its appetite swell and step by step cease to be divisive, and where will the government's resistance arise? The process of solutions did not take place where there was no public order. The solution process is not an alternative to public order. The Prime Minister, who floats through the recession with his expressions, will stay motionless until what threshold will he submit to the threats of the separatist group? Mr. Davutoglu, there are some who are very uncomfortable with the process of dissolution. He is a political tracker, and his subject is giving secret warnings. He doesn't have to look for someone else in charge. Yes, we are deeply disturbed and complaining about the vile negotiations involving the Kandil and the Imran. (Applause from MHP rows) We're concerned about the struggle, the effort, and the cowardice and the surrender that curled up in the negotiation. Do you realize that political separatists are talking about apocalypse? These environments continue their campaign for street language provocations, and they are furious at the internal security arrangement. The actions of political parties will not violate the independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and its nation. A contrary attitude is a constitutional offense that requires constitutional sanctions. So, what's the law waiting for? Who will pay for a similar act of violence during the first week of October, under the pretext of Kobani? Mr. Prime Minister, will you continue to sleep, to defend the palace, while the public order, which you have not dropped from your tongue, is crawling to the ground? While dealing with our soldiers and police, the PKK fills up its militant staff, takes children between the ages of 13 and 18 to the mountain, will you still be able to exercise and look at them helplessly? It is clear that betrayal of the Process has released the PKK and secured it. Now, betrayal is not hidden, it doesn't need to wear a mask on the bottom of the wall, in the mountains. Turkey is melting, the nation is being destroyed, the country is being debated, the traitors of today and the past are being made the crown, there is still no stopping, go on. Are you going to say that? If it goes on, how long will it go on, and if it's okay, how long will it go on? The intensity of traitorous demands will overload the system's ability to respond, and at some point, if not satisfied, the state will be unable to sustain itself. It's been called the crash every time in history. On 13 November 2009, I asked from this bench, and I repeat again: is there anyone among you who has any idea or predicts what might happen when distances get shorter, when sides are in sight? In short, did the honorable lawmakers here ever think what would happen if the inevitable encounter of those who say, "Don't interrupt" happened? Mr. President, with this feeling and thought, I pray that the central management budget of 2015 is good for our country and our nation. As I end my conversation, I salute you and our fellow saints watching us on the screen once again.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit02spe0108par0323	Thank you, Mr. Gardenie. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0108par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 25th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume our talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2013 Central Management Charter. The commission and the government are in place. Now on behalf of his people, Corrum MP Cahit Bağcı. Here you go, Mr. Bonder. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0109par0008	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the central management budget of 2015. I salute you and our citizens who are watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers, before we begin reviews of the 2015 budget, I'd like to remind you again of the first photo of Turkey in the 2000s. Turkey has experienced the most intense political instability in the 1990s and has changed nine governments in 11 years between 1991 and 2002. Political instability has brought economic instability and has faced crises in 1994, 1999 and 2001. During this period, high budget deficits have increased public debt requirements, public debt burdens have increased, interest costs have increased from the budget, and the country has become trapped in revenues and debt and interest payments. In 2002, the central management budget deficit was 11.5 per cent. Dear friends, the budget deficit is one percent from 2011 to today that many members of the European Union affected by the global crisis are unable to meet the Maastricht Criters today. The 2014 budget deficit is expected to take place at 1.4 per cent and the 2015 budget deficit at 1.1 per cent, which I would like to show you the picture of the budget deficits during the 2002-2017 Midterm Program. In 2003, the government, the AK PARTI governments, are estimated to be 0.7 at the end of the Central Future Program, with an 8.8 deficit when it began. Hopefully, these goals will be fulfilled. In his statement, Mr. Abdullah Gul, Prime Minister of our 58th Government on the budget of 2003, said: "Our main goal is to provide a stable macroeconomic growth environment and to implement structural reforms. From 2002, public finance, one of the most fragile areas of the Turkish economy, has become one of the most powerful areas of public finance, under financial discipline imposed by the EC PARTI governments today. During the EC PARTI administrations, the budget's composition also changed, and it has achieved a structure that produces prosperity for the interest lobby and prosperity for the nation. Dear friends, the share of interest costs is 43.25 percent in 2002. In 2014, the figure was reduced to 11 per cent. So in 2002, 43 liras of each $100 income went to interest, while today, $11 of our $100 income went to interest payments.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0110par0016	Congressmans, there's a hum. Besides, the MPs can't listen to themselves, and we can't listen. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0109par0017	Dear friends, the rate of interest costs in 2002 is 14.8 per cent, while the rate of interest costs in Turkey, which grew by 14.8 per cent, is only 2.8. Turkey is below the average of 28 members of the European Union in terms of VAT rates, both indirect and direct taxes. The effective VAT ratio is only 14.4 per cent. So Turkey has not increased VAT in the past 12 years and produced growth. There is a Turkey that has attracted 36% of its non-registered economy and has reached 36 per cent of its minimum-paying rate of work, which is still over 50 per cent. Dear friends, this budget is our Prime Minister's first budget. Our budget is 452 billion dollars, and the cost is 472.9 billion. The budget's ten-month budget shows that our budget will provide the projected revenues in 2014. In this framework, I would like to say that the intended revenues will also be distributed in 2015: 18.5 per cent of education in 2015, which is only 9.3 per cent in 2003. Again, 17 per cent of health in 2015, in 2002-2003, was only 2.4 per cent in the first year of the EC PARTY Governments. In 2015, investments were divided into 10.2 per cent, 6.6 per cent in 2003. Social expenditures: Today the goal is to budget 7 per cent of our social spending, which is only 3.2 per 2003. This is a picture of Turkey growing and growing, dear friends. The 2015 budget is a budget that aims to increase the quality of prosperity and quality of life, which aims to increase military spending and interest costs into prosperity-enhancing pens. The 2015 budget is a social budget, a budget that deals with poverty, a budget that aims to reduce the differences in interregional development, a budget that covers social injuries; a budget that protects the elderly, the disabled, the homeless. The GDP of social spending was only 0.8, and today it was 1.7. Social expenditures are increasing in the budget. In 2002, we have a population of less than $4.30 per day. WHEN the EC PARTY took over power, this country was a poor country. In 2014, that is 2.2 percent of our population, which has a daily spending of less than $4.30. We also aim to reset this rate within the framework of medium-term program targets. The GDP growth will be spread across all the layers of society, a Turkey that has solved the problem of absolute poverty, which has taken its share of growth and prosperity. Dear friends, from time to time, the low savings are viewed and criticized as a weakness. That's right, our savings are down. However, when our employees in the 2000s, the poor, can't even imagine living in their own homes, today, at the end of 2014, the rate of residence in their homes has reached 67 percent. Which, with the resources and loans provided, has increased the rate of living in our people's homes, and is important to show where the savings are channeling them. In addition, it is necessary to look at the involuntary share of the debt to the household. Many European Union member states are at 100 per cent GDP in terms of GDP. Only 20 per cent of the debt to the households in Turkey is paid in illegal domestic revenues. In that sense, we're in a good place compared to the world. While global financial crisis continues to impact, wages and pensions have been frozen and cut, there has been a middle class of Turkey that has created jobs for 5.7 million people in the last seven years, correcting revenue distribution, expanding the middle class. Dear friends, in a world where many countries are falling apart due to the global financial crisis in 2015, the public debt burden has been reduced, investments are increasing in national revenues, international competitiveness is increasing, direct foreign capital investments have increased, diversified the export market, adopted human-based economic policy, achieved 4.9 per cent in growth in the world between 2002 and 14 years, and, most importantly, despite efforts to disrupt public order, our nation's sensitivity, sensitivity to security, and commitment to the security of its community today is a happy 91 per cent of Turkey, despite its efforts.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0111par0027	Mr. Bonder, I'll give you one more minute, please complete your speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0109par0028	I'm finishing, Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, you are not going to raise your pension yesterday. There was a Turkey from the World Bank who took loans from the World Bank to apply financial aid and conditioned cash transfers, which was managed by the IMF's directives. Today, there is a strong Turkey that has been able to become the world's 16th largest economy, thanks to the stability, trust, peace and peace climate established during the EC PARTI administration of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government for twelve years, which aims to be in 2023, which, according to this, has set the road map and has been the head of G20 since 1 December 2014. We are proud of our country, and you are proud of it. Dear friends, I ask that our 2015 budget bring blessings to our country, our nation, and I salute you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0112par0032	Thank you, Mr. Bonder. Now on behalf of the government, Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[Standing ovations from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Prime Minister, your time is one hour.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0037	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed presidents of our political parties, our esteemed deputies, I salute you and our beloved nation. May our central management budget of 2015 be good for our country, for our nation. I know a debt of gratitude to members of the Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission, our Finance Minister and experts, the EC PARTI and all the MPs of our opposition parties, who have contributed to the formation of our budget in 2015 during the talks and with their proposals and warnings today. Also, today is World Human Rights Day, and on this occasion, I would like to stress once again our solidarity with all the oppressed people in the world who are deprived of human rights. We will continue the struggle that we have fought all over the world to protect mankind and to defend the human dignity that is worthy of the common creature. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In fact, we're going through a process where history is moving too fast. We have to interpret this fast historical flow correctly and actually put budget talks in place in the history stream every year. In this frame, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said, "No strategy, no horizons, no vision." So I'm going to try to tell you what our strategy is, what our horizons are, what our vision is. I wish he could draw us a strategy and a vision, and we could take advantage of it. (APPLAUSE) Instead, I'm going to answer the missing numbers, which my friends have left out, and I'm going to answer them one by one, but before we get into such a polemic debate, I'm inviting our entire Assembly to conduct a century of cold-blooded accounting in front of our great nation. Mr. Gardens did a century's accounting, and he came back, but he painted a very dark picture. He left us with a dark painting, referring more to the dissolution of vision and the dissolution of the empire. And I want to paint you a bright picture. I'm going to paint a bright picture that begins not with the dissolution of our empire, but with the formation of our republic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] A hundred years ago -- these budgets, life never develops in space in history -- we faced two global events in the history of the world. One of them was in a political, military area. Until then, the wars remained in limited areas, involving certain countries. For the first time, there was a process in the 20th century, where no country had been affected by the war with the First World War, and there were no nations. Again, for the first time, a global crisis occurred in 1929, which concerns the entire global economy. Now, as we passed from the 19th century to the 20th century, we had a great state tradition, a united nation, and on three continents, each member of this nation from Tripoli to the Balkans, from the Balkans to Yemen, from Galicia to the Yellowkamis, from which region, from which region did they shoulder a civilization to defend an ancient civilization, and from the one to the one to the one to the left, to the one to the one to the one to the left, to the one to the one to the other, to the other, to the other, to the ethnic group, to the other to the other, to the other, to the other to the other, to the other to the other, to the ethnic group, because they had been acting on their shoulders, to the other to the other side of civilization, because they had been acting on their shoulders. What happened? I am stressing our state -- on every occasion, the state of the Republic of Turkey is not a neutral state; the state of the Republic of Turkey, Seljuclu, Ottoman, is the last link of a very old civilization that went further into the republic line, and it is an honor for every politician to defend the values of civilization -- and what happened when we lost the last state of this ancient civilization? I'll give you three points: One: Unfortunately, there was a conflict between the wrong practices that broke your sense of belonging and the members of the nation. Two: In the institutional functioning of the state, internal structures, such as Halasharan-san, have been born into self-preservation centers. Three: The economy has been given to others by means of the public. And the fourth was added here. I said, "Let me add the fourth: the influence on neighboring peoples and world politics has become increasingly weakened. Now let's do an accounting: let's go to a hundred years later, 2001. As we travel from the 19th century to the 20th century, let us look at the situation before the AK PARTI in 2001, when our country was shaken for four reasons. Her sense of belonging was weakened. The state-family bond was almost broken. The headscarf girls were waiting at the door, being questioned, being humiliated. The motive for starting a war in Kahramanmarash was being investigated. Our Kurdish citizens -- when they went to prison to speak their language -- were unable to use their native language when speaking to their mothers. It's impossible to even talk about the rights of our Alevi citizens. It's the first time he's come up with our workshops. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Listen, look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, on your warning, I sent a message to my group, the whole group listened until the end, so please take care of your group. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) He's not here yet, because we have a lot to say, and if you get angry now, we have more to say.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0114par0055	And you watch your language.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0056	We listened, we listened.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0114par0057	And you watch your language.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0058	We listened, you listen.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0115par0059	Please, my friends, look, don't, don't, don't, let's listen to each other with respect, then it'll be easier to settle.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0060	People, the state's ownership was destroyed by February 28th practices, and the custody was clear. When the prime ministers spoke of certain tasks, they had to use symbolic language, democracy in this state. After the 2001 crisis, the IMF officer was replaced by the IMF officer, who had to button the jacket. The business didn't care what the prime minister said, the IMF officer looked at what the officer would say. I know the pain of it. Istanbul High School was the former Duyun-ı Publiciye building. I used to pray that God would never let this nation, this state, this disgrace again when I saw every dream safe there. In 2001, however, we had such an economy that was expected from the outside by interest rates and prescriptions, which reached 5,000 per cent, 6,000 per cent in one night, when ministers came in imports, when the national will was completely out of control over the economy, and it also involved international, national dimensions. See, just like a hundred years ago, we entered the 21st century with two major global-scale crises. One, with 9/11 Iraq, Afghanistan intervention and the 2008 global crisis, just like 1929, and at this time the AK PARTI power showed so much political insight and leadership that the Turkish economy, which was narrowed down against the world economy in the 1990s, was replaced by the global crisis, and we're going to focus on that. We're going to bring up four principles again and we're going to make it happen. 1) We will strengthen the nation's unity, unity, and sense of belonging; we will strengthen and strengthen. 2) We have removed all custody focuss on politics, whether it comes from the tradition of coup or postmodern or other names, all custody centers with parallel structures, and we are determined to remove them. (EC PARTY Applause) No one will be able to replace the national will represented by this Turkey's Grand National Assembly, that's the difference in the EC PARTY. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And we're going to make our economy compete with the world economy -- not just as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey here, but as the President of the G20 period. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) We were among the G20 countries in the past. Turkey was the 26th when we came to power. Now, look, so, how do we strengthen our national heritage? When I took this heavy responsibility in the presence of God, history and the nation, on the one hand, in Ankara to carry out his duties as Prime Minister, while on the other hand, as chairman of the EC PARTY, I did not neglect anything when I went to our party's congresses. I especially think Mr. Gardenie understands it very well, and I hope he will appreciate it. After I took the assignment, I went to the presence of all the prophets and spiritual leaders who made this land their homeland. First Hadji Bayram Veli, Ankara; then Sheikh Edebali - We were together at the Süğüt Çünüt Çününüsünününü; Abu Eyüb El-ensarî, İstanbul; Hazreti Mevlana, Konya; Hacı Bektaş Veli, Nevşehir; Seyyed Burhaneddin Veli, Kayseri; Ahi Evran, Kırşehir; Baba Mansur, Tunceli; Herekani, His Holiness, Kars; Feqiyê Teyran, Van, all of them. Do you know why I did that? To show that we did not put a distinction like Kurdish, Turkish, Alevi, Sunni, among the descendants of those who died together in the battle of Çanakkale to defend our state a hundred years ago, who died together in Yemen, who had saved Baku, who were martyrs together. For us, the solution process is not a process of resolving, but rather a process of blending of all members of the nation, and for us, there is no difference between the beautiful Kurdish of Feqiyê Teyran, and the beautiful Turkish of Yunus Emre. So, on the one hand, I visited those spiritual pioneers who entrusted us to this land, but within two weeks, I did one more symbolic thing: I went to Samsun to all the important places of our independent War, and we started our conventions in Erzurum, where the Erzurum Congress was built. We went to Amasya (Amasya) to read Tamimi (Amasya Tamimi) and spoke at the square of Kuzaimilliya, where the first kuvasimir light was lit. We tried to say that one day in Erzurum, one day in Balıkesir, one day in Erzurum, the world of Erzurum's Erzurum Congress, whatever it was, was the world of Abbas Necati, which started Kuvaymilliya in Balıkesir, two days after September 15th, the world of Vehbi Efendi, who started Kuvaimillimiye on September 17th, is the same. We didn't let the east and the west leave the north and the south, we'll never let it leave. For him, our struggle is the struggle for Kuvaimilli again; our struggle is the struggle to bring a whole nation back to a new historical journey with love. Now look, I'm calling all of our opposition leaders and opposition parties from here: let's all get out of our places -- let's get out of here, let's get out of here, let's get out of here, let's get out of here, let's get out of here, let's get out of here, let's get out of town, town, town, and other neighborhoods. To my Sunni citizens, embrace the Flame with your brothers. No one can come between those who say Muhammad, Ali, and those who remember that Muhammad is on his way at every opportunity. I address my brothers and sisters in Turkey and the Kurds, and all of them, the Albanians, the Bosniak, all of them: no one can separate Van and Balıkesir, if he is a martyr when he is carrying ammunition for my brothers at the age of 14-15, just as we stand together in the Influence of War, as Balıkesir and Kırklarelimli are loving Kuvaimilli. But that's not enough. I agree with Mr. Gardeny, that's not going to happen, we're going to land in the field. Look, I've landed, I'll continue to land, I've ordered our congresses... and I've ordered the election.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0116par0073	We've been in the field 50 years, 50 years.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0074	There'll be no corners of the country we haven't gone to, where we haven't waved the flag and the flag of the AK PARTY. (AK PARTY AC PARTY) Because in 71 provinces of 81, we've taken out the first party and the 78 MPs from 81 provinces. AK PARTY means everybody. So, if we're talking about a solution, we don't make a hammock, we feel the smell of everyone's sweat on our cheek in Anatolia and Thrace, without looking at their ethnic and religious background. Yeah, we'll kiss everyone's hand in respect of their age if we have to, but we don't make anyone kiss our hand. (AK PARTY) Well, the Republican People's Party has failed to remove any MPs from 33 provinces and the National Movement Party from 47 provinces. Now, take the map, please, we need this. As a ruling party, I should be pleased, but I'm not. We need the opposition that talks everywhere, so there can be a unity in the opposition, a draw, that's what people need. CHP is under 10 per cent of the threshold in 16 cities and MPP in 23 cities. You're below 5 per cent in Southeast Anatolia, you're below 7 per cent in Eastern Anatolia, I'm telling you for CHP. For MHP, you are below 5 per cent in Southeast Anatolia. What kind of representation is this? Now, see, then, what we understand from the process of resolution is that every color, every language, every mountain, every city, every square is sacred to us, and the culture, language, whatever it is that lives there, is sacred to them. It will not be possible to separate the nation from the nation, just because it is not possible to separate it from the mountains of Uludağ, and from the mountains of Nemrod, because it speaks different dialects and languages. Of course, I'm calling the HDP as well: Be Turkish now. Being a Turkish party is a virtue. Let's talk everywhere; in a neighborhood, not in a district, this is my priority call. We're strengthening, we're strengthening, we're empowering, and with the AK PARTY staff here, the AK PARTY signs all over the country, no one's going to be able to divide this nation and put a fit between these people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, the second is the strengthening of democracy. We all have to have democracy, we all have to say everything else when it comes to democracy. We all need to stand up with a loud voice when it comes to democracy, national will, whether it's this jihad or any interference. Yeah, we're up. We almost made it impossible to shut down the parties, but we didn't get enough support from this House, which would be completely impossible. In many other developments, I am proud to say that in the World Day of Human Rights, if we count our democratic reforms over 12 years, we should probably distribute another pamphlet. I won't enter because of our time, but 12 years ago, this country lived in extraordinary condition. The villages were empty, the meadows, the plateaus remained silent. Now, as we've removed the extraordinary state, we've taken the steps to democratize, and we'll continue to do so because political stability is the basis of the economy, and political stability comes with democracy. At a conference abroad, during the time of my Foreign Ministry, they asked me, "What do you owe this economic success of Turkey?" I said: "By the way, we didn't find large natural gas sources at a meeting in England -- we don't have oil resources either. No one has given us billions, hundreds of billions of euros, as in the European crisis. We weren't a colonial state, so we didn't have any savings, but you know what we discovered? That's the difference between us, it's human-oriented politics. We have moved the gem in our human being, the gem in our human being. No ore is more valuable than human ore. (Applause from the AK PARTY desks) And for this movement, look, you can refuse, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, but the buildings are in the middle, the works, everything is out there. Look, I'll just remember in every district you've already been to: we've opened 100 new universities in the last 12 years, it's been 766; we've built 234,000 classes in the first and secondary schools; we've made 73 cities natural gas; soon there will be no more cities without natural gas; we've built 757 new hospitals; we've built 1.737 primary health facilities; we've built 276 dams; we've built 1,330 sports facilities; we've built 182 youth centers; we've built 632,630 houses; we've built 189 justice palaces; we've built 179 justice palaces; we've soon divided 179 kilometers; we've built 1791 km into all of the world; we've built all of Europe; we've built and we've built the United Europe with all of Europe; we've built 276 dams. We built the ATAK helicopter; we sent the Rasat and the Skype satellites into space; for the first time, we made the national defense industry this strong; the first condition of our independence is the strengthening of our defence industry. From now on, the Turkish Armed Forces -- as you used to say -- will not have to apply for tank modernization to countries far behind us; we're building the Altay tank, we're building our plane. We've done 90 organized industrial areas, 700,000 jobs around here. I'll also come to work because it's been mentioned. We've moved our airports from 26 to 53, and you can probably fly all over Turkey from airports. We've raised the number of homes of the Finnish Credit Homes from 190, to 438. We've increased the number of student loans from 451,000 to 881. Besides, we're giving 364,000 scholarships to our students. We have raised the area of TİKA (TİKA) to 38, making it one of the world's most important human institutions. We've opened 38 Dolphin Emre Cultural Centers in 30 countries. With the help of $3 billion, $307 million official development, Turkey is the most humanitarian country in the world -- I say it on Human Rights Day. This is how the state of the Republic of Turkey is a compassionate and powerful state in our time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're done with the IMF. I'll be there in macroeconomic stability. Now, our Undersecretary of the Treasury is taking care of IMF's business as executive director for their success in Turkey. We have become the 6th largest tourist destination in the world. We've split $1 billion 376 million into social services, saving 26 billion 561 million in our new budget. We've just saved 10 billion -- 10 quadrillion -- for the disabled. The parents of the disabled thank us wherever they go because we send a sitter when the parents want to take a vacation, and they're about to be paid for by the state because they're our crown, the blessing of our country. If any of our citizens are disabled or in distress, we are not allowed to sleep in Ankara. With Project KYODES, we went to our villages with 9 billion resources. I'll come back one by one with what you said about agriculture. We've raised agricultural national income from $36 billion to $116 billion. We built a 759 power plant. In 11 years, yes, we planted 3 billion 250 million saplings. Of course, we're going to have to subtract the centuries-old sycamores from here in Yalova.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0117par0084	Take out the ones in the back.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0085	Also, thank you, if I had known that I would have waited another day, but I hope you didn't make that statement by listening to my call, but the sensitive thing is that the mayor of Yalova knew about it. Of course, you're discussing my position as Prime Minister, but if you have a little better coordination with your mayor, I suggest it's useful.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0118par0087	What was cut for the escaped palace...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0088	He'll come, I'll answer them all, don't worry. Look, 3 billion 250 million, you know the number. Hopefully, soon we'll be planting a tree for each individual. We'll plant 7 billion trees in this country, make it green. That's our environmental sensitivity. As for macroeconomic indicators -- I have to speed up a little bit, there are issues to respond to -- we've made the Turkish economy an $822 billion economy from a $230 billion economy. We've raised our economy three and a half times. Now, this growth, this number, is mathematically a number, so it's not said by imagination. He who knows math sees the difference. Now, fifty-six years, you said from 1946 to 1946, let's excuse him as a math miscalculation, but how do you explain these numbers, what are you going to do with them? So 230 billion to 822 billion. And he's also acting very cunningly, Mr. Kilicdaroglu says: "In 2009, the illegal gross was this, and now -10,500 -- it didn't go up." So who was in power in 2009, and who brought it there? He's comparing us to us, there's nothing else to compare us to. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Well, there was a global economic crisis at the same time, and Turkey's 100 incomes since 2009 went from 100 to 98, with negative growth in Europe at the same time. In some countries, let me not mention your name, all of our neighbouring countries, I don't want to offend any of them -- these numbers are down to about 70. At a time of global crisis, we continue to expand the economy, and it grows every year, but, of course, because it compares us, it's impossible to comprehend. Now, in 2002, we had 28 billion foreign currency reserves, up to 133 billion. Now, see, that's striking. Mr. Kilicdaroglu has a very interesting statement that he repeats over and over again these days, and our people are listening -- he says: "Give me four years, and I don't want any later." Now, do you know why he's saying it? He knows these numbers, so our treasure is full, he knows we have plenty of reserves, he's going to spend the next four years -- what he's going to spend -- and then I'm going to come back -- and then he's going to go away, no cheap stuff. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, look, you came to the SEC General Directorate in 1991, when the SEC was making a profit. With that time's money, there seemed to be 128 thousand liras, at least a little profit, four years later, 81 trillion 335 million damages in 1995. I wish you'd stayed four years, you've spent eight years, 1 quadrillion 111 trillion damages, S.S.K. May God protect our people. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, look...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0119par0100	Now what?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0101	Listen, why? I didn't get angry, I listened there, I took notes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0119par0102	How much is it now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0120par0103	Tell me now.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0104	Well, listen, you'll learn more. Listen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0120par0107	Yes, now...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0121par0108	Now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0109	...OECD...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0120par0110	Now, the SGK...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0111	You can give me the answer later.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0120par0112	Now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0113	Look, we're the fastest country in OECD countries to fix revenue distribution. When we took over -- the poverty limit is $4.2 a day, and there's $2 and a dollar slice -- he lived below 30.2 per cent in Turkey, living under $4.2 per cent a day. Do you know how many people are living right now? Only 2.7. They've all gone up to the middle income group over that poverty line, and we're one of the most powerful countries in the middle class. According to OECD figures, we are the fastest to correct revenue distribution from Singapore. Now, the employment issue, of course, came through the questions again, and it's something I'm really sorry about, and I was actually going to say at the end, after we'd finished our vision, but... well, I'll tell you later, I won't ruin your special thing. We've reduced poverty, there's no one left under $2.15 a day. In 2002, we increased exports of only $36 billion to 151.8 billion in 2013. In the first ten months of this year, we increased our exports by 5.6 per cent, reduced our imports by 3.9 per cent, our foreign trade deficit dropped 18.2%. By the end of October, our twelve months of exports are 158.8 billion dollars. Let's look at budget figures: The national percentage of the central management budget deficit was 11 per cent in 2002, and now it's down to 1 per cent. As of the end of 2013, compared to 28 EU member states, we are the 4th best balanced state budget countries. In 2002, each $100 tax, valued lawmakers, had 86 lira in interest payments; today, only $15 goes, and next year we will reduce it to $13. In 2002, 43.2 per cent of the total budget expenditures were interest payments, and today we reduced the interest to 12 per cent. In 2002, we reduced the rate of public debt to 33 per cent, reaching 74 per cent. In this sense, we are better off than 25 European Union member states, and we are way above European standards. In 2002, foreign direct investment, which was only $1.1 billion in our country, increased to $12.9 billion in 2013. The foreign direct investment that came to our country during 1984-2002 was $14.6 billion, with a total of 145 billion from 2003 to today. Now, when we set up all these big construction activities and all these macroeconomic indicators side by side, and we did a hundred years of accounting, there's no country that now owes IMF, like the IMF. There is a self-improvement, a country that can develop without foreign aid, without handing over the IMF. Today I present the 13th budget of the AK PARTY. On this occasion, I give my greetings and greetings to our President, who has just crossed the boundaries of respect, and here, strongly condemning the words that were made to our President, who has served this nation for the past 12 years and served this nation for the past 12 years. [[AK PARTY and the Council of Ministers give a round of applause]] If there is a high-headed, honorable country today, if we are the 7th most represented country in the world, this is dignity, this is dignity.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0122par0121	Corruption?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0122	I'll come to him. If corruption were like your era, we wouldn't be able to achieve those achievements. Remember 2001, who was tried in the Supreme Court. Remember, don't forget, don't forget.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0123par0123	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0124	If you interfere, you'll be interrupted.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0124par0125	Why did you take four ministers, four ministers?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0123par0126	Please, let's hear it. If we have to answer, we promise. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0127	We don't have to be afraid of teasing or anything like that. No one lent this country money. We didn't find the mine.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0125par0129	Four of your ministers are on trial for corruption.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0123par0130	Please, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Longitude... please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0131	By saving, by preventing corruption, this is what we've done to this country. Now...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0123par0133	Please... there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0126par0134	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0135	Mr. Gardenie, I respect you. Please tell your friends.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0123par0136	If you have to answer, you will. Please don't. Look, so far, so good. There's not much left over here. Let's be patient, please. Here you go, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0138	Now, our 2015 budget is 473 billion Turkish liras. This size -- pay attention -- was 119 billion Turkish liras in 2002. I'm just -- I'm reminiscing about what's in health and education -- 87.5 billion that we've devoted to education, 80.9 billion that we've devoted to health. When you add the two together, we're now saving 168 billion, 168 billion for two pens. In 2002, the entire budget was 119 billion. Where did this money come from? Here's for cutting hoses, stopping corruption. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's just training...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0127par0139	The hoses are for you...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0140	Now I'll come to corruption. I have something to say to you, too. Hold on, hold on, honey, there's no rush. Now, just because he called education -- Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- and our budget for health is 60 billion more than the total budget in 2002. That's the difference. Well, as the 62nd government, we present our first budget. As soon as we received the assignment, we immediately read our government programme from this platform. Some expectations were likely: The government, the new government, the 62nd government, makes a program that covers the remaining eight or nine months -- up to the election -- to provide a temporary program. No, I gave instructions to my friends. Not eight months, but four years, nine years, until 2023. We will schedule the second breakthrough and the rise of the new Turkey. And we did this, we did this on five fundamentals: advanced democracy, humanitarian development, habitable places and environment, strong economy, pioneer country. That's our 2023 vision. While we're trying to fulfill this vision, your dreams can't reach it, Mr. Kilicdaroglu. We have strategy, we have horizons, we have vision, we don't just criticize. We just announced the Midterm Program, and then... now, of course, they're surprised because they think the economy is static. Why have structural transformation programs been... for 12 years? The world's changing, the economy's dynamic, we're out of the global crisis. At the G20 meeting, everyone was talking about the structural reform effort, and only the two countries were able to explain the structural reform package: Turkey and Mexico. In the world's economies, the decision made at G20 is now debated how to achieve 2 percent development. We're doing 23% of the world average of normal target development, and we're going to keep doing it. We've announced the programme in the structural, sectoral 25 areas, we've given details at 9/, we've announced 1,300 action plans, and hopefully when we do these, we'll have the real sector in Turkey to rise to the highest level of exporting, and most importantly, we'll make serious breakthroughs in the area of RD. Last week, at the innovation meeting -- which is a convenient invention -- I proposed to Turkishize it -- we mentioned it during the innovation week. By the time we came to power, it was only 0.55 per cent of the GDP, and it's now doubled, 1 per cent. As soon as we get to the developed countries, we'll go up to 3%, that's our goal. We encourage RD studies everywhere. We are determined to continue these studies in education and other areas. In short, when our national sense of belonging is strengthened, based on this, when national will is imposed, when democracy sits on solid ground, when the economy stands on solid ground -- the fourth important issue -- you become a respectable country in the world. A hundred years ago, they took us from the neighboring peoples, they tore our nation apart. We built our foreign policy on integration with neighboring peoples. See, within a month, I went to Baghdad, and to Baghdad, and to Erbil. I hope Mr. Abadi comes here. We are reinitiating a joint cabinet meeting at the High-level Strategic Co-operation Council. (AK PARTY) We were in Greece, we held a High-level Co-operation Council meeting. Mr. Putin came to Ankara, we had a High-level Co-operation Council meeting. You know, there's trouble with the neighbors. It's called, look, we've started, we're doing it all. Do you know who we have a problem with, Mr. Kilicdaroglu? Here we have trouble and will have trouble with Bashir Assad, who sent that little Syrian girl you saw here. That little girl you were talking about, if we had listened to you and closed our door to them, she wouldn't be alive, she wouldn't be alive. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] While bombs were falling on Aleppo, while Turks were being slaughtered in Bayırbucak, Aleppo in Aleppo, Idlip. While Kurds, Turks, Arabs were being slaughtered...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0128par0150	Mr. President, when he's supposed to address the General Assembly, he's targeting people, saying the right words to the presidents.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0151	E, Mr. Kilicdaroglu also turned and spoke like this. Isn't that right, fellas?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0129par0153	The General Assembly is everywhere. Yes, Mr. Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0155	Now, wait a minute, you sent a delegation there, you sent a delegation to slaughter the Bayırbucak Turkmen, you shook the hand of Bezar Assad. See, we have a problem with them. Once again, we have a problem with wherever there is a tyrant, it's an honor. We embrace the oppressed wherever they are, and it's an honor. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] The matter of Egypt... we have no problem with the Egyptian people. Since Kilicdaroglu never went to Cairo... if you go, take a taxi, I'm sure he won't take money from you because you're Turkish, because they all know us. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) In Egypt, we...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0130par0158	Are you going to Egypt, Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0159	We have no problem with the Egyptian people. Egypt is our dear and ancient friend, but we have a problem with coupgers, as we have a problem with you, you are the coupger, as we have a problem with you...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0130par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0113par0162	We're just getting started. Sit down.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0131par0164	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0132par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0133par0166	Take that back!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0131par0167	Friends, please... please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0134par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0131par0169	Sir, let him finish his speech, I promise you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0135par0171	He'll take it back, that promise.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0134par0172	No, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0131par0173	No, I promise you, let him finish his speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0134par0174	We never agree.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0136par0175	He'll take it back.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0137par0176	He'll take it back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0177	No, now, look, dear MPs, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0139par0179	There's the head of the group. The head of the group is also the head of the group.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0180	Please take your seats. If you finish your speech...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0140par0181	Is that even possible? He'll take it back.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0182	Let the Prime Minister explain what he means.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0140par0183	What kind of Prime Minister are you?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0185	Please take your seats. Please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0141par0186	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0188	Please take your seat, and I promise you he'll finish his speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0142par0189	You've stretched Turkey, you've stretched the House. Way to go!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0190	Please... please, dear friends... please, take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0143par0191	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0192	Please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0144par0193	He'll take it back, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0143par0194	Sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0195	Perhaps the Prime Minister will explain what he means. If you're not satisfied, I promise you, I promise you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0145par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0198	Friends... Mr. Gök... the Prime Minister will explain what he means. If you're not satisfied, I promise you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0146par0200	He'll answer when he's done talking.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0201	But not like this, we can't negotiate like this. Yes, please, Mr. Prime Minister... [[AK PARTY and CHP rows stand-by exchange of words]] Friends, please, take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0147par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0148par0206	Mr. President, I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0207	Friends, please... please, take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0149par0208	Let me explain. Mr. President, let me explain.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0210	Please, please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0149par0211	Yeah, let me explain, sit down, sit down, let me explain.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0150par0212	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0213	Wait a minute... wait a minute, you can't understand, there's no way we can make a mutual agreement with this noise. The Prime Minister will explain what he means. If you disagree, if you don't think it's enough, I promise you, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0150par0214	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0215	I'm telling you, I promise. So...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0151par0216	Mr. President, when this conversation is over, the head of the group will respond. Is that any way to stop talking?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0217	...let the Prime Minister finish his speech, that's the way it is. Of course, you don't have to participate in every conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0152par0219	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0138par0220	Mr. Prime Minister, would you please explain again what you mean?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0153par0222	Okay.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0152par0223	Mr. President, there's no explanation for the insult, there's no apology.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0153par0224	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0225	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Sir, Mr. Prime Minister, he'll explain what you mean. If you're not satisfied, if you don't find it right, then we'll proceed according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0155par0227	Mr. President, our Prime Minister will continue to speak...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0228	Yes, please... please, friends, if you would just...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0155par0229	...the presidents of the group are there, and the presidents of the group will answer as they should when the conversation is over.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0230	Everybody take your seats... let's make a deal, everybody take your seats. I can't listen to so many people at once.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0231	So... so...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0232	Mr. Prime Minister, what do you mean by that? Compromise that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0233	Now, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0157par0234	Mr. President, how can you not sit down!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0235	Everyone please take your seats... please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0236	There's no need for such rage. Take it off... (CHP rows) Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0154par0237	Please, Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0238	Mr. Kilicdaroglu, like everyone else, must also think about the promise a person will hear when a word comes out of his mouth. If you return to me and address me as fighting with the people of Egypt, the whole world will be...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0158par0240	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0241	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0159par0242	What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0243	Wait a minute... wait a minute... [[Aren't you the enemy from the CHP ranks?]] We're not.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0160par0246	Please... guys, just hear me out! Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0156par0247	The Egyptian people and the Turkish people are brothers. And I'll give you...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0161par0248	This is what you've done to the Middle East! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0162par0249	It's in your tradition of coups! What do you deny?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0163par0251	Guys, please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0162par0252	You're a coupger, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0163par0253	Everyone, please take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0164par0254	Wait a minute, don't get angry, we'll answer your questions. Wait a minute... for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0165par0255	You respond to a coup d'état, coup d'état. Who's the coupger? Tell me about it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0163par0256	Guys, please... Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead. However, it would be appropriate if you brought a concession, Mr. Prime Minister, if I may.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0166par0258	Now, look, you said we made enemies of the Egyptian people.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0167par0259	No, I didn't say enemy. Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0166par0260	We'll take it off.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0168par0261	You are responsible for the war in Syria.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0166par0262	Yes, Syria...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0169par0263	Mr. Ünal, no one interferes.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0166par0264	I, too, accuse you of being a coupger for sending a delegation there when there was a coup in Egypt. Okay?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0169par0266	No, wait a minute... sir...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0166par0267	I accuse you of supporting the coup, but you have a scar, and if you remember May 27th, it's your own business.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0170par0268	Mr. President, we don't accept this.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0169par0269	Now, my friends, he said what he meant. If you're not satisfied with this, let him finish his speech, I promise. Let him finish his speech. But you can't understand what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0171par0270	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. The vice president of the group can't get involved with the head of the group here. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0170par0271	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0169par0272	I can't understand what you're saying. Mr. Prime Minister, please continue.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0172par0274	Look, you don't think this country...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0173par0275	Mr. Prime Minister, please take that back.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0172par0276	I'm not taking it back. You shook the hands of the coupgers.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0174par0278	Please... please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0173par0279	Mr. Prime Minister has to apologize.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0174par0280	Mr. Hamzacebi, please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0175par0281	Who the hell are you to give orders to the Prime Minister? Who are you? Who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0176par0282	Mr. Group President will respond.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0174par0283	Please... Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0177par0284	You're the coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0178par0285	You're going to insult the President of this country, make the government of this country a problem with another nation. You're going to react in the slightest criticism. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0177par0287	Mr. Prime Minister, I'll tell you one thing, sir...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0179par0288	And it's not you! There's the head of the group.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0180par0289	Mr. President can't describe the speaker's speech!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0177par0290	Prime Minister, I'll tell you one thing, sir: will you be able to go to Egypt?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0181par0291	Please!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0182par0292	Look, I'll tell you again...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0183par0294	The Constitution is in violation!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0182par0295	And in case you can't dictate to me, I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0184par0296	Will you be able to go to Egypt?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0185par0297	Mr. Hamzacebi... Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0182par0298	Sit down, sit down...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0185par0299	But, look, let's get one thing straight: you may disagree with the Prime Minister's word, you may be uncomfortable. You finish his speech, you demand it, we give you our word. That's the way it is. We can't do anything mutual by stopping talking.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0186par0300	Mr. Prime Minister, we're listening.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0187par0301	I'm just saying, will the Prime Minister be able to go to Egypt? Let him explain that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0185par0302	Mr. Hamzacebi, you are an experienced friend. You know how this works. You complete his speech, explain his views, if there's a taunt, if there's an accusation, you answer. If we don't make a promise, then you'll make such objections. Let the Prime Minister continue his speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0188par0304	You've been taken from this, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, you've been taken. I didn't mean...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0189par0306	Just one sentence: explain this, sir, if you will go to Egypt.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0188par0307	Listen, listen a minute. It's obvious what I mean. We are with the Egyptian people, against the coupgers. So you went and sent a delegation when the coup took place. That's what I mean.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0189par0309	Will you be able to go to Egypt? Will you be able to go to Gaza?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0190par0310	Don't say anything!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0191par0311	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0312	But I don't know why you're so offended.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0193par0314	Guys...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0315	If you're thinking of May 27th, it's up to you. Now, if you're going to listen calmly, I'm going to draw attention to one more thing, and you're going to listen calmly. Do you know why I had to use such a heavy statement, Mr. Kilicdaroglu?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0194par0318	Look, you're still using!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0319	Wait a minute!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0195par0320	Please, Mr. Prime Minister... please, General Kurula, General Kurula.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0321	Sometimes it's good to empathize. Now, I'm gonna get to something else. Yes, I said in the AK PARTI Extraordinary Congress: "Our politics are a matter of morality, a matter of virtue." And from now on, I say: "Our politics will be moral, virtue, wisdom."
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0196par0324	I hope so, I hope so.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0325	Now, you turned around, and you told the entire Council of Ministers, particularly me, that, of course, your children have no business problems and...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0197par0327	Let him speak in peace.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0328	Wait a minute... wait a minute... You made an anonymous accusation. What you mean is that our children are being wrongfully employed somewhere? [[Of the CHP's rows, so it is.]] Okay. Look, my children, my relatives, they're all in the square, our fellow ministers. But I have something to show you, a document. It's 1997. Mr. Kilicdaroglu was deputy undersecretary in those years and director of the USSR. Son of Kılıçdaroğlu... who, I am never in principle opposed to mixing politics with family... but since you have returned and accused us of being anonymous, listen patiently to the words you will now hear.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0198par0334	We'll listen...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0335	Kılıçdaroğlu's son, 14 years old, is a senior in elementary school; he is employed by a company; he is on March 1, 1997.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0199par0336	Your kids are coming in too.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0337	Listen. The date of his dismissal is May 1st, 1997. There's an arrangement for retirement age in those days. You hire your 14-year-old, you make it insured, the kid looks like he's working at school, and then you take it off.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0200par0339	I explained it on that stand.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0201par0340	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0341	And here's the way in and out... Explain, explain... explain how a 14-year-old child is insured in your time.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0201par0343	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0344	Now I ask, listen, you answer. Uh...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0202par0345	Does that boy have a ship?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0346	If you turn to me, look, if you come back to me and say anything about my family, you'll get your answer, no matter who does it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0203par0348	Mr. Prime Minister, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0192par0349	Your daughter Azime Aslı Kılıçdaroglu, born 1976, 19 years old; she takes a job on April 1, 1995; she quits on April 30th. It's only done to get an insurance job in your time. Mr. Zeynep Kilicdaroglu, I apologize to all of them. It's not your children's fault, it's yours. I apologize to them, but you forced me to say it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0204par0350	You're not doing a good thing, Prime Minister. Why are you mixing families?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0205par0351	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, that's enough! Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0206par0353	Please, friends... Mr. Prime Minister, let's not make this too personal, please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0207par0355	Now, again, your vice president has made some allegations. Some of the people who stole the KPSS exams with someone whispering... look, the claim that they were taken without a test.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0208par0356	You played together.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0207par0357	Here are dozens of Kilicdaroğlu and Kilicdaroglu, whose previous last name is Karabulut, the things of the families of Gündüz.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0209par0358	Mr. President, what does this have to do with the budget we're talking about right now?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0210par0359	Talk about the budget, come to the budget.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0211par0360	What's it to you? You talk about everything, what's it to you?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0209par0361	What does that have to do with anything? Are you going to deceive Turkey with this?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0210par0362	Make an evaluation here, make a review here. There's no such thing as kindness. Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0212par0364	Mr. Prime Minister, the matter is well understood, please address the General Assembly before we make it too personal.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0365	Okay. Mr. Kilicdaroglu, I'll send you this file. With your signature, there's a report on you from the review board, and it's clearly said on this board that...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0214par0367	We're talking about the budget, the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0368	...that the extra points have been given and eventually the number of winners has been increased. I'll give it to you. I don't mean to waste time. Let's leave our families out of it if we're going to level out in politics. You will not be able to return to the government anonymously, nor will we allow it. Now, there's this beautiful thing, but I'll appreciate it somewhere. I'm sure everyone knows Abu Zer. It's very important. A few days ago, in the context of religion, he spoke of the Middle Ages as darkness. Abu Zer is the enlightened figure of what you call the Middle Ages darkness, and we are on his path. The period you call the Middle Ages is the period of Haci Bektas Veli, the period of the People's House, the period of the Twelve Imams, but there is distance. Read Abu Zer. If you read more, there is a chance that you will become the subject of our civilization. Now, DEAK, 1 per cent tax on DEAK. Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the accountant. That was one of those questions. It's not taxes, it's dues. You don't need the law for the dues. The dues are regulated by regulations, and there is absolutely no external procedure here. Now, there are some issues about energy that exploit our farmers as well. Now, Mazot says Turkey is the most expensive, sold for $2.10 in Turkey. Now, of course, because he doesn't keep track of the markets, and his advisors always give him the wrong grades. On my way to the Republican People's Party headquarters, I believe there's a gas station somewhere on the right. Look at it go, it's $3.97 Turkish now, which is $1.74, not $2.10, but $1.74. Okay, so look at this. And in the last five months, his engine has been 26 percent off, 33.5% off. Now, about the gas that the farmers use, he's trying to provoke our farmers again. We also provide diesel support for the price of diesel. We pay them 15 percent of the cost of the mazots each farmer uses, and in our time, our farmers were given 5.3 billion Turkish liras, or quadrillion diesels. I speak to our farmers from here, and with their blessings, our economy will flourish. Now, one of the questions you're asking again is in the field of agriculture. Two Thracian lands have gone out of agriculture. I don't know how he calculated, where he found it, where he placed Thrace, and how he calculated it. So this is mathematics, geography, but in 1961-2002, in forty-one years, there were 450,000 hectares of massification, which is for productive agriculture. In our time, 4.5 million hectares have been productive in 12 years, 10 times that. We've done 10 times what's been done in 40 years. So you have to be careful when referring to the numbers. He said, "Why don't you support one percent of the national income?" Because it's just here, I'll send you all the transcripts - looking at cash things. The issue of support: Look, cash grant support through agricultural goods purchases, interest subsidies of agricultural loans, etc.; all the details, the ratio is 1.12 per cent; it's above 1 per cent. In addition, the OECD declares tax incentives and OECD Turkey's agricultural support at 2%, according to OECD. So it's a process that shouldn't be done to just take a pen and deflect the number here. Likewise, he gave an example of Holland. Now, the Netherlands is about the size of Iconia, right, I'm proud of it as Iconian, there are many European countries. Now, the Netherlands says it exports $100 billion total of 17 billion of Turkey. Do you know how much the total food production of the Netherlands is, Mr. Kilicdaroglu? 16 billion. Turkey is more than that because Turkey is the largest agricultural producer in Europe. So, how does he sell 100 billion? He buys it imported, works it and sells it like that. Now, therefore, 80 billion of 100 billion already come from imports.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0215par0376	You imported hay.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0377	We are now the 7th largest agricultural country in the world, the 1st agricultural country of Europe. When we arrived, we were the fourth in Europe. Thus, the distance we travel in all these areas is the pursuit of everyone's appreciation. Again, there was no additional inflation difference on the officer's salary. Because the base salary was raised from 1,027 Turkish liras to 1,205. 178 Turkish liras have increased, that's 17 percent increase. Since we raised the salary at once on the base, we've already given a lot more than inflation. So if you come in here and try to provoke our officers, our farmers, against us, with extremely provocative words, it doesn't produce results...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0216par0379	He's a coupger, he's a coupger!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0380	...because these people know where we've come from in 12 years, these people know exactly where we've come from.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0217par0381	You imported hay, hay, hay.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0382	Look, the Ministry of National Education has mentioned the number of teachers. We now have 851.854 teachers, 458 of this. A thousand of them started in our time, 50 percent of them. So more than 50 percent of our total teacher started in our time. If there was such a power as yours, I suppose the existing teachers would have lost their jobs, too. In this sense, in the 2015 budget, the amount we set aside for teachers is already a clear framework for everyone. Since my dear friends have answered matters concerning the Court concerning the budget, I will not go specifically. You made this gold thing a little bit louder, and you said it out loud. Incinerated gold imports have been exempt from VAT since 1984, customs taxes since 1996, since your time. Thus, a non-tax-responsive property cannot be seized by a property that has already passed through Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0218par0385	There is no passage from Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0386	This is not an advanced issue in our time. The penalty is legally issued for misproclaimed property. This punishment is also an administrative fine according to Article 239 of the Customs Law.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0219par0387	What happened to 292 kilos of gold?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0388	I'll say it, I'll say it. There's already an investigation going on in the records, nothing hidden. It's about the gold, the amount declared before coming here is 1,500 kilograms. Other than this statement, no Turkish official had ever made contact with those gold, and it was later determined that there were 1,283 kilograms when he left. The difference between the preliminary statement and the real scale here is that no Turkish official has ever had any contact with it in any way. [ Applause ]
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0220par0389	Cantar difference!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0390	Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, if you want to look at the files again, you can look at the files.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0221par0391	We have all those files.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0392	He'll take it off... you already mentioned it, and I'm answering to you. There are no external transactions against the arrangements for gold. That's it. [ Applause ] Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is trying again to bring me face to face with our President in a more subtle, not mindful way. He's doing it with other explanations. Because he knows exactly what kind of adventure you're having with Mr. Baykal, so he thinks we are, too.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0222par0395	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0396	Yeah, yeah. When you visited Mr. Baykal, I was not going to be president. You said, two days later, you were running for president.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0222par0398	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0223par0399	Mr. President, I'd like to invite you to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0400	See, now, our relationship with our President has not begun with politics, it's not over with politics, it's not over with death; it's the brotherhood of the world-after.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0224par0402	God forbid! God forbid!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0403	The fundamental concept of our political culture, our morality, is loyalty, so we called our congress the Congress of Loyalty. But 200 of the 900-odd congressional delegates who nominated you didn't vote for you, it was your own congress. That's the difference between us. When we promise, it's up to the grave, to the grave. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, once you can't stomach defeat, admit it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0225par0406	You weren't elected, you were appointed. You're the appointed Prime Minister, the appointment!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0407	You've all come together. In the presidential election, our people made our Prime Minister President, who served him for 12 years. You still can't stomach it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0226par0408	Mr. Speaker, I'd like to invite you to join us in the Civil Code 69. Isn't that a personal and personal statement? I mean, does a prime minister talk to this person like that?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0410	Now, look...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0227par0411	Mr. Prime Minister, continue, please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0412	Sure, you thought I'd stay quiet, didn't you? You thought I'd shut up, we won't shut up.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0227par0413	Mr. Prime Minister, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0414	You ask questions, you get answers.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0228par0415	Put on your boxing gloves.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0416	Now, he says, "Why didn't you explain the palace and the presidential palace?"
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0229par0417	Mr. President, you know the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0418	November 6th, when the matter first came up, I instructed the PM's office, and the Prime Minister's statement, a long statement, it must have escaped Mr. Kilicdaroglu's view, or he couldn't keep track of the events. I will only read part of this statement: the state, which comes to these tasks with the votes of our nation, will use them to serve the state and the nation as long as they remain in office, and will hand over the trust to those who are in charge when they leave with democratic elections in the constitutional framework. The people are the only ones who own all these possibilities. However, only our beloved nation will decide who will be given the trust. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, what does that mean? And when We made clear to them, so that I might inform them of what they did not understand. You know what that means? Work hard, enter the hearts of the people, enter the elections in five years, go sit there.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0230par0422	Elections are every four years.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0423	I mean, there's no need to debate the presidential office, or our president for that. So I think I've answered all these questions, your number one questions. Let me recap: Our budget, the first budget of the second launch of our 62nd government, is the beginning of a new launch budget and, in a sense, a new era of construction. Just as a new era in the establishment of our republic began, hopefully the world will feel the footsteps of a global force rising in 2023. So we're determined to consider the four fundamental issues I said in the first place. We will strengthen our sense of belonging, meet our citizens, our friends, our friends, our fates, embrace them, make them an integral part of this country. Someone's going to try to divide it, someone's going to try to put it into a fit, someone's going to talk only in the east, someone's going to talk only in the west, someone's going to go north, Thracya, someone's going to go to inner Anatolia...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0231par0425	Divide, divide, divide!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0213par0426	...but we'll go everywhere, and we'll call it the spirit of the kingdom everywhere. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two, no matter where anyone's inspired, no matter what kind of traps they've set, the AK PARTI custody has broken down, their custody will make democracy permanent in this country, and we're building a new Turkey, hopefully, which has been crowned with democracy, just as the great world war at the beginning of the 20th century and the great crisis behind it, and if the Republic of Turkey is born in the present global crisis and global tensions. This new Turkey will be a Turkey whose culture will ensue democracy, which will bring together its ligature citizens, its fellow believers, its economists, its heads high in its economy, its strength in the defence industry, and it will be considered internationally. Our path didn't start yesterday, and it didn't start in the last century, and we're today's event of a blessed march that's been going on for centuries. We have no pride, no pride. If we have the honor of being the dust of this holy march somewhere in history alone, we will only be glad. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] With these wishes, and with this vision, I wish you the best of our 2015 budget, my respects, my conversations, in the case of our claim to be the global force that rose in every area in 2023.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0232par0432	Thank you, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0233par0433	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0232par0434	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0233par0435	In his speech, the Prime Minister has charged the Republican People's Party with a coup d'état.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0234par0436	Right.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0233par0437	In his speech later to clarify his words, he did not make an assessment of this accusation. That's why I'd like to speak according to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0235par0438	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0439	Yes, Mr. Elistash.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0235par0440	We're having a budget meeting here.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0237par0441	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0442	Wait a minute, let me hear it first, if there's anything else, then...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0237par0443	You promised you'd listen to him later, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0444	Please, no. He has other demands. Sir, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0237par0445	Hamzacebi talks, then you listen. It's always been the practice.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0446	Sir, just a minute. I didn't say I wouldn't. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0237par0448	Elitaş will change your mind?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0449	Wait, no. We have a friend who demands more. The demand is coming to us. I won't take anyone's credit, don't worry. I mean, a few minutes won't help.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0237par0450	No, Elitaş can change your mind now.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0451	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0238par0452	Mr. President, we're having a budget meeting. Political party heads voiced criticism on the budget. In fact, they said it differently by missing a little bit of the knob. It's the business of budget talks. Mr. President-General, Mr. Prime Minister's speech, Mr. Kilicdaroglu is here. Mr. Group Vice President, it is unethical for the Prime Minister to respond here. If Mr. Kilicdaroglu comes out, let's answer here against Mr. President General.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0455	Yes, well, understood, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0239par0457	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0458	I will, sir, if I could have a moment of your time.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0240par0459	I just want to say something from my place.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0460	I'm gonna need you to...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0240par0461	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0236par0462	If that's where you need to step, please.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0240par0463	No, it's okay. ...you mentioned corruption in 2002. We have no immunity from 2002-2007 as ministers in coalition conditions at the time, and some of those ministers are here today. You've been in power for 12 years; if you haven't asked for an account of this, you're out of line.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0241par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0240par0467	Look, no one talks about our honor and honor. So, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0242par0468	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0243par0469	Mr. President, what language is this?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0244par0470	Mr. President, would you like to invite the court?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0242par0471	Yeah, wait a minute, guys, I'll figure it out. Wait a minute, let me get this straight.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0245par0472	Mr. President, or they're with those who feed on corruption at that time, or they're mufteri.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0242par0473	Well...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0245par0474	In that respect, I'd like to put it on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0242par0475	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0245par0476	I urge the Prime Minister to pay attention to these anonymous accusations.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0242par0477	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. Guys, let's do this the way we do it. It's not a matter of talking for a minute or two, but if we do it the way we do it, it means something, and if it doesn't, it's a wrong path. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0246par0483	Thank you. Mr. President, this is our 13th budget meeting with the Justice and Development Party. The 13th budget meeting was sadly held with the Prime Minister's speech.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0247par0485	Thanks to you, thanks to you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0246par0486	This bench has never been used against its will. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I won't use Mr. Prime Minister's style, but I'm very sorry that when the Prime Minister came out here, Mr. Kilicdaroglu said: "There is no vision of this budget." He said, "There is no strategy." I'll tell you vision and strategy. He said. I ask you, in the name of vision and strategy, what did Mr. Davutoglu say here?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0247par0490	It's your problem if you don't understand.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0248par0491	That's your capacity.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0249par0492	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0250par0493	Mr. Davutoglu, you'll also say...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0249par0494	Listen to him. Whatever he has to say, he'll appreciate it. You don't have to accept it. That's your business.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0251par0495	But warn them as well, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0249par0496	Please, I'm telling everyone, darling, don't make any bigger mistakes by showing each other how wrong you are. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0252par0498	Sir, I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0249par0499	Otherwise, by morning, these wrongs will all go away.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0252par0500	Now, Mr. Davutoglu, you'll also say that we shouldn't involve our families. If you say anything about my family, I will make you miserable. You will make an assessment of Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's children.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0253par0502	Right or wrong?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0254par0503	And it happened, and it happened; and it came to pass.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0255par0504	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0505	There's no harm at all, make an assessment of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's children. What did Mr. Kilicdaroglu's children do? He was insured for two months at a private company when he was a student.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0257par0507	Reading, reading.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0508	How do you respond to that? Your ministers, the President's children, their relatives, have taken a job as a civil servant without a test.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0257par0509	Where?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0258par0510	Where, where?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0511	That's what you say in return. Bravo, bravo! Our people will appreciate that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0259par0513	Bravo to you!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0258par0514	Give me an example of what was done illegally.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0515	Mr. Davutoglu, you're saying: "Look, we're giving more than 2 percent of the OECD in agricultural support."
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0260par0516	Don't worry, don't worry too much.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0517	Mr. Davutoglu, we've talked in the old years, and you don't know, your Deputy Prime Minister didn't give you any information. This figure is in 3.6 per cent Turkey in 2002, with OECD figures and agricultural support. You fell under it, you're miserable. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu's children were insured only for two months.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0261par0519	Child laborer, child laborer!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0520	They don't own 14 companies at the age of 14. [[CHP rows (Bravo) voices, applause, noise from the AK PARTY]] We've broken custody, he says. Mr. Prime Minister, you are now under custody. Your predecessor published a Prime Minister's General Assembly, tied all real estate, public real estate, mining licenses to himself. You don't even have the courage to stand up to the Prime Minister and lift that sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0262par0524	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0263par0525	Your president can't even get up there and answer.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0256par0526	Well, there's a lot to be said for sure, but since we don't have time, I'm gonna end up talking here. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0264par0529	Sir, thank you very much. I've extended your time, but you should know that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0265par0530	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0264par0531	Dear friends, I have something to express. Look, we think politics is just a matter of words and no answers. Twelve more days here, on this stand, in this room, we'll discuss budgets. There's no way out. What you can't answer today, you can give tomorrow, you can give another day, but someone said one thing, another thing... in order to avoid unnecessary debate, we're forced to do the wrong of another, the same as you, the same as you, the same as someone else. Come on, this kind of General Assembly debate isn't right. Everyone listened, our nation listened. Our people make the biggest decisions. Let's settle this and leave it at that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0266par0532	You don't object to coup?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0265par0533	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Hamzacebi has expressed in his speech that the AK PARTI power is under the care of all of us.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0267par0534	No, the Prime Minister said the Prime Minister is under custody.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0268par0535	No, I said the Prime Minister is under custody, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0269par0536	Wait a minute, before you did, Mr. Koray Aydın would have had a request.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0268par0537	I said the Prime Minister was under custody, and I have no bullying against the group. The group doesn't have a say in this.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0270par0538	We didn't mean you, you're not under custody. You have to review the records and then make a promise. I didn't say it. The preacher says it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0271par0540	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0272par0541	Sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0271par0542	Mr. Prime Minister, you have friends who have been sent to the Supreme Court, turning towards our ranks. I want word on that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0272par0543	Here, if you want to talk. I'll give it to you. But, Mr. Elitaş, if there's been any bullying, it's in the name of the government.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0273par0545	Yes, to the government, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0272par0546	It wasn't done to the Justice and Development Party, it was ruled. If the government wants to answer, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0274par0548	Mr. President, would you leave this to us? He's insulting our president.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0272par0549	But we're not gonna get anywhere with this kind of talk, I assure you. A debate like this... look, we've taken it so far, we've been giving it a good test, we've been giving it a good look. Everything has fallen into another place. This kind of negotiation is of no use to Turkey. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0275par0553	Dear friends, we just heard our Prime Minister. God help you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Prime Minister, in 2002, your party was in power, and you came to the House most of the time. Then you've referred many ministers from the previous government to the Supreme Court on the basis of your numerical majority. I'm one of them. I, then, came to this stand when those negotiations were being held. Then my party isn't in Congress, I came here alone, I gave a speech from that stand again, from here. Read the transcripts, and I said, "Don't do everything you can, move me to the Supreme Court, because I have no account that can't be given, I will go there, I will account for it. After that, the majority of the Parliament, you, the government, you control all my trials, your Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Bay, your Ministry of the Bay, we have not begged, we've been judged, we've been judged, we've been judged, we've been judged, and I've passed the history of the Constitutional Court without the least doubt, with the alliance of 11 judges. Now, the charge you're trying to make by pointing your finger here is hanging over you. (MHP and CHP rows) Just three days ago, your minister was begging you not to send me to the Supreme Court of Investigation. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Why? Because, friends, anyone caught stealing is called a thief, and that's all there is to it. I'm amazed that you'd come back and say these things to these people, while there are these interesting and exposed allegations of corruption from the top to the bottom, which has proven to be true. God will guide you and guide you to the right path.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0276par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0277par0558	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0276par0559	Mr. President, for the reasons I've just explained, I'd like a word from you about the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0277par0560	Here you go, but this is the last time, and I'm not making any more promises. Please don't give me another pick-me-up.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0276par0563	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0278par0564	Elitaş, tell the imam!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0279par0565	Tell me about the imam in Kayseri, the imam!
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0280par0566	Please, friends...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0281par0567	We've been talking here for about six hours, seven hours. Mr. Kilicdaroğlu has listened patiently to the AK PARTY Group. And you gave a warning to our first friend here.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0280par0568	Right.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0281par0569	And then Mr. Prime Minister -- in squares and televisions -- warned our group, and said: "Friends, it is our duty to listen respectfully when a political party speaks, especially the leader of the main opposition party.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0282par0570	He didn't insult me, he didn't insult me.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0283par0571	Didn't he say that?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0281par0572	Mr. Gardenie, as we speak, our friends have endeavored to listen with great interest, as best they could, without making any promises.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0284par0573	But those speakers didn't insult me.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0281par0574	But, Mr. Prime Minister, you're the cause of the child you've adopted by Mr. Prime Minister, showing a picture of the abuse of a Syrian child in particular. A tension has arisen at the Republican People's Party following his remarks.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0285par0576	He's not... he's not... he's not.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0281par0577	And Mr. Kilicdaroglu stood here, along with the group's deputy presidents, behind whom the MPs insulted Mr. Prime Minister, and I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0286par0578	What insult?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0287par0579	No.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0288par0580	Never.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0289par0581	Mr. President-General, look, you've got three members of the group presidents standing next to you. That group jumps the vice presidents, that group will apologize. They say, "How are you the Prime Minister?" They find the courage to say, "How are you the Prime Minister?" They get it from you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0288par0582	Courage? This is Parliament.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0290par0583	Not at all.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0289par0584	Look, Mr. Kımdıroğlu, if you ask the fellow next to you, he'll tell you, I warned him.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0291par0585	Please address the General Assembly, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0292par0586	Look, Elitaş, you can't say the word of a fighter here. I said it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0289par0587	Look, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, there could be criticism here, and it could be hurtful. Your friends here turned to the AK PARTY Group and said they had a thief for a month.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0293par0589	There's a thief, isn't there?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0294par0590	Please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0289par0591	Look, now they're still telling the truth, and you're laughing at it. Mr. Koray Aydın, I was the head of your investigative commission, and we know what goes on there in the commission.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0295par0595	What's going on?
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0289par0596	In these budget talks, I would like Mr. Kilicdaroglu to answer to Mr. Prime Minister here, but as a president... [[Noises]] I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0600	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0297par0601	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0602	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0297par0603	Sir, in the speech of the speaker, I'd like to point out...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0604	No...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0297par0605	Your deputy president of the group insulted the Prime Minister. I want to give him an explanation.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0298par0606	He insulted the prime minister.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0607	No, sir, I mean, I've never seen anything like it.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0297par0608	That's what he said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0609	There's no such thing, please...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0299par0610	I didn't. If he says so, it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0611	If you'll excuse me, then I'll get the reports, if there's anything...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0300par0612	I didn't insult anyone.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0613	Now, anyway, let's hear from Mr. Atila Kaya, the Istanbul MP, who has a say against him, who will also speak against him.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0300par0615	Let me explain what I said.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0616	I'll bring the reports, if you have them.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0300par0617	But I want to explain what I said.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0618	I mean, let's just leave it at that.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0301par0619	Okay, let's get the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0620	So, now, you have something to say...
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0302par0621	Mr. President, I didn't insult you.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0296par0622	Okay, I'm sure your words have passed. Come on, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0302par0623	Mr. President, we haven't insulted anyone. Okay, fine. Wait a second... I said to the Prime Minister, you can't just call him a coupger, a prime minister can't say that. That's what I said. That's what I'm saying. Okay, fine. He's on the books.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0303par0632	Mr. Atila Kaya, the Istanbul MP, is about to go against you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0304par0635	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself over the entire central budget of 2015. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, as it is known, Mr. Erdogan, who now resides in his 1,150-bedroom palace, handed over the chairmanship to Mr. Davutoglu at his party's congress just a day before taking over the presidency, and then appointed him Prime Minister. First, Mr. Davutoglu, foreign policy adviser to Erdoğan, then Foreign Minister, is the architect of the most unsuccessful and unwanted foreign policy practices in the history of the republic. To understand this, they love us in Bosnia, they applaud us in Palestine, they thank us in Moray, they pray to us in Arakan. It is enough that we go beyond the rhetoric and see hell within our borders and millions of refugees within our borders.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0305par0639	Mr. President, there's too much noise.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0306par0640	Guys, please sit down or go backstage. We can't hear it over the noise.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0304par0641	He described the situation in which Mr. Davutoglu brought Turkish foreign policy in terms of his subsequent foreign policy, with the expression "valued loneliness." You are well aware that its definition of loneliness comes to a reality, and that its definition of its value is only one small consolation. We have come to understand that in his fantasy world, what he called the strategic depth was a blind well. Now, the new Secretary of State's job is both difficult and very easy. It's very difficult because it has to deal with the problems of a government who crawls on the ground and pick them up.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0306par0643	Folks on your feet, please, take your seats.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0304par0644	It's easy because the bar is so low that even the slightest positive change will be perceived as success. The first question I'm trying to remind you of the cost of its first political experience to Turkey is, Mr. Davutoglu's Prime Minister: Why did the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project choose such a failed minister to entrust the man of the nation in the 1.150-room palace, who he said he wanted to destroy when corruption investigations were launched against his ministers? Obviously, Mr. Davutoglu has been seen by his predecessor. So, what's entrusted to your belief in this myth? With their actions and practices, the closure of corruption investigations, the continued negotiations with the terrorist leader at the cost of the destruction of the unit structure, the removal of former collaborators, whom they call a parallel state structure, and the turning of the judiciary into a structure in connection with all of them. Dear MPs, the secret of the election of a failed minister to entrust the party's presidency and the prime minister's seats is accepted by him. The desire to continue the new Turkey he calls Turkey must be sought. On the one hand, I'll lie before you. On the other hand, I've done what the Prime Minister ordered. I've done by the Prime Minister's order. On the other hand, when he's trying to save a minister from accounting in the Supreme Court, who puts himself in the judge's place, who mocks our supreme religion, who says, "Take a minister of corruption, the man of the country's door," who says, "If there's not a clock on his arm, but a minister of honour," who says, "What I've done, I've done by the Prime Minister of Justice," who says, "We've lost the same thing in the case of the Minister of the Minister of Justice, who puts him in his place of the court, who puts himself in charge of the court." On the other hand, take the matter of the border." On the matter of the Prime Minister of the court, he says, take the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the Minister of the matter of the matter of the minister of the matter of the matter of the Minister of the court, take. Dear MPs, we have a new Prime Minister, but there is no new power, no new mentality, no new goals. We are not in a position to hope for new things, but for personal gains and ambitions, national interests and goals will be eliminated. Again, because of those who have made foreign policy an instrument of domestic policy, we will continue to learn with the most painful experience that the consequences of foreign policy will not be left out. We will see Palestine, Syria, Egypt, again in the declarations of rebellion and so-called autonomy, that those who say they see Egypt as their own internal work are incapable of seeing their own internal affairs. We're going to continue to witness that the possibilities that have been turned against the partisans have been turned into false blasphemy against the people in their sassy mouths. Since nothing will change in the current government, the law will continue to be slaughtered and the country will continue to reset. Dear MPs, the wisdom of the Prime Minister's preference by his predecessor is clear. Mr. Davutoglu was not elected to lead the new Turkey of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Because the architect of the new Turkey, whose borders are drawn by corruption, unlawfulness, and negotiations with terrorists, has not handed over power. And since Mr. Davutoglu is the one who knows this best, he has identified himself not with a statesman in the establishment of the Ottomans, but with a leader, and I am David Al-Saiser of the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, if you pay attention to the pores of the Prime Minister, you will find that a concept has been brought forward in particular. When negotiations with terrorists fail, the Prime Minister suddenly thinks of this concept as a public order. The Prime Minister has just discovered the concept of public order, as if the administration in one country has another job. While roads have been cut off for years, while terrorists have been doing so-called security checks, while flags have been lowered and the Ataturk busts and schools burned, while the terrorist organization, which they consider a solution partnership, has formed their own courts and collected tax money from the people, the concept of public order, which they have never thought of, has been new to them for some reason. However, the Prime Minister uses the concept in a way that doesn't suit academic titrine, as if it's only about safety. Those familiar with the terminology of law know that public order, which is a much more general concept than he thinks, includes security, but beyond that, public benefit, public conscience, and general morality. So the money in the shoeboxes, the money boxes in the bedrooms, the $700,000 hours in the arms, the fatwas that legitimize bribes, and the pool media, the people who call themselves the man of the million, harm public order as much as the ones that threaten security. In his dreams, Mr. Davutoglu, a professor of ideological obsession and blindness at a point where he equates with an ordinary militant, said he spoke to Hegel. Hegel clearly did not warn Mr. Davutoglu about the trick of the mind, an important concept of historical philosophy. Or would he ever be in the position to serve the destruction of the republic when he thought he was serving the goods of the Ottomans? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to finish with a reminder from here to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister says once again, learn from history the fate of governments, sultans, rulers, leaders who pursue state resources, who distribute state authorities to their ranks, who make laws in their own interests, who use the power of the state to take away the rights and laws of those who are not of their own, who rule in luxury and glory, and I salute the High Council with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-10sit03spe0307par0653	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Kaya. Congressmans, talks have been completed on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Now, I'm going to vote for the transfer of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law to the provisions of the 2013 Central Management Law. I submit to your votes that the provisions of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill be passed: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the Articles of the 2013 Central Management Computation Act shall be passed: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. Thus, the transfer of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill to the 2013 Central Management Computation Act was approved. Now, in order, I'm going to have them read the 1st article of each bill: TEMPLOYMENT FOR 2015 Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) Turkey's Lira, 464,163,399. B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 53,069,588,000 Turkish liras, 3.212.692,000 Turkish liras have been funded by regulatory and auditory institutions on ruler C (III). CONGRATULATIONS ON THE LAW OF MY MANAGEMENT OF 2013 MADDE 1-1 (1) 663 is included in Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the 2013 Central Management Budget Law (A). A) (I) Turkish Lira, 396,705,004,350 to public administrations under the general budget on the ruler, B) (III) private budgetary administrations include 45,002,167,100 Turkish liras, C) (III) editor-in-chief and auditory institutions have been granted 2,363,741.000 Turkish liras. (2) The central administration, which has been added over the year by the power vested in by the Laws, is added to Law 5018, as shown in the final statements of the expense account; A) (I) is a total of 397,275,131,828,49 Turkish Lira, which is part of the general budget for public administrations in 2013. B) (III) Special budgetary administrations total the budget costs in 2013 57,090,735,703,98 Turkish liras, C) (III) is a total of 2,430,916,918,27 Turkish liras, totaling the budget costs of regulator and auditory institutions in the ruler of 2013. It's done as a matter of fact. (3) The central management console budget costs totalling 408,224,559,856,04 Turkish Lira. Members of parliament, since the budget bill and the final bill of account law shall be held together under Article 164 of the Constitution, the meeting of the central management budgets of 2015 and the final management accounts of 2013 will begin tomorrow. Under the decision taken, according to the programme, it is Thursday, December 11, 2014, that tomorrow at 11 p.m., to discuss the budget and final accounts of the institutions. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
