tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici (Ibrahim Binici) who asked for a comment on the events of Sivas on July 2nd. Here you go, Mr. Rider.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0002par0007	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the Sivas massacre. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear friends, tomorrow is July 2nd, the 21st anniversary of the 35 lives that hate has been burned alive in Sivas. And not twenty-one years, and not twenty-one thousand years, but the pain of mankind that was burned in Sivas will not easily leave our hearts and our consciences. And they made candles to light the darkness a little, and burned them in Sivas. The play on the stage was almost a repeat of the usual black stops of our historical process. First, we needed a hot crowd ready to think that their religious emotions were being tampered with. This crowd was very much present in Maraş, Malatya, and Çorum, in every corner of Asia Minor, and in Sivas. The rest of the sneaky plan to be carried out was now a work in progress. Before the intended false hell, meetings were held in mosques, and unsigned declarations had already been distributed, ending for the sake of God. And then the town's turnout line was going to go by the hand of religion. There were a few jerks who needed to say it. You didn't have to be such a deep hole to find these three-and-a-half punks. In the end, there was a hell of a lot of fire in the state's box of honors. Our art, our poetry, our novel, our line, our reed, our word, our language, our culture, our total existence, and our faith were thrown into the attache. Dear friends, perhaps for the first time since the fire came, Sivas was ashamed of himself. For the water that was dry in Kerbalah, and for the fire that he could not put out, he was ashamed this time in Sivas. Mankind was ashamed of those who were human and burned people in Sivas. Those who were saved did not rejoice, and they were ashamed of their own salvation because their friends were dead. Years later, justice was embarrassed by the statute of limitations. In Sivas, the fire was ashamed, and the water was ashamed, and mankind was ashamed, and justice was ashamed, and the great state was not ashamed. Yes, there was no shame in the state and the judiciary that watched 35 citizens burn alive for eight hours. It's an isolated incident, severe provocation. It's a turn-on that got the public all worked up. I watched things very closely, and the security forces must have done everything they could. There is no conflict between the people and the people, there is no conflict between the public and the security forces, there is no conflict between the two groups, there is no loss of life because of the burning of a hotel. The mentality that said, "It should have been ashamed by now." Thankfully, outside the hotel, our people were unharmed. The prime minister of the period who made the statement was not ashamed. The people reacted to the popular provocations of Aziz Nesin. The Minister of Interior was not ashamed. The strangest of all, some of the Sivas defendants married, married, married, went to the army, even died, but they could not find or capture it. Moreover, the lawyers of the Sivas perpetrators sat down as MPs at this time. Dear friends, shamelessness has not only been limited by that period, but it has been brought to this day. The decision of the statute of limitations in the case of the Sivas massacre of now Prime Minister Sivas has been decided for our nation's sake and good for our country. I say good and evil shall be yours, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0003par0013	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atcı who wants to talk about the problems of children who were forced to stay with their mother in prisons. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0004par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, tomorrow is July 2nd. The 21st anniversary of the Sivas Madimak massacre. The pain of our souls burned there is still in our hearts. We'll pay our debt to them when we ask the people who burned them and the people who burned them, and I bow before their memories. Dear friends, imprisoned and convicted children in prison, I'd like to pass on to you the problems of children who have to stay with their mothers and children who have to stay with their mothers, and offer you our solution proposals. I salute everyone who advocates and does not abuse children's rights. As of May 31, 2014, the MPs are in prison between 12 and 17 years of age, 1,141 prisoners, 498 prisoners, 1,639 children. It's a shame for all of us. They're not criminals. The child can't be guilty, it can't be. If there's a criminal, it's a state that can't protect them, it's a family that's responsible for the child around them, so it's all of us. Dear friends, one of the two words that doesn't come together with the child is the bride and the other one is the prison. As we define the relationship between prison and child, we can talk about the two main problems. One: children who have to stay with their mothers, children who have to stay with their mothers, and children whose mothers are out in prison themselves. Two: children driven to crime. Children who have to stay with their mother suffer with their mother's guilt. I want our mother-in-laws, our father-in-laws, to listen to me more carefully. In addition, the mother is also being punished for restricting her parental rights, except for her legal punishment. It's not fair or human. The children who stay with their mother live in separate dramas, as babies with pacifiers and the mothers of infants who stay out because the conditions of prison are not good. The mother has the same rights as other prisoners, the same open and closed conversation. However, only once a month - even if the mother breastfeeds her child - can have open vision and smell her child, and once a week she can wave at her child from afar. Is this the way of God, or is this a human being? If this mother is breastfeeding her child, shouldn't we all be ashamed of this situation? Besides, there are only 40 mothers and children in Ankara. For the mother's love, mother's milk and other needs of children, this great House can easily meet and arrange, every day. All children can be picked up and taken to your mother's. Children stay with their mother until they are 6 years old, then sent to Child Protective Services. Experts are screaming it's not true. According to experts, children should not stay in prison after 3 years of age. Our proposal is that mothers in this situation should benefit more broadly from supervised freedom and detention. That's easy, too. We also looked at the conditions of the lives of children living with their mother in prisons, and they're very troubled. They sleep in bed with their mother, it's wrong, it's dangerous. Mother, it's a problem for the children who stay with you to eat and feed. Mom buys food for her kid instead of regular food so he can eat candy, biscuits, fruity yogurt, and then he shares his own food with his kid. So, they're both starving. And to your attention, dear lawmakers, our government collects the cost of the food of the children in prison and then collects it from the family, which is wrong. Children who are driven to crime must be trained. Children's prisons must be closed immediately. Because in Posant, Ceyhan, and many other places, we have seen that the government cannot protect the children entrusted to it. The violence that children experience in prisons by the time they arrive at the educational home is truly remarkable, and it must be resolved immediately. Look, the prison for our 1,639 children, with the money we pay the people who work there, we can train these kids very comfortably. We've made a motion to investigate all these problems. You need to consider this motion of investigation immediately, and we need to solve these problems together. That's what we owe. With all due respect...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to the Syrian and Şanlıurfa MP Abdulkerim Gök, who came to Turkey due to internal confusion in Syria and asked for the importance of the holy Ramazan month. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Once again, I congratulate you on your Ramadan, wishing that Ramazan would bring peace to the Islamic world, to humanity. Dear lawmakers, once again, we are at the height of a month of kindness, brotherhood, love, conversation, cooperation, almost at its peak. That's why we keep people from many parts of the world, from many countries, in our country, as part of being a great state. In particular, you know, we've had our Syrian brothers and sisters in our country for over a year. Here, we have a total of 1 million people in our country, including 220,000 in tent cities, which are now registered in AFAD. With the resources of our own country and the resources of our national budget, so far, with 2 quadrillion old dollars, $2 billion new money, we've spent a budget on these brothers. It's a need to be a great state, nice and clean. In our country, if there is a need for institutional identity, the Kızılay, the AFAD, is particularly involved in these activities. But let me also say that in eastern and southeast Turkey, especially in the border provinces, there are large organizations that our people have exhibited, which are a great example to world organisations, such as human rights and organizations called human rights. One of them is a charity in Şanlıurfa, which includes 52 civil societies, which means it is called the Humanitarian Helping Platform. We congratulate our hearts, they add their nights to their day, and they continue to help our brothers and sisters in Syria without mercy. Let me also say that we, our brothers from Syria, are hosting them in our country as a need to become great states without questioning their language, their religion, their color, their race, their identity. If so, we will continue to share half of our bread with our brothers and sisters. Because in our time of power, politics met a new concept, which became called politics of values.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0007par0045	They're begging and begging at mosque doors.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0006par0046	Therefore, we continue and continue our collaborations by making peace with our neighbors in the politics of values, by fulfilling the great title he received from history, and by carrying out his responsibilities. I'd like to point out that right now we're having these Syrian brothers in our country, and we're hearing some criticism, some negatives. I mean, some of our friends, especially at the security point, offer their reviews, but it's important to say that we're making a date. I'd like to express it to the descendants of our descendants, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the rulings of the EC PARTI, the Prime Minister, the President, your Parliament, as I travel through tent cities outside of Şanlıurfa. Why? Because in the past, there have been some missteps in history, and now there are people who live together. Alhamdulillah, this country has left those wrongs behind. For him, wherever he is in the first place in the world, if he's faced with persecution, then the need to be a great state, to take refuge in our country, whatever it takes, as a whole nation, as a government, as a government, we're helping these people, we're going to keep doing it. To the spirit of the holy moon, which means blessed moon, I especially want to be supported in every part of our country, I salute Parliament and our great nation.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0050	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0009par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0052	We'll be on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0009par0054	My dear President, the speaker said: "They are criticizing those who come from Syria. " Yes, the chief critic of the reviews...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0055	Mr. Tanal, this is off-the-tops, not on your agenda...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0009par0056	I'm sorry. There is no room in the hospital, and there is no room in the citizens of Şanlıurfa.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0058	You have no say, no application, sir, please.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0009par0059	At Şanlıurfa, citizens can't find water now, without electricity.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0060	Thank you. Yeah, we're moving on. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0010par0063	I mean, we need to find a solution to our citizen's problems.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0064	Mr. Tanal, under the Civil Code, only a minister on behalf of the government can answer off the agenda. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0011par0066	Mr. President, is this the way to be president? Any misinformation said here, the MP will take it out and fix it. I mean, listen to a word.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0008par0067	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0011par0068	Listen, listen, listen, listen. You do that. Just listen, I'm telling you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The body of Kadir Sevim, who was buried in the area of the subway work in the capital city of Ankara on the morning of June 22, 2012, was reached at the subway construction site near MEB 15 hours later. The fact that Kadir Sevim's body was dragged a mile [ km] under water is clearly evidence that the subway work, the Dikmen creek and other subterranean waters were unrehabilitated and continued. After the collapse, 50 trucks were poured into the rock area and tried to fill it. The density of the spilled material also tells us about the size of the dent. Publicity waited for the statement of Ankara Metropolitan Mayor and Transport Minister on the issue, but four days later, Melih Gökçek announced that they had handed over the subway lines, leaving the responsibility to the Transport Ministry. "This and similar events can be expected again, " said the minister at 26/6/2012. That's the way it is in the world, it's normal." With a serious confession, he signaled possible dents. In fact, it was Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and Melih Gökçek's idea of municipalism that collapsed that day. The Ankara Central Transport Plan was adopted in 1994 at the Ankara Metropolitan Council. The plan envisioned subways according to the development zones of Ankara; the Kızılay-Tayway route is open to population density, where public buildings have been moved to this area, thinking that the subway will be made. Kızılay - The entire ground study and project of the Teaway subway has been prepared according to its route and stations This project was put on the shelf with Melih Gökçek, which was thought to solve traffic problems on the highway route with the construction of the Akay Crossroad and the expansion of the Eskişehir road, and was brought to the attention of the extension of the ANKARAY line from the Institute to the Teaway when it was misunderstood. After 2001, the Westville - Sincan, Nation-Keciören lines began construction of the subway in the rough, and after a while the idea of an extension of the ANKARAY to the Teaway was restored to the Red-road subway project. Melih Gökçek insisted on building three subway lines at the same time, despite all warnings, and kept Ankara's people distracted by unreal dates. These three subway lines have been neglected for years, and the construction has been abandoned to decay. Starting in 2006, Gravity was in a position to express that it was impossible to build subway lines with Metropolitan sources. The government of the AKP, which was unable to provide funds for the subway, was able to privatise the subsidiary of natural gas market law with the transfer of natural gas in 2007 to the EGO's property and business company, CENTGAZ. This envisions the liquidation of Metropolitan City's debts and the transfer of funds to subways. The privatisation of the PresidentGAZ, which means that it will bring $3 billion in revenues, has not happened, even though it has been tendered three times. This time, it has been decided that the construction of subways, which have not moved a step, will be transferred to the Ministry of Transport by the decision of the Council of Ministers, dated 25/10/2010. The Ankara Metropolitan Municipality later handed over the construction of the subways to the Ministry of Transport under protocol carried out with the Ministry of Transport on 25/4/2011. Since this disaster may happen again in the centre of the capital, and the size of the cave-in has led to a public crisis of anxiety and trust, public awareness of the subway construction process remains a great need to be comforted, and to know the measures to be taken. Public opinion is in need of learning whether or not underground waters and streams under the subway route have been reformed, whether crude construction has been done in accordance with standards. For these reasons, we demand the opening of parliamentary research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Administration. [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Sinop]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İzmir]] 19) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Most of our coastal municipalities in our country are summer home applications, and the population of the summer is five to 10 times more touristy. For example, the winter population in Didim district of Aydın reached about 50,000 in the summer, to 400,000 in the summer, while the winter population in Kuşadası district was around 90% in the winter population, to 600,000 in the summer. This also increases services that need to be provided by municipalities. The growing population in our coastal regions during summers makes it difficult for transportation, cleaning, police, public relations, park-garden, culture and entertainment services. The growing population of our coastal municipalities during the summer season has increased problems, including the lack of services, when they receive a share of general tax budget revenues from the Bank of Provinces, according to the winter population. It is not possible for our coastal municipalities, which are expected to serve with a structured share distribution system based on the winter population, to meet the increasing demand for service. In this regard, the TBM Civil Charter 104 and 105 are concerned with the problems and problems of our coastal municipalities, which are forced to work under poor budget shares and under difficult circumstances. Articles and Article 98 of the Constitution. In accordance with the clause, we submit the Council's investigation. [[Aydın]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 6) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 14) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 15) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to ensure that public officials meet their obligations fully and without problems, we offer and provide the Constitution's right to address the public administration, to increase public confidence, to inform public administration about the behavior that it has the right to expect from public officials, to raise public service standards and to establish measures to prevent public officials from violating their duties, torture, abuse, rape, service, and such crimes. [[Kars]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Public service is one of the most fundamental elements of social understanding. At the same time, it is imperative that social life be maintained. Public service is also the source of government and administration. The execution of such services is possible by public officials, either by himself or by private initiative under close supervision of a public institution. While public services in Turkey are more state-owned, the state's idea of public service is now almost manifesting as public order, security and dignity. As the state gradually withdraws its hand from public service, it also reduces its control over public services offered by private initiative. He does not operate control mechanisms in official or private areas, he ignores public officials' arbitrary attitudes, such as killing, abuse of office, torture, abuse, rape, and depriving them of service. He protects the public officials who have been filed a complaint against him. In this case, it is not possible to meet a certain standard in public service. There is not one public institution in Turkey that lacks public service, torture, abuse, opportunity equality -- language, religion, philosophical belief, political thinking, race, age, physical disability, and gender discrimination -- that does not exist. The government's most basic task is to conduct public service activities. However, this activity continues to contain problems that are extremely problematic and have great problems, and, at times, great disasters. The negatives of such services have been increasing recently. The reason it increases is because public officials are protected in case of defects, errors, and crimes. N. The attitude against a girl named C being raped by dozens of public officials proves it. 15 prisoners have been burned to death in Urban Prison and five prisoners who have been taken from Van to İstanbul in a prison vehicle that has been carried out in prison have been unable to open the doors of five prisoners who have been burned alive to death, torture and abuse in prisons; women being harassed and raped in police stations, children being raped in schools, children being raped in reform houses, in shelters, in workplaces, in private homes, the creepy rapes and violence of dozens of people in mass demonstration walks, gas flares, pepper gas gas, firearms, and fire responses; the loss of lives of women in police stations; thousands of law enforcement officers who have been subjected to non-instructions, and thousands of non-existctions. It is also embarrassing for public officials and state control to have arrested children raped in the Posanti Prison, which gives all Turkey the creeps. With so many problems in the field of public service, resignation or dismissal are not seen even in sub-government agencies from the top authorities of the state. Although the rate of neglect and intentional crime in public services is so high, control and trial are at a level of zero. This states that either the government has difficulty controlling this area, that it cannot listen to itself, or that public services are acting in the direction that the government approves, even the government's statements, discrimination, and approval. For whatever reason, the government is responsible for this painting of shame. Turkey cannot continue to live with this painting of shame. Therefore, public space must be reorganized, a continuous and impartial control mechanism should be operated, ending public officials' comfort in crime.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0012par0225	It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women's Opportunities, the Public Economics Initiative and non-political party members of the European Union's Compliance Commissions also fall into 1 membership. Lawmakers who want to run for these commissions, who are not members of the political party group, are on Monday (July 7, 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Care: the 20/06/2014 writing of the Committee of the Will and 57747403/447. The petition commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Care: 10/06/2014 and 59244875.130 of the Commission for Review of Human Rights. 99-117. Article 182079. The Human Rights Commission has also had a request for Turkey's Grand National Assembly to work during its holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Care: The chairman of the Women's Association of Opportunity Commission, dated 17/06/2014, and 90603329-130. Article 05-182943. The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has also had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work during its holidays. This request, which is favoured by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 25th Amendment of the Civil Code. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkish Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek and his delegation will visit Norway to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is dated 28/3/1990 and is submitted to the General Assembly's proposals on the regulation of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/276) I respectfully submit that my original Law Proposal, according to the Civil Code, is held in the General Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It was presented on the grounds of my proposal for a amendment to Law of the Security Service 3201, dated 12/06/1937. I'll give you what you need. 06/01/2012 Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Topstone. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0013par0280	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn oath to express my views on the 12/06/37 date and the amendment to Security Service Law 3201, which I hereby salute the High Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with this proposal, the members of law enforcement are asked to join sports associations and the institutions established by the families of martyrs and veterans of law enforcement. Strangely, while we are discussing the membership of law enforcement members in the established associations, the unions established by law enforcement officers in countries run by democracy continue with no obstacle to their rights and demands and their social responsibilities. For example, the Swedish police union was established in 1903. Despite court rulings, we continue to expel and release the founders and executives of the union (EMNIT-SEN) established 100 years after the Swedish police union. Dear friends have made their intentions clear in the EMNITH-SEN Charter. What's he saying? ▪ We want the protection and development of the basic rights and freedoms of personnel regarding the safety class. We want police officers, the police, to be governed by the principle of human rights and the rule of law. He says we want to use public safety, safety and safety services equally to all people, regardless of language, religion, race, sect and political opinion, and to prevent all privileges and discrimination. ▪ We want to provide a life level worthy of human dignity with suitable wages and social benefits and better working conditions and professional dignity, and they say that they are seeking to defend a lot of such human and modern values. But can such a union be carried by a government whose autocratic and oppressive practices have made it a rule to rule the country? No, because in the environment of a police union like this, the police can't slaughter people who perform using their constitutional rights. The police can't treat their people as enemies on the orders of the rulers. In Eskişehir, Ali Ismail Korkmaz can't relieve stress by hitting him with sticks in the street. I'm amazed at the patience of a prime minister who says he can't be an attack machine because they don't do more to the cop who kills his people and children. The police who killed Uður Kurt (who went to an acquaintance's funeral) will not be housed for a day if such a union exists within the police force. 1,700 police officers can't be deported from place to place in one day. With a word out of the prime minister's lips, a union like this, it can't be done. The police are people, and they are our children. The instructions that turned them into killing machines and then drove them to suicide can't be fulfilled if there's a police union. Dear lawmakers, while some police are being turned into a killing machine against the opposition of the government, they kill Berkin Jonan, who goes to buy bread with marbles in his pocket, while the country's Prime Minister tells a story about another boy at a meeting explaining the President. During the mayor's candidacy, a 7-8 - year - old girl in one of Istanbul's poor neighborhoods said that she had two bracelets in her hand. I've never been able to forget those eyes. He says, Mr. Prime Minister. Now, I'm asking Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our presidential candidate, do you dare to see the smile, his childhood, his lifelike look in the picture of Berkin, whose police killed him when you went to buy bread with the marbles in your pocket? Do you ever think about what you saw when the mother of Berkin, who you booed at the rally site, looked into your eyes? Can you look into that boy's eyes when the families of the Musul consulate are taken prisoner, how he looks at the mother of the little boy who's with him, how he looks for a cure, how he's under duress... when he's standing inside the terrorists? Mr. Prime Minister, the ban on the capture of the consul has been imposed on the Musul consulate. It's said to be an intentional ban. Our consulate members, our officers there, our officers, no one knows what's going on, no one knows about the families. We can't help but wonder if it's a matter of negotiation. I say it will be understood the day the Prime Minister greets them with ceremony, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0014par0292	Thank you. It's Orhan Süpı who wants to speak as a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Straight.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0015par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a commitment to those who have lost their disability and children, the spouses and children of martyrs and veterans of the police, and to the aid organizations of their relatives for martyrs and veterans, to be members of their trusts. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, police in all democratic law states, the door to justice, the door to justice. So, if we really want democracy in our country, if we really want law, once, we really have to fix the police's level of education, economic and social living standards. If you try to act with a cop who's not in a mood for morale, it's obvious what's going to happen, and you've hurt justice in the first place. So I think it's very important that the police work on their neutrality, their fitness and principles, and that democracy in the country also resides. My dear friends, what is the situation of our police in our country, I simply want to remind you: Look, in all democratic countries, police have the right to form unions, but in Turkey, police have tried to form unions, and what has happened to them is what happened to the cooked chicken. The founders of the union were immediately expelled from the profession, and they were dismissed from the profession, being called terrorists. Now, imagine, the day before you put a gun in his hand, you put him in charge of protecting the country, he's on the street, and the next day he's a terrorist. I think it's become a habit, and in the December 17th operations, the police who were heroes the day before, who had written epics in the Travel, were suddenly declared parallel, a traitor. However, those officers came to the state's most important institutions a day ago with the appointment of the government, and they had certain record investigations; if they were terrorists, why did you hand over weapons to these people and hand over the security of the country? And I want to ask you, since these cops are parallelists, they work against the government, where did you send them? You took it from Istanbul - you sent it to Hakkari, isn't Hakkari the land of this land? You mean the police can't be parallel in Istanbul and Hakkari could be parallel in Istanbul? If these guys are guilty, you're gonna throw these guys out of business, you're gonna get their gun, or if they're not guilty, you're gonna have to defend these guys' rights. Dear MPs, look, there are 34,000 police-assigned government vehicles in Istanbul. So the opposite is that 6,000 cops drive. Is this the police department bus company? So yesterday, we were complaining, we were saying, "Do soldiers have to paint boots, the pasha's postal?" Now, what do we do? The police can drive the police commissioner, take his wife to the hairdresser, take the kid to school, we don't tell them anything. So if in one country, the average cop commits suicide once a week, we have to investigate the motives, my dear friends. The motions we're making on this matter, the motions for research, they're being rejected all the time. Does he not want to wonder why the police died, why he committed suicide? These things must be investigated. Again, I'd like to point out that the police have a charity organization, like the soldiers in OYAK. Every soldier who retires from OYAK receives 50-60 billion dollars, and when the police retire, they can't get a penny from this POLSAN. Why can't he take it? Because there's no telling what POLSAN's money is. They have a very serious partnership, they've co-operated with very serious firms, and they have a very serious income, because 120,000 cops pay about $100 a month, friends, but it's never clear where that money went. The cops don't know that, and neither do the law enforcement guys. My dear friends here, who are supposedly required by the government to investigate the issue of this POLSAN, and find out where the missing $465m is. Yeah, well, like I said, we have to improve the working conditions of the police, but that's what I'm saying for the state police. The police of the government, the ones who beat and killed Ali Ishmael, the ones who killed Ethem Sarsuluk, and the ones who did such things with political ambition and a grudge, of course, I don't include that, and I want to make it clear to them that when the day and the time comes, we will surely answer. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit01spe0016par0307	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit02spe0016par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. İzmir MP Oktay Vural has an objection to Article 73 of the Civil Code. I promise you for five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit02spe0017par0005	Thank you. Mr. President, on 26 June 2014, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan presented the bill to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and on the same day the Parliamentary Assembly sent it to the Interior Commission as the main commission and to the Constitution and Justice Commission as a commission for Social Integration. According to Article 73 of the Civil Code, the legislation must contain specific issues, which must be made clear what its purpose is and what its objectives should be set up to accomplish. First of all, the bill of this transfer was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey today with the signature of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. First of all, I think it lacks the legitimacy of this bill to be made a bill by the execution of this weapon used by the PKK terrorist organization. On the other hand, this bill was to be extradited directly by the Parliamentary Presidency because it did not comply with the minimum measures required by this law. Because, indeed, this bill gives the Council of Ministers a power that does not receive its source from the Constitution, which in this case, should be given to the Council of Ministers by the Council of Ministers, and should be rejected because it does not include the procedures and the principles that should be in a bill. In this regard, the transfer was directly wrong. This transfer must be extradited to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan by the Parliamentary Presidency. A bill of law does not come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by the will and request of the terrorist organisation. It is not the legal, administrative and criminal responsibility of individuals, especially when all actions of the administration are open to judicial control, in accordance with the measures required by the Constitution. In that sense, a law bill, which has been destroyed, should not include the property of the bill, nor should this bill be brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the weapon of the PKK terrorist organization, but at the same time, it should be made by the Prime Minister directly because it has been removed from the legal security bases required by the Constitution and the legal state of law, in terms of the framework of those who have committed crimes so far, and the freedom to commit crimes after that. In this regard, we believe that this bill, which does not constitute a bill of law within the measure required by the law, the Constitution, and the Civil Charter, is incomplete and lacking in these measures, and in this regard, it must be returned directly to the government. In this regard, the transfer to the Interior Commission is also extremely wrong because the government has stated that it will directly commit and commit crimes according to the Constitution and the Law, and that it will commit these crimes. In this regard, in order for the Constitution to be halted at the level of enterprise of illegal business and actions, it is necessary to send back this bill, just as the Speaker of Parliament did not open the proceedings here for the review of lawmakers and sent back some of the proceedings on the first day. This transfer to the Internal Affairs Commission is absolutely incompatible with the Civil Code provisions and the Constitutional provisions. According to the Civil Code provisions, this bill, which does not comply with the measures of the bill, should be extradited by the Parliamentary Presidency and should not have a meeting on this issue before it becomes a statement of will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As a result of this objection, the President has a decision to make. In this regard, it's not really about the Interior Commission, but it's about the Constitutional Commission as well, and it's about the fact that it should be. I'm conveying my objection to the Deputy Speaker. I also say in this framework that the President of the Commission must renegotiate his request for this meeting and renew his call for a meeting after the assessment of this objection. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit02spe0018par0017	Thank you. Members of parliament, this opinion of İzmir MP Oktay Vural will be evaluated by the presidency. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Gender Equality and Women's Enhancing Unit (UN Women) between the United Nations Women's Office of Europe and Central Asia in Istanbul, as well as the Women's Equality Commission and Foreign Commission Reports. The commission and the government are in place. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 609 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The establishment of the United States of Turkey's Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the United States of Turkey and the establishment of the United States. The signing of the UN Women's European and Central Asia Regional Office between the United Nations Equality and Women's Enhancing Unit (UN Women) signed in New York on February 28, 2014 was approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ba-kans governs these laws. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the open vote did not have enough meetings. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 110th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The open vote of Law Bill 609 was not enough for the meeting. Now I'm going to repeat the open vote of the bill with an electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I declare the conclusion of the open vote made by the Court of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Gender Equality and Women's Enhancing Unit (UN Female Europe and Central Asia Regional Office in Istanbul: Number of votes used : 210 [[x]] Wish Up Muhammad Riza Yalçınkaya Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place, in accordance with the Convention on the Status of Non-Nationals. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 90 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's still a matter of understanding that we should agree to allow ourselves to be associated with the status of the citizens of the United States. MADDE 1- (1) It was appropriate for us to join the Convention on the Status of the Unauthorised Persons on September 28, 1954, which was adopted at the Full Official Representatives Conference organised by the United Nations Economic and Social Council. Mustafa Ali Balbay, İzmir MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0019par0027	Congressmans, I salute your committee. I've read the draft law and the Foreign Commission Report that we are eligible to join the Convention on the Status of Non-Nationals. As a journalist in the past, I would like to share with you my thoughts on this contract as a person who has traveled many countries around the world, including the surrounding countries, Iraq, Syria, Iran, and especially in the Balkan countries, and has seen many people yearn for their homes and suffer in foreign lands. But, of course, I would also like to share with you how the current topic, especially the issues in Syria and Iraq, affects Turkey in this context.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0020par0029	Mr. President, let's have the conversation outside. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0019par0030	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0021par0031	Mr. Balbay, just a moment... Congressmans, there's a big hum in the General Assembly, the speaker's speech is not heard. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0034	Members of parliament, especially what happened in Syria and Iraq and Turkey's foreign policy appear to be directly linked to the contract on the people we are talking about, and Turkey is under heavy responsibility. Turkey's foreign policy has led to the rise of non-natives in environmental countries. You too have witnessed that those who migrated from Syria, especially in large cities -- in Ankara, in İzmir, are now part of the centers of our medium-sized cities. The fact that Turkey did not contribute to creating an environment that allowed the citizens of those countries to live in peace and security in neighbouring countries -- in fact, the opposite -- in neighbouring countries, which now supports separate groups of states within states -- is the same as in ISIS today -- because we support the unresolved groups in the near future -- based on this contract -- is that Turkey is following a policy that has led to the growth of citizens in the environment, and in the continuation of this policy, what kind of life these peoples will now be able to live from this country to a healthy shelter in this country. Now, as we look at the latest news in a week, we all know that a prison is being evacuated and Syrian immigrants are staying there, and even in slums that are going to be destroyed, where Syrian immigrants are now sitting in slums that should be destroyed within the scope of urban transformation. So in this sense, Turkey is following a policy in the geography around us that leads not to solve the problem of the homeless, but unfortunately to the birth of new people. Congressmans, in Turkey's history, we've brought everyone from environmental countries, environmental geography into our system in the countries we've established in these lands. This year, the Caucasus migrations, referred to as the 150th year, are composed of the origins of about 6 million of our citizens from the Caucasus, from Crimea, from Cerkesia, from the surrounding geography, with a very crude assessment. Again, we have about 15 million citizens of Balkan origin with a rough figure. I mean, we're a country in environmental countries that knows how to embrace people when they're in trouble and accept them as our citizens. But we have never followed a policy, a geography that has caused confusion in those geographys or civil peace to turn into a worse civil war. However, today's events in Iraq and Syria especially fuel this. Regarding the Turkmen in Telafer, Telafer, the late Prime Minister, while sharing their suffering, some of the Turkmen there are Shii, some of Sunni. Congressmans, of course, today's Prime Minister announced his candidacy for the presidency in the morning and announced with a long assessment that he would embrace both Turkey and in a very important part of his speech he used the definition of "wes" and "they." We're on the side of brotherhood, they're on the side of this. We're on this side, they're on this side. We're okay, but who are the MPs?
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0023par0039	I guess you didn't really listen to the speech.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0040	Here, of course, I would like to share with you a little bit of black humor, which would be very helpful to Turkey. Because if these people and they continue their politics, many of our citizens in Turkey will regret that they will feel unpatriotic. They'll probably apply to the United Nations by taking advantage of the law at that time.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0023par0041	We are the people, they are the guardians.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0042	And just as we want to take advantage of all rights in the country in which we live, we want to take advantage of all rights that this country's citizens, especially religion, worship, education, health care. They'll say, "Like this logic," and they'll say, "If the citizens of the Republic of Turkey continue to do so today's practices, we are the Prime Minister's people and they are the ones."
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0023par0043	You've got it wrong, you haven't been listening to the Prime Minister. We're the people, they're the guardians, you got it wrong, your first speech, your first speech. First time you're talking to the Prime Minister, wait a minute!
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0044	I'm afraid half the citizens in this country will feel unpatriotic in the event that the policies that this community is going to pursue by splitting them in half. And the people who feel that they have no country will apply to the United Nations and say, "We want to live in this country as citizens of this country."
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0024par0045	You're the ones who discriminate over the years.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0046	Mr. Prime Minister, instead of clarifying what our fellow lawmakers from the AKP ranks are doing right now...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0025par0047	The guardians he calls them, say to the coupters, "They are the ones."
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0048	...the same logic of the president's position, the same discrimination assessments have given my assessments the right.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0026par0049	You've always done that.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0025par0050	Get out of here, you're discriminated against!
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0051	In the Prime Minister's statement this morning, I counted an important chapter from beginning to end...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0025par0052	You don't stand for the Prime Minister's views!
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0022par0053	...the majority of them were us and them. If you are going to be Prime Minister of 76 million in this country, if you are going to be Prime Minister of 76 million, you will not claim that those who are not of yours are a tyrant.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0025par0054	They're coupgers, we're the people.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0027par0055	Mr. Bronze, please don't interfere!
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0025par0056	Tell me about the journals.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0028par0057	Tell me about the thieves, the thieves.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0029par0058	Anyone who isn't one of you can claim guilt and bucu, and then you can create people in this country who feel spiritually unencumbered. So, in this law, we want to find the way out of this, right now within the scope of this international contract, and ask the United Nations for help, and we want to live in this country as citizens of this country. Because, starting today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the applications for the presidency will be over. Yes, for the first time, the people will elect the President, the President of 76 million, but unlike the previous ones, I wish that the person who will be attending the Chankaya Mansion would look for this contract and not watch any action. There will be no more daily, no more journals in Turkey. I hope that the person who will go to the Çankaya Mansion will not separate the citizens of those countries when he talks about the surrounding countries. NO ONE will keep a diary anymore. I wish there were no more paintings for the people, for the people, for the people of that country, that would say, "Are we citizens of this country?" Congressmans, tomorrow is the anniversary of the Sivas incident. The relatives of those people who were burned there never planted a seed of hatred and hatred in this country, but while people who were burned there tried to make sure that this never happened again in this country, they often felt the need to ask the government's rulers: "Are we not citizens of this country or not citizens of this country?" they asked. I wish that Sivas would never happen again. My respects to all of you, members of lawmakers, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0030par0066	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0031par0067	The religious people have asked the same question for years, Mr. Balbay. The religious, the headscarf asked the same thing. The Prime Minister just expressed them.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0032par0068	Shame on you! Are you defending murderers?
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0031par0069	For years, the religious people asked the same question, the headscarf asked: "Are we not citizens of this country? Where were you then?
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0033par0070	Congressmans, please... Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who has asked on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0034par0073	Mr. President, I have received word from the esteemed lawmakers that we will be eligible to join the Status of the Non-Nationals in accordance with the Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. I salute you all. Dear friends, in fact, wars between wars, civil wars, or other countries are the main causes of all migrations in the world. As a result of these wars, many people migrate to places they see more secure than their territory. As a matter of fact, we've been seeing this sort of thing all through history. A friend of ours has just spoken here, not only in their time of power, but in the time when Turkey, the Turkish nation, has been supporting and protecting people in such an exodus since ancient times. One of the most obvious examples is that after the disintegration of the State of Emevius and the establishment of the Gernata State, the Spaniards practiced persecution against Muslims and Jews there. During the Bayezid period, the Ottoman Empire took Muslims and Jews from that region to other safer areas. Again, similar to this, in the battle in Poltava, 1709, the XII. On the fall of Charlah to Russia, XII. Sharl took refuge in the Ottoman state and remained in the Ottoman state until 1713. Meanwhile, because all expenses were being met by the Ottoman State and did not wish to return to his country, he received the title of headman, as recorded in the ironhead, and when he was leaving, he received a large amount of financial support, and was sent safely to his country along with the new ones. In the same way, when Hungary was under the pressure of the Austrian-German Empire, those who were also known as Hungarian refugees -- particularly Kütahya, who lived there; the other one, Rakochi Ferenc -- had a place in Tekirdağ, where they were detained, inhabited, and they were granted the right to live as refugees in the Ottoman State as refugees. Likewise, refugees from Poland were taken into custody in Polonezköy, where we all know -- their remains are present. In fact, a great Turkish fashion began in Europe because of these events at that time in history. In France, especially Britain, Ottoman clothes were prominent, such as dressing like Turkish, being Turkish, or a fashion. Dear MPs, there is an important period of war around Turkey again today. Before that, I'll tell you this: Caucasus was just told, but outside the Caucasus, the Balkans also migrated to Anatolia because of the 1777-1778 Ottoman-Russian War. Again, during the 1912 Balkan Wars, Turkey received an important migration from the Balkans. Other than that, there were refugees from Bosnia, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, from different places to Turkey because of the pressures there. They were welcomed in the Republic of Turkey, and they were given the right to live as their own self-absorbed brothers and brothers. The number was so high that during the establishment of the Republic of Turkey in 1923, nearly five million of the existing 13.5 million were immigrants from the Caucasus and the Balkans. These immigrants returned to their homes, to their homes, to their own lands, and to their people. Now, again, the number of immigrants from Syria is given at 1 million. But let me make this very clear, my friends, that you all know that there are over a million refugees coming. But, please, don't make the mistake of saying you're taking very good care of these. Today you all know, our friends know, you see many Syrians begging at mosque doors on Fridays; again, you see many Syrians begging at the door of the markets; beyond that, you see the sick Syrian refugees who are not allowed to go to hospitals and hospitals. The number of Syrians wandering outside the camps is now almost unknown. So please don't make the mistake of saying you're taking very good care of it. Likewise, the number of fugitives from Iraq was over 2 million when America bombed those areas. You all know that because of the massacres and inhuman acts of ISIS, the monstrous acts, the heads cut off, the people who fled from there came to Turkey slowly, seeking refuge in Turkey. So, oddly enough, civilians suffer the greatest burden of such wars. When you look at the number of people who took refuge in Pakistan in the Battle of Afghanistan, you see that there is still human drama, that about 2 million people live as immigrants in Pakistan, living under negative circumstances. There's no way you can tell that these refugees' children have ever had proper education. I mean, a generation is lost to the world because of long wars. Now, dear MPs, I'd like to draw your attention to the places where these wars are found. For some reason, these wars exist in the geography of the Islamic world alone. So there is no war in Europe, and there is no war in another geography. For some reason -- and you all know why -- there are only wars in the Islamic world! Because the Islamic world is the market and colony of Western imperialism. Unfortunately, the Islamic world is being used by someone because it doesn't care about knowledge, it doesn't care about knowledge, it's being used by evil administrators. Here's a man who puts a bullet in people's heads and cuts their heads off with swords and axes but on the other hand tells them that he's going to destroy the Kaaba. We can think outside of Islam. As long as that happens, the Islamic world will, of course, be constantly exploited by other countries, of course, the world of Islam and humans will be constantly used. And as long as it stays that way, we're going to be dealing with people who leave their homes and make a hard living in other countries. In fact, it is Turkey's duty to prevent this from happening in the past. But instead of being here, Turkey has to take a position that is directly accurate, that can make peace, that can prevent this war, that can prevent conflict. Otherwise, he'll find other groups in front of him when he becomes a party, and he'll have a hard time carrying out that mission. Dear MPs, I would like to make it very clear that we are going to say yes to this law, and that we are on the side of all the citizens of the land, to return to their homes, to God, to the people of Cenab, God, not to do such injustice to them. But to that end, I wish all of us to use the mind, which is the most important blessing that God has given to mankind, and to use this mind, to be wise, not to disagree with each other, not to discriminate with each other, not to keep everyone equal in the community, not to begin with our talks, not to start with the reason that we should think of society as a whole, not as citizens. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0035par0084	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0036par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been promised on behalf of the People's Democratic Party, and I salute you all. First of all, the presidential candidates have been appointed, they've submitted their applications, I wish him well, a gentlemanly race, a race on equal terms, an ethical race. Because the Chankaya Mansion is a uniting place, not a separator. With these wishes, I'd like to begin my words. Again, before we enter into the contract, tomorrow, July 2nd, we bow to the memory of our lives lost in Sivas, and we really think that very effective measures should be taken in our country, and we hope that all parties will be sensitive about it. Dear friends, when it comes to the term "statement," I want to state that the new constitution is the most controversial clause in our new constitution, so we've seen the debates on Turkish Republic citizenship -- the 66th Amendment. But when this Parliament was founded and under the roof of this House, when the first Constitution was built under this roof -- 1921 -- there was a concept of the Republic of Turkey citizenship, friends and a concept that unites us, I want to express it first. The concept of the people of Turkey or the people of Turkey is also one of the subjects of the First Assembly's founding philosophy. We, the People's Democratic Party, are very sensitive about this. However, there is a great benefit in saying that when we came from the Ottoman Empire to the republic, there were peoples in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in the Middle East -- friends, relatives, or the same faith -- who lived together for many years during the Ottoman Empire. Arab, Suryani, Assyria, Keldani, Ezidi, Turkmen, Kurds all lived together in this land for many years. Many citizens from Aleppo province to Musul province, from there to the Balkans, to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) come to Turkey from time to time due to conjunctural events in many areas. It's not just a unique event, but when we consider Middle Eastern geography, over a million Syrian citizens are now in Turkey at the end of three years, along with an ongoing conflict with the recent Syrian incident, except for those who have gone to Europe, other countries, transitions. And in the Aegean Sea, the dramas of the people who lost their lives in boats, boats, ships -- more than enough -- smuggling. There are more than a million incidents in Iraq following the incident with our Syrian neighbor, the Mosul incident, and the migrations that took place in areas close to Musul, from Kerkouk to the Shengal Mountains. Before that, in March 1991, there were migrations caused by the bombing of Saddam's planes. So, where there are wars, population movements, migrations, people being forced to move, people being forced to move to another place, living there becomes a necessity. Of course, since the refugee law of the United Nations from the Geneva Conventions, the international law, unfortunately, had not found a radical solution to their law. Now, the 1954 Convention on Status of Non-National Persons is, in fact, a technical contract considered delayed. This delayed-accepted contract is extremely important in many dimensions. They have a status in the countries they go to. For example, those who go to Europe have refugee status -- others -- have a legal position due to the state of patriotism. Their work, their social security, their children's education, their child's marriage-divorce law, custody law, inheritance law, all of which are also the subject of these technical contracts, international private law, private trials, private procedures. When you try to make a decision about a person, what will you do to enforce it? You're gonna check his I.D. first, is he a citizen or not? If not, where is he a citizen of? What happens if you can't determine where you're a citizen? There are now many marriages in Turkey, from the Balkans, Caucasus, or from the Middle East, about these Syrian migrations, and there are children born from these many marriages. Imagine three years, four years, five years together and then divorces. The Republic of Turkey has not fully converted to citizenship, lives in Turkey, has a home, has children. And Mr. Secretary, when it comes to citizenship...
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0037par0096	I'm here.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0036par0097	...just came up to me. Indeed, the recent migrations from Bulgaria, from the Balkans, are an interesting example. Again, we also know that there are problems in Greece from time to time, but there is a problem in the Middle East right now. Now, according to the contract signed by the United Nations, Turkey considers only those from Europe as refugees. Behold, behold, he is not a brother, neither is he a brother, neither is he a man of faith, nor is he a relative. When they take refuge here, they're subjected to a temporary status, and if anyone knows them, they're saving themselves. I mean, you don't know how many Turks there are here in Kerkuk, or how many people came from the Caucasus, Ossetya, or Chechnya, you don't know how many people came from Chechnya. From Bosnia and Herzegovina, due to the civil war, you don't know about the population, the records, the civil law that's coming here, but believe me, when you identify them, there are millions of them, millions of them. This multimillion-stated issue has only one basis: to include them in a certain understanding and status as a party to civil law and international contracts. How much does this contract protect? I think more than this contract, Turkey needs to take steps. Turkey must take steps in its return, the law of refugees from Syria. So, I'd like to ask the High Assembly, and we've discussed the situation of these people: what will be the case of your citizens who have been staying in Mahmur for 20 years, who have a wallet of 15,000 citizens of the Republic of Turkey from Şırnak to Botan to Mahmur? When will you bring your fellow citizens? When will they return to Turkey? I mean, these are very important issues, guys. You'll have to make your own way first. If you can't come up with a solution while your own citizens are staying in purgatory, you will develop it as part of the solution process. Here, because of the necessity in Syria, it is in many ways the Republic of Turkey owes its debt to create a human condition for the people who came here because of the conflicts in Iraq. We think he owes a lot more than a human debt. We give you all our regards.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0038par0104	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. Asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on Articles, Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0039par0111	Mr. President, lawmakers, the contract for the Status of Non-National Persons is a very late contract. Dear friends, of course, this concept of statehood, the concept of not being a citizen of any state, is at the top of the world's biggest problems, especially in less developed countries. Today, whether in Africa or Asia, millions of people do not have status in their own countries, nor do they have a country to go to. One of the most important examples is about one third of the Kurds found in Syria. Some of the Kurds in Syria have citizenship rights, some of them are foreigners, but some of them have foreign identities, some of them are people called letters, they have no records, they have no records, they don't exist, but they don't exist. Again, in Europe, some of the Roma also live in this informality, some of our citizens, again referred to as "Roman" or "Gingene" in Turkey. Of course, when we try to sort them out, some of them are not in the traditional system, they are not yet in the state system, and there is still no record among the people. For example, many years ago, Aziz Nesin wrote one of the most important writings in this matter, under the name of the living and the living; this was presented as a television film, a series; there is, but there is no record. Of course, even though there is another part of the expression "natives" in the countries in which they are located -- as I had just tried to explain in Syria's Kurds -- there are parts that are considered destroyed in nails, destroyed by political debates. A third part is the part of the country that is not home, cannot live, has lost citizenship, but another country does not accept him as its own citizen. Here, in the world, refugees, immigrant camps are full of these people, and their legal struggle continues throughout the world. It's really important for Turkey to take this matter seriously and work on it during such a process, but how to do it, how to recognize it, who to give it to, and that's where the real debate begins. Again, if we go through the Syrian Kurds as an example, why are these people considered destroyed in Syria? The Syrian government says, "I passed a law in 1960, and according to this law, I accepted those who had already declared and proved their existence in this country as citizens, as citizens. Beyond that, again, you live here, but you come from another country. I gave foreign identity to those who told me, and I gave foreign identity, but in no way accepted those who did not enter these two categories. What about these people now? You are from Turkey, you are Kurdish, you are Arab, you are Suryani, you have come to Syria somehow, so you are a citizen of another country, and I do not accept you as a citizen. What is their status in Turkey? Sadly, their situation in Turkey is similar. For example, I have my own relatives, his grandfather's record in Nusaybin, but his grandfather went to Syria, had children, had children, formed a family of a hundred today, with grandchildren and grandchildren; Syria does not accept them as citizens; Turkey has no record of their fathers, mothers, grandchildren do not have a population record in Turkey. So, these are now, like, no need to look anywhere else in the world, these people with no country under our noses. So, we've done a lot of work on this, and we said, in any way, those who prove that their father or grandfather is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey should automatically be granted citizenship of the Republic of Turkey. But unfortunately, no serious action has been taken so far. Again, in the same way, unregistered citizens need to be recorded in some way, and there are a lot of Somalis, Ethiopians, Mozambiquens from Africa who are coming here. Some of them have citizenship in their own country, so they have a passport for show, but most of these people don't come here with these passports, they come here illegally. Some of them don't have those passports, and there's news in the press almost every week, so, you know, the ferry, the boat, the boat -- whatever -- where the fugitives who wanted to cross the Greek islands went down -- went down; 10 people, 20 people, 50 people were drowned in the sea, 50 people died. I've called you 15 people -- 15 people in a house where they lived in Istanbul -- and I don't say this in the head -- they died by burning. This is our Home Minister, our Chief Constable, our Istanbul Governor, our Istanbul Police Director, our Chief Commissioner, Aksaray Police Commissioner, who comes from Angola, and brings in the last three nickels, 300, 500, 1,000, 2,000 dollars from Somalia, and brings in human traffickers from Aksaray, and lives on the road, but no matter what happens, they can't find these human traffickers. Believe me, friends, that's one of the things you're most involved in. I've made a motion to ask: how many people have died trying to escape out of Turkey, to Europe or to another country through human traffickers? How many people have not come to me -- thousands of people -- not yet -- just the ones I've seen from the press, the numbers I've seen, the numbers I've observed, the numbers I've seen, the numbers I've seen, the number of people who have lost their lives, the ones who have been burned, the ones who have lost their lives on different occasions, the ones who have lost their lives. For him, there's a serious drama about the people we call the ancient "haymatlos" that we really call the "native." There is such a group within our country; there are such people in Syria, Iraq, Iran. There are people married at the age of 14, 15 who have been sent to Iran, Iraq, or Syria, who have no record of them or their children. And there are people in the political situation who are citizens of Turkey and in some way in the mass case of Sheikh Sait, who have gone to Syria, Iraq, and are still not citizens there or here. And on top of that -- our friend Mr. Kaplan -- who just spoke for our group -- we have a serious population of citizens in Mahmur. Why did they go, how did they go, who took them, why took them, how did they take them? Friends, the children who were born have nothing to do with it, and maybe we all have faults, including me, but the children who left, the children who were born there, the children who were raised there, they have nothing to do with it. There's no record of these kids there, and there's no record of them here, and they're not 5, 10, but they're talking about numbers expressed by thousands, which are now over 10,000. So, in connection with the contract on the status of these people, all international obligations must be met and serious steps must be taken, both more concrete, more concrete, more tangible, about the issues I've been trying to count just now. This is not the problem of government or opposition, but of humanity. We have to work together to get it done. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-01sit03spe0040par0125	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, as a result of a clear vote on whether it is appropriate for us to join the Convention on the Status of Non-Nationals: Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. According to the resolution issued by the Prime Minister's Office on Wednesday (July 2nd 2014) to discuss other tasks from the Commissions in accordance with the bill and proposals of the UNIFIL Act, as agreed by the Constitution's 92nd Article Warned. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
