tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who asked for a comment on arrested MP Engin Alan. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Engin Alan is one of you, an honorable member of this House. He has been elected by the nation to act as a deputy minister, and he has been under arrest for over three years. For his freedom, there must be something that must first be done by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and by every member of parliament. In this outfit, I protest that a congressman should be kept in prison instead of Parliament. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has not solved the issue of the arrested MP that concerns it directly and needs to resolve with a legal arrangement. For some MPs, the detention issue has been moved to the Constitutional Court and has been resolved to a certain extent by the Constitutional Court's decision. The President of the Constitutional Court has recently said that the political institution, or rather, is not doing its job in power, is only being released by the Constitutional Court's decision by the arrested MPs, who should be able to resolve by legal regulations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Constitutional Court has not yet concluded its application. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has not set foot in order to bring Engin Alan. On the charge of being convicted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but another convicted MP is continuing in the act of legislature. It's called the standard (e.g. standard) of the pair. By not responding to the application, the Supreme Court of Turkey's Grand National Assembly has applied a double standard to allow Engin AlanEST to remain in prison. What needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done, what needs to be done must be done, and what needs to be done must be made possible by Engin Alan, who will be brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The people who gave him the authority to represent him expect it from this House. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has passed a personal law from the Turkish Grand National Assembly in three days for the Undersecretary of the MIT; however, it has not even lifted the power for MPs, representing the national will that has been in prison for years. We'd expect Erdogan's authority to show its sensitivity for the bureaucrat, as well as for lawmakers, representatives of the national will. Today, MHP MP Engin Alan is still in prison for the irresponsibility and revenge of power. Officials of the AKP government, who have been watching as the national will is being held in prison, are also saying: According to AKP's Akdoğan, the parallel structure in the judiciary has plotted against his country's national army. Prime Minister Erdogan said today that we can see much more clearly how people were convicted with letters of false notices, illegal wiretaps, forged evidence, and set up by false evidence. O AKP, if these words belong to you, then you, knowingly, have agreed to the persecution of the people convicted by organized judges and false evidence. This is the consent of persecution. The consent of persecution is cruelty. To AKP officials who have taken no steps to break the plot here, I ask you: What kind of court is the court that judges Engin Alan? I ask you whether this court is the court of parallel justice or the court of the Republic of Turkey. As a result of the application, the Constitutional Court was unable to evacuate all MPs except Engin Alan. In this context, the KCK people have come out of prison, the PKK people have come out, the mafia has come out, the corrupts have come out, the MP Engin Alan is still in prison. O AYM, what are you waiting for to order an evacuation of the Engin Field? Chief of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, why don't you take the step you have to make to evacuate Engin Alan? How can you ignore the fact that one of you is being held in prison? Where's the justice in that, where's the law, where's the conscience in that? Engin Alan, the heroic commander of Erenköy's defense in Cyprus, is Engin Alan, who made the baby killer incapable of terror, and Engin Alan, who organized the Azerbaijan army so that the massacres of Hodja would not happen again, is Engin Alan, who was chosen by the will of the nation. O Engin Alan, hold your head high that neither bows nor bows! The will of the nation will overcome tyranny and darkness. The Turkish nation salutes you. And I salute you from here.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. The second non-committal statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora (deputy) who wants to talk about the Mine Prohibition Agreement and Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party to address the Ottawa Convention, which regulates landmine bans and is off the agenda on Turkey. I salute the General Assembly. In 2014, a world without mines and a mineless Turkey have a special importance in fulfilling its goals. 2014 is the 15th year of the Ottawa Convention, which regulates landmine bans, and Turkey is the 10th year of the deal. In addition, the Mine Prohibition Agreement will take place in Mozambique in June of this year. In the 1950s, the mines were laid around borders with Syria, Armenia, Iran, Iraq, and military facilities in the 1990s. According to data, Turkey does not have mines on its western borders with Greece and Bulgaria alone and with Georgia. The mines are located in the districts of Ardahan, Batman, Bingol, Bitlis, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Hakakari, Hatay, Iğdır, Kars, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa, Şırnak, Tunceli and Van. The total of minefields in Turkey is about 215 million square metres. Apart from the border areas, mines laid around temporary outposts in particular have not been cleared since the outposts were moved, nor have international standards been marked. Mr. President, valued lawmakers were injured by mines and 1,269 people were killed by mines from 1984 to 2009, according to a statement announced by the Interior Ministry in 2010. Signing the Ottawa Convention, Turkey has pledged to destroy mines in its stocks until 1 March 2008 and to clean mines with land by 2014. The mines in the stocks have been destroyed, but no serious path has been taken as far as what's buried in the ground. The number of explosive materials in Turkey's war residue is unknown. Dear lawmakers, only 26,000 mines were destroyed from over 1 million mines buried between 1998 and 2012. From now on, Turkey has demanded an eight-year extension, promising to clear all its mines by 2022. Turkey's deadline request report states that mine removal will begin in 2015. These statements have raised serious concerns about commitments to mine removal, especially to the overwhelming reasons for starting mine removal, and the changes in history, which may be postponed. Deliable lawmakers have blocked the use of these fields for development of infrastructure, agricultural use and other purposes, as well as the attempt on people's lives by mines in Turkey. In addition, these mines prevent academic research such as archaeological studies on Turkey's borders. Minefields continue to pose a danger to both the locals and refugees. Dear lawmakers, a study of how many mine victims there are in Turkey and the size of their treatment problems, reintegration programmes and the economic problems of our citizens has yet to be done by any institution, unfortunately. Serious work on collection of data on mine victims and victims should be launched immediately, with serious efforts towards rehabilitation, orientation and economic support programmes. The struggle for the death of hundreds of civilians and soldiers around the world is a current issue in which landmines and free explosives -- considered one of the world's most devious weapons -- which has left thousands of people injured for life -- are not being used, not being used, and not being cleaned. The existence of minefields, the death stories of those who set foot in the land, should now be said to be left without cause, without legs, without arms, or even without eyes. Turkey's Ottowa Convention, which it sides with, says it must apply the terms of the Ottowa Convention urgently, with such feelings and thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu, who wants to talk about alleged irregularities in the 2014 local elections and to make the following elections questionable. Here you go, Mr. Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, the March 30th local elections are almost a month away. We discuss the election results politically, we discuss the political consequences in detail, but what choice did we make, when the election justice was done, did we have a quick choice? It's been about a month since the election ended. In places close together, there are particularly large doubts. In many places, close election results have not been disclosed or have only been revealed recently. A month is a long time. It's a scandal that when we watch TV on our cell phones, when we go to the Internet, when technology is so busy, the election results still can't be explained for a month. I think we should really talk about this. I took the word off the agenda for him, and I wanted to bring it up. My dear friends, I was also the Ankara Metropolitan City Election Coordinator, I did these studies on behalf of my party, and the results of the Ankara Metropolitan elections are still unclear. If you look at the YSK records, you will find that the results of the Ankara election are not fully explained. Ankara's election results were close, too, between us and the ruling party, there's a doubt, there's a problem, of course. We applied to the YSK; we applied with 43 files and folders. There were at least 10 articles, and these 10 articles had sub-nets. Our 43-file application was assessed within a few hours, and our objection was rejected. All of this requires reassessment of these elections, handling how we choose. You know, there are three sides to the election: one, there are voters and there are people. Second, there are candidates and political parties. And thirdly, there's judgment, the NGO, the government. These three sides side with the election, they make the choice. The voter did his part by doing 90% of the time. Both political parties and candidates, in their opinion, have done their part in a sense despite city terror, which has been experienced in spite of power cuts, or especially despite the public-powered terrors in many places, despite injustices, but the real, state-state, the YSK has failed its mission, I think, in a way, in a way. I'd like to be specific about that. Now, the High Election Board can be divided into three tasks that the judiciary must perform -- pre-election missions, election day, election day, and post-election duties -- we can look at them like this. The YSK did not perform its duty before the election. For example, propaganda posters: Even though these are unfairly placed by those in possession of municipalities, the objections regarding them are not evaluated and cannot be taken in time, so they cannot, cannot, cannot, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, doesn't have a law enforcement force, unfortunately. When it's too late, maybe it can only be removed. It's a huge injustice, or someone says: "I'm the whitest TV." He goes out, he defames all his competitors, he tells them everything. After that, the need for it cannot be done again, or RTÜK decisions cannot be implemented on time. There are such injustices before elections. And I'll tell you something else: there were 27 parties in this election, but there were a lot fewer parties to go to. Many parties participated in the election, even though they did not make general boards -- although they did not make general boards or general boards in many counties -- illegally. Even that determination is in short supply of judgment. I mean, look, there are parties that are close to 100, with 100 members at the most, who have participated in the election. They shouldn't be involved, they shouldn't be so crowded. I interrupt my remarks by saying that there are 2,908 unsealed reports regarding the Ankara elections and that the YSK has not conducted the necessary examination. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a pledge to lawmakers who have entered the system according to the Civil Code of 60. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, May 1 is a day of hard work and solidarity that has become a symbol of struggle and solidarity. The AKP could never understand the spirit of May 1st (May 1st), the spirit of a worker who condones an uninsured worker, who doesn't see the killings of workers, who puts the worker to capital, who forces the children to work; it's a transgressor, it's a hater, it's a segregator, it's a separatist, it's a force that brings the workers and other workers to face each other. It is our honor and honor to remember our friends who brought May 1 to this day and taught us to respect the work. History will never forgive those who do not allow division. All over Turkey, we will continue to live the symbol of the glorious resistance, just as we did in division. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you. Mr. President, in our village of Bursa Karacabey Twins, 2.230 acres of first-class agricultural land, KOTİYAK has established a small-scale co-operative and has made an effort to develop a small-scale industry here. However, as a result of the resistance of the vocational rooms, NGOS have this time activated TOKİYAK and opened an office to publicize it with public interest. I'd like to ask the ministers: has the TOKI mission started in the real estate bureau? If they give me any information on that, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0011par0074	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. The number of our citizens who have been sentenced to three months in prison for failing to fulfill their commitments to their debts under the terms of the Law on Appeals and Bankruptions has reached 100,000 for those who are in prison and 300,000 for those who are on the run. The victimization of these citizens is increasing day by day. I call upon the government to resolve the problem of our citizens in this situation, and I thank you, as I say, that the bill that we have made on behalf of the National Movement Party for this purpose must be immediately taken into parliament's agenda and legalized.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0011par0079	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, an attack on my president and a government prosecutor who works for the Istanbul Prosecutor's Office calling on my president to testify is a dictatorship. The absence of the people who carried out the attack and the fact that we accidentally called on this aide prosecutor to testify, we withdraw the call, he learns it himself; what more do you want? What more do you want? Documents and evidence of corruption in the history of the world that AKP is trying to close down, corruption he intends to destroy by the hand of justice... the Erdogan family, ministers and pro-AKP businessmen think they can get rid of the major allegations of corruption, these pressures. Let those who destroy justice and justice and law in this country know that we will never let go of those who have wronged the orphan. Our struggle is for a better, freer Turkey, where there is no discrimination, no theft, no children go to bed hungry. No pressure, no threat will stop us from fighting. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0014par0086	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Three weeks before the end of the league, I congratulate Fenerbahçe, who reached his 19th title, and as district MP, I want to say that I am proud of the Fenerbahçe community -- all its members. Since July 3rd, the champion of Fenerbahce, who has survived heavy coups, who have stood up and resisted under any circumstances, is undoubtedly the most meaningful of what has ever happened. From here, I give thanks to Ali Ismail Korkmaz, who was killed when he was 19 years old and was not able to see the 19th championship of the team he held, who wrote the song. Once again, this championship of Fenerbahçe shall be a gift to the gas-eating fans, who stand upright under all conditions to President Aziz Yıldırım, the administration, the footballers, and Ali Ismail Korkmaz. I wish that the request for a retrial would be taken seriously by 600,000 people who have signed the Justice Lantern Yakίa campaign. I'm celebrating Fenerbahçe again from here.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0017par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow is May 1st Labor and Labor Day. This is where I greet my fellow workers, who will celebrate their day in the Zombie Square, which is Turkey's freedom and democracy square on May 1st Labor Day tomorrow. Mr. President, in public, a bag of legislation that knew college youth as the law of amnesty has been passed to students before 2011. However, since it was limited to that date, we have young people who have been unable to use the university's right to education, who have somehow not been able to go to college -- not to continue, family problems, financial impossibilities -- who are now looking for more than 200,000 college pardons. They are looking forward to regaining their right to education under the Constitutional Rights of Education, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with a hope, with great hope, and we are waiting for the amnesty law to come out of parliament. From here, I speak to government officials: Let's not darken the future of these young people, let's not compromise their hopes, and let's quickly pass this student pardon law through the House to restore the hopes of our students, our young people, Turkey, and the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0018par0104	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0019par0107	Mr. President, it is our citizens who are curious about the understanding of conservativeisation and especially how the Prime Minister will interpret the current painting, in exchange for the increasing annual number of child abuses and murders against women and the increase in child brides during the AKP administration. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0018par0109	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0020par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2011, I ask the Minister of Justice, Bekir doesn't answer, Ali Babacan transfers them to Ali Babacan. Ali Babacan also says that we have removed these prosecutors from office so that the Republican prosecutors who are conducting the investigation will not be subjected to speculative assessments, that they will not be exposed to negative and unjust accusations in the investigation, that the sense of trust in justice and the judiciary will not be shaken by the investigation. In addition, they dismissed these prosecutors to cover up claims that existed in Erdogan and his family in the Lighthouse case and to eliminate the measure on the assets of their allies. Again, I'm asking Ali Babacan: The General Manager, who you took from the Public Bank General Directorate and assigned to the Board of Agriculture, gave a person $575m loan and the loan was sunk. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What right do you have to bring in a person who's sunk a $575 million loan and join the Board of Agriculture Bank? Don't you have a conscience?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0021par0117	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0022par0120	Mr. President, I have a call to the government on the eve of May 1st: to stop interfering with the gathering of workers, to resolve business killings; to solve union-free, unsecured workers' rights; to take the problems of workers waiting at the door for the staff; to take the real rewards of women's labor; to determine why child workers are reduced by regulations and age limits; to address the future concerns of non-employed college graduates. I congratulate the workers on May 1st Labor and Solidarity Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0023par0123	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0024par0126	Thank you. We celebrated April 23rd a week ago. However, even though we were the only country to give children a holiday, yesterday we saw that six - year - old Mystery and the nine - year - old Hope were brutally murdered, and we could not even protect their lives. It's a sign of weakness to have a guilty conscience about these events that have overwhelmed everyone. We couldn't protect Hope, Mystery, but we still have to protect Free and Lorin. Free and Lorin is only five months old, and if Parliament doesn't take action, the twins, who will be six months old on May 19th, will go to prison. I'm ashamed to see how cruel the state is to their children when I think about how you're going to take care of the twins of the 43% disabled mother Property Iron Sword. From here, I speak to all who have a conscience and to the Parliament: The Parliament must act immediately, so that they do not enter the prison of the free and the Lorin. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0025par0131	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0026par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the championship of Fenerbahçe Sports Club. Chemicals are used to increase production in agriculture. Genetically modified products, as we call them, are also being grown and used in our country day after day. The accumulation of chemicals and intensive use of GMO-based products have been determined by research that causes allergic skin disease, cancer, and kidney disease, especially in our children. Therefore, the Ministry of Health and Agriculture must immediately establish research centres for the use of chemicals and the effects of GDO-based products on human health. I'd like to invite the ministries to take office. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0027par0139	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0028par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to an investigation launched by a republican prosecutor in İstanbul, İstanbul MP Kemal Kilicdaroğlu has invited him to testify in court. Mr. Kilicdaroglu has immunity from law due to his being a member of parliament. It is unthinkable for a person with immunity to the law to be invited to testify in court by a prosecutor. This is a direct violation of the Constitution, a violation of the Constitution. In a statement issued yesterday, the Istanbul Public Prosecutor's Office tried to save the situation by stating that the invitation was made, but with this statement, the situation is too dire to save. Given the prosecutor's investigation, it appears that we are facing a motion that shows that the prosecutor's republic, not the law, but someone's in charge of it, is being invited to testify based on the fact that the Prime Minister's relatives are the subject of this investigation and that Mr. Kilicdaroglu is the subject of their complaint. This is a direct attack on democracy, on the Constitution. This is not something that can be avoided by calling it "the universe." I invite the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors to proceed without waiting for a complaint to be filed concerning this prosecutor who violated the Constitution. Public prosecutors should be at the disposal of the republic, not others. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0029par0146	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0030par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we begin the first month of recep, the first of the three months that bring peace to our spiritual lives, and also the night that connects Thursday to Friday, we will understand the blessed Regaip Kandili. In these months and months and in every month, we must be treated with love and respect everywhere and at all times, to remove resentments, resentments, unity, and unity. We need to be in the spirit of truth and honesty, sharing and solidarity, right and law, peace and brotherhood, to live together, to take care of orphans and orphans and orphans and orphans, to share pain and sorrows and joys and lift the part, and to guide that framework with our actions. With these feelings, I wish to congratulate our country, the Islamic world, the blessed three months of all mankind, and the Regaip Kandili, the cause of peace, peace, and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0031par0153	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0032par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, a few days ago, two specialist sergeants were kidnapped on the road to Diyarbakir-Bingöl. We appreciate the work of the BDP and HDP (HDP) on these two sergeants, but I also condemn the government's silence and desperation. So there should be a more active study on this subject. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0033par0159	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0034par0162	Thank you, Mayor. Turkey is a country that signed the Children's Rights Convention in 1990. Child brides, neglect, sexual assault, beatings, disappearances, and murder... kids getting killed in a row. Mystery, Hope, Pamir, Halil, Abraham, Mert, Hero, Kemal, and many others, we wish it to be the end. Let's end these murders. Unable to internalise the meaning of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day (April 23rd), the AKP's ruling cannot and cannot understand the reasons for increasing child murders.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0033par0164	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Dear Line...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0035par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. I've made a promise for the May Day Labor Day we're celebrating tomorrow. People work hard to learn, to teach, to study, to earn a living and to contribute to society. This work is a sacred and important capital. We are representatives of a civilization that says that giving the worker his rights without drying, honoring the work in society, with such precision, is one of our best qualities. Since we have been a government, knowing the importance of labor and hard work in working as the EC PARTI, we have been trying to solve the problems of all workers, workers, workers, working citizens, and we will continue to take the necessary steps in this matter. As long as he plays the role of embracer of society, strengthener of solidarity, promoter of rights, promoter of friendship, brotherhood and unity in the name of May 1st Labor and Solidarity Day. On this occasion, May 1st, he wishes to take his place in the society as a day when the faces of the past have been left behind and the faces have been smiling, hopeful for the future, and all workers, civil servants and workers celebrate the Day of Labour and Solidarity on behalf of the Justice and Development Party. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0036par0172	Thank you, Mr. Row. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0037par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish that the three blessed months we've been in will bring blessings to the entire Turkish Islamic world. Again, I wish May 1st to bring peace and peace to all our fellow workers. Again, six days ago, we saw our mystery daughter, who was kidnapped in our province of Adana, brutally murdered. I ask for God's mercy, and I offer my patience and my condolences to your relatives. Again, I pray for God's mercy to the nine - year - old Hope. I'd like to point out that in an environment where social corruption and moral weakness have reached the extreme, these twelve years in power by a conservative government must be well assessed. While members of the government are here, these child abductions, children's murders, women's killings, need to be quickly taken into account. Look, in America, a system called Amber Alert was created, and after it was put into practice, the lives of nearly 30 ▪ children were saved in this way.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0038par0180	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Acar, please.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0039par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. In Antalya, the prices of age vegetables have gone down. Exports are going down, prices are going down. What kind of work does the government do to ensure the opening of foreign sales? That's what I want to know. In some places it is said that some exports have returned because of medicine. How true is that? Why haven't the measures been taken? Where does the prosecutor's office gain power by inviting our president to the D.A.'s office? Such an incident is a threat to all Republican People's Party members. And I'd like to say that I'm condemning that here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0040par0188	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Finally, Mr. Sky, please.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0041par0191	Mr. President, as there is a political, moral, and constitutional scandal by a prosecutor who has sent an invitation to our president, this prosecutor's words later are also a scandal. After we stated that he withdrew the invitation card, we withdrew it, and what more does he want? In a singular statement to our president, the prosecutor who gave such an ordinary and sad speech as if it were a higher office, is indeed a disgrace to the Republican prosecutors. It is imperative that HSYK take action on this prosecutor, not only for Republican People's Party members, but also for our assurance of the legal state. I'll state that, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0040par0193	Thank you, Mr. Sky. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the measures needed to improve our animalism, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Civil Code. [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 5) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Malatya]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 10) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] 15) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] In the 1990s, privatisation of the Milk Industry Association and any institution or structure that would replace the Meat and Fish Association has led to extremely negative developments in our country's animalism. These developments are also important to understand that every policy that international organisations dictate to us will not bring any good to our country. In the years when our dairy animalism was in crisis, our dairy animals were sent to the slaughter. The feed/milk parity, one of the most important problems of our animalism, needs to be supported to be at least 1.5 levels. The average milk yield, which weighs at least 2,638 kilograms per cow, must be increased to at least 2 times as much, and most of the milk produced should be processed in modern facilities and quality standards improved. Our manufacturers are complaining about the height of the bait prices. With countermeasures to reduce the cost of feeding, our farmers must be allowed to continue their production. If we want to end butchering animals and meat imports in this country, we need to support our producers more. Therefore, a parliamentary investigation is required to determine measures to improve our animalism. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Despite legislation adopted within the framework of the European Union's acquisitor and practices made in this framework, it is inevitable that we will suffer from plant and animal health standards and especially animal disease. The inability to prevent illegal animal entry from neighbouring countries makes it difficult to combat animal disease and ensure food safety. In order for our problems with animal health to be resolved and some important diseases to be eliminated, radical measures must be taken and carried out with determination. In addition to our structural problems, the high price of input, such as fertilizer, diesel, seed, electricity, forces the Turkish farmer. When Turkish agriculture is part of the European Union's Common Agriculture Policy, the age will be negatively affected by fruit dried, such as vegetables, apricots, grapes, figs, nuts, pistachios, olive-zoytin oil, and beans. Oily seeds and corn and meat and dairy products, some industrial plants and grains, especially rice, have problems, and there will be more problems in the coming days. Therefore, in order to identify and examine the problems of our farmers, we propose and propose that Parliamental research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İzmir]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] 6) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Malatya]] [[Adana]] 9) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 14) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] 16) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] In the last 15 years, the number of people affected by hunger and malnutrition has risen from 850 million to 925 million, aside from a decline. To solve the hunger problem of nearly 1 billion people around the world, international strategies must be developed and effective cooperation must be made. From growing food prices around the world, it is a fact that international big corporations are already profitable, not farmers, but market owners. Compared to the agriculture of developed countries, we also see that there are some mistakes somewhere and that government policies are inadequate. In order to overcome inadequacies, we need to put strategic importance on our agriculture, our advantages from our geography, and we need to very well consider the fact that the countries around us are not as lucky as we are at food production. In this framework, we need to expand our goals in the world's agricultural products market and support our agriculture with appropriate policies. In this regard, our water resources, our agricultural areas, especially our mera, are of great importance to protect, develop, and sustainable use of our natural resources. If we can accomplish all this, it will be possible not to develop global capital, but our own farmer, our country. Turkey must have a strong agricultural sector if it wants to be a stronger country in this region to run a more effective foreign policy. In the Middle East, Russia, Turkish republics, Caucasus and North Africa, food prices have been rising in recent years. If our country's agricultural potential is to invest in infrastructure, efficiency, logistics and marketing, it's big enough to provide the food that these regions need, that these countries can provide food guarantees. But because of the government's policies, agriculture is losing blood day by day. As it is known, our country is a member of the World Trade Organization and a candidate for the European Union. Thus, our obligations to the World Trade Organization and our obligation to adapt to the common EU agricultural policy bring some guiding and restrictive mechanisms for our country's agriculture. In this direction, it is not possible to say that free competition will always occur when agricultural support is removed and customs walls are drawn down. Because in the struggle of the inequality, can you talk about freedom and justice? For these reasons, it seems necessary to open a parliamentary investigation to determine problems and find solutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Bartin's most important river is the river of Bartin, named Parthenios in the year B.C.E. and named it after the city. Hucachay and Kasanaz Tea, which merged in the Cape of Gaza in the center of the city, flowed 10 miles [15 km] to the Black Sea in the Bosphorus. As Kocazanaz tea rises from the south and flows north from Kozacaki, it is made up of streams that come from Kocasay Kastamonon and pass through the Nation and join them with Göksu and Eldesh Teas (Ulus Tea). The Kozlu Tea, composed of Arit and Mevren Creeks, is a river that feeds the Waters of Barracks, Akpınar and Karachay Creeks. Other important streams are the Ova Tea and the Inöne Creeks, which watered the Leafs of the Leaf and the Tekkeönu and Nation-Nuluyala, which were born in the land of Kurucashile and reached the Black Sea. The Bartin River is the most regular stream of transport from the Black Sea to the city with 500 tons of ships on it. The speed of flow is 750 meters per hour, pouring 1 billion m3 metres per year into the sea. All along the river's route, the surrounding area is a first-degree natural site and is protected. The river, which contributes to regional tourism with the natural landscape of green vegetation, is contaminated by chemical liquid waste left from some factories in industrial areas. Because of pollution, a black river threatens the environment and public health, destroys natural life, kills fish from time to time, which cannot be expressed by numbers. Certain measures against the pollution that is frequent in Bart's River are now required to be taken and to be saved from the pollution that the river does not deserve. Article 30/6/2004 states that "The Black Sea's Convention on Protection of Pollution" of 30/20012 and 5212 is stated in the Black Sea as the proper confirmation of Biodiversity and Protection Protocol of Landscape, and in the protocol approved by the Dair Law, the aim of the Black Sea would be to maintain its ecosystem in a good ecological state and to maintain its integrity in order to enrich biological resources, to preserve and sustain the diversity of landscapes in the Black Sea, and to maintain and sustain its own national legal systems. Furthermore, "Projects were intended to develop to ensure that Bartin could not obtain economic, historically and culturally rich tourist inputs in Bartin's Strategic Purposes and State Development Plan 2023, but also to diversify tourism at the desired level. For these purposes, the motor, boat, water bike, etc. It has been decided that for its fulfillment, ports should be built in isolated ports such as Inkumu, Nicecehisar, Amasra, Chakraz, Kurucashile and Tekeönu. As a result, the Bartin River, one of the most important natural areas of our country's natural resources and landscape inventory, is an important landscape area with its water capacity, fluorescent, fauna, historical history and cultural structure. The Bartin River should be discussed in terms of its ecological potential and the importance of the city as a tourist destination, but unfortunately, its pollution is causing the stench to develop, and Bart's people are also deeply disturbed by the situation. A number of dates have been conducted by Bart's State Department of Environment and Urbanism in the river, and they have been found to have been left waste from factories operating in the Organised Industrial Zone as a result of these investigations, but they have been fined under the laws related to these factories, but they have not been deterred. The reasons for the pollution of the river that is important to Bart's people are to be thoroughly investigated and to be taken by international protocols to ensure the river's contribution to tourism as soon as possible. For these reasons, I would like to ask that Parliament investigate the reasons for the pollution that is frequent in Bartin River to be opened according to Article 104, 105, and Article 105 of the Constitution under Article 98, in order for the necessary measures to be taken care of. 1) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Malatya]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 6) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] 9) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] 10) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] 16) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Aydın]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now we move on to the part of the agenda. Turkey's Grand National Assembly head of the People's Democratic Party Group, which fell on the presidential Court, has been nominated as İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0042par0391	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit01spe0040par0392	I will, sir. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0040par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote for İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder, who was proposed to be a member of the presidential Court, was not enough for the decision. Now, I'm going to repeat the voting process, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough of a decision, it's accepted. Mr. Belen, you're in the system. Mr. Belen's out. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Act and the Amendment to the Turkish Civil Code and of Tripoli MP Mehmet Volcan Canalioglu, 5578 Law on Land Protection and Land Use Act and the Justice Commission on Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission Reports. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's merger completed the talks on the entire bill on behalf of groups. Now, the first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Mr. Bursa MP Ilhan Demiröz. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0043par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the Amendment to Land Protection and Land Use Act 564. I salute our farmers, peasants, and you with love and respect, watching us at the beginning of their televisions, producing out of spite, not getting paid. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to start with a message about delaying the farmer's debts that come to the phone of the Bursa farmers. He says a study has been launched on delaying debt for farmers in 60 counties whose products have been damaged due to frosting at the end of March. The minister's report is being sent by a company to the farmers with a text message. The farmers are looking for us, and they expect a message like this from the Minister to come with a sense of hope. However, our farmers do not know that because of the 2004 black Sea frost incident, farmers have yet to receive 153 million dollars. Our farmers, our peasants, have been preparing to fight the drought this year, and they've been faced with frost and hail lately. We're getting frosty news from all over our country, and we're sad. In Malatya, in the Black Sea, finally in Izmir Kemalpaşa, in Kayseri, all over Turkey, we get news of these disasters. Part of these frost events are frost damage from 30, 30, 31 March; Giresun, Tripoli, the Army, at certain intervals in Samsun, or 30 per cent to 100 per cent in altitudes. We'd like to tell you this: I know that Minister TARSIM will talk about insurance related to Tarsim, and if he declares a disaster zone, he'll talk about the fact that there are property properties in these areas, more than 40 per cent or less than 40 per cent. In fact, it won't solve the farmers' problems, but I would like to point out that by doing our duty here, we mean that our dear farm brothers, our peasant brothers, do not have any hope in the government or the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting and warning them in this regard. Dear lawmakers, the farmers have these demands by the Ministry of Agriculture, not by delaying their debt to Agriculture Bank loans, not by redevelopment; they also owe money to private banks; they owe money to the drug dealer; they owe money to watering troops. So, sitting around a table, I'd like to say that the food, agriculture and animalism minister, who today appears to own farmers, should have a solution for them, because while our farmers are dealing with this, they're also looking to Mr. Agriculture Minister to explain that there's a shipload of corn at Bursa, when the harvest season of corn comes, when the harvest ends in Adana, when Karacabey is being harvested in Karacabey. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that on 12 April 2014, agricultural support was published in the Official Gazette, which would be implemented in 2014, but when the decision was reviewed, the amount of support was not increased, and our farmers were left to their destinies again. Dear lawmakers, there's been an increase in mazoda based on dekar, 70 milliliters. So in order to describe it better in a different way, I'd like to say that there's been an increase in diesel as big as this part of the glass, which is what the Department of Agriculture looks at farmers as, you know, as well as what their support is. And as for my region, there has been a slight increase in logo cotton and olive oil in the South Marmara basin, while the table olives we asked for with 11,000 signatures have not been considered by the Ministry at all, while corn, wheat, barley, kilt, dried beans, and chickpeas have not increased in our region. Dear lawmakers, in order for this work on land to be positive, farmers, producers, and small farmers must be protected. Otherwise, new poor masses will be created and placed in the service sector, out of work in the industrial sector, into the slums. This law requires structure, but the Law on Land Protection and Land Use requires that large plains be determined, our agricultural land presence be determined, detailed soil work be done in other words, but I would like to express that there are questions as to how this government will do it by dismantling its institutions, by dismantling technical staff there with the Metropolitan Law. Dear MPs, a comment on this law, I would like to share with you the views of the world newspaper columnist Ali Ekber Yıldırım, who usually aims at a more efficient agricultural production by preventing the division of agricultural land and businesses. But if you look between the lines, this bill can be described as the law of increasing loss of small farming, removing family business, instead as the law of land-owning companies, large businesses, investing in and investing in domestic and foreign capital. When the United Nations declared 2014 the Year of Family Farming, does it not make sense to you that Turkey has attempted to destroy family farming with such an arrangement? I'd like to add to our columnist's comments from our farmers on the phone, and I'd like to share them with you. A farmer who is 17km away from Ankara says: "I have studied this law very well, I have read it. With this law, you will turn the brothers against each other, you will bring them to the lowest level of relationship among the brothers, and if one of the brothers takes one of these lands, you will make them all look at it wrong. You will create new landowners by this law, and these lands that we cannot buy, rich people, capital groups, will come to the villages to collect them, and new landowners will be created. Unfortunately, the value of our land will be reduced because we can't sell in water, dry, dry, ostracized, and covered. Finally, the valued lawmakers say: "There will be a gender distinction for our women, and they will never, ever get a share of their land." I salute you all with respect and love; thank you, be you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0044par0036	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Anthalya MP Hüseyin Samani. Here you go, Mr. Samani.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0045par0040	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding law 564 rows. I salute you all. There's one thing that almost everyone agrees about agriculture: agriculture is mentioned as the first reason for productivity and economicism, the smallness of agricultural land, or agricultural enterprises. This law, when we look at it in general, is the use of land protection and land... When we call it soil protection, what we usually perceive is that so far in our minds, we can talk about the loss of our land for other than agriculture, the loss of our land for other purposes, the destruction of our land, the loss of the flood, the loss of such things, the deforestation, and the loss of the land in general. We've taken many measures in our country to this day. So, we built dams, we had drainage ducts, we had our streams rehabilitated, we took care to change the drainage channels to prevent deforestation, we went through the rain and drip systems, and so maybe we tried to avoid the inefficient landscapes, but we forgot that maybe one of the causes of the loss of land was the land that was abandoned. The land that stays on the ground means the land that cannot be operated by the manufacturers. The main reason for this is that the size of the business goes below the economic limit -- the size of the land, the size of the parcels, is that it goes below the economic parcels of its economics. So when we look at it in general, today, assuming that we have 5.9 hectares of business in our country, and that there are 3 million businesses in our country, and that every business has about 10 parcels, so that's 5-6 per parcel. If the measure is not taken, they will be smaller and smaller in the next phase, and in general, this is the country's average. When we go down to some of the cities in our country, we can see that there are 2 square meters, even 1,000 square meters, 500 square meters, with a capacity of 200 square feet, but not able to operate. Today, we all remember that in many areas the villagers stop running their land. One of the reasons they're giving up is because they're small in businesses. There's no way we can run a two-mark parcel, a one-point, a 500-metre-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-squares economically. If this is not taken care of, it will continue to increase further. Now, let's think about this: If we think of the size of 5.9 hectares in our country right now, and we think of it as a parcel of 1.50, and if this father had 5 children, he'd have 10 in the first generation, he'd have 2 in the second generation and he'd have 5 children left behind, so that two generations later, these land would become unusable, economically unusable. The manufacturer will go with his tractor for a two-mark plot of land, and he'll go there with the mechanisms and equipment, and he'll go there with the exterminator machines and the fertilizer machines, and he'll go like this for 50 marks and 100 acres of land. For that reason, there is one thing that everyone in our country, almost everyone in our country who thinks about it, everyone who cares about agriculture, everyone who does agriculture, is under the economic limit in our country: agricultural enterprises are below the economic limit, in general sense, productivity has fallen for it, economicism is falling. However, in countries that take measures around the world, there are over 50 hectares of agricultural business in countries like the United States -- so over 50 hectares in countries like Britain, France, Germany, 45 hectares in Germany, much higher than this in America -- but when it comes to our country, it's 5.9 hectares. Today, with this law, we're all trying to find a solution to a very important problem in our country, to the agriculture problem here as the Great National Assembly of Turkey. I believe that with the support of all groups, this important problem will be eliminated. So far, with our Department of Agriculture and the laws passed by Congress, we've tried to take some precautions. In February 2007, under a law published in the Official Gazette, we determined the size of agricultural land according to its use, so we determined it in watery watery land, obelisks, greenhouse fields. Our Ministry of Agriculture has organized a gathering that has never been seen in the history of the Republic. I'd like to express to you that we all, as workers in the name of country agriculture, are grateful. But in order for all of this to work in the future, the Ministry of Agriculture is massing, and then, through inheritance, the farmland is constantly divided. The developed countries of the world have taken care of it long ago. I think the only thing that can be said about this is that it's a law that we have to make, but I think we need to make an assessment that we haven't passed, that we're late. When it comes to the content of the law, it will be explained in terms of how to organize it among families, so I do not enter into it. I believe this law will be passed with the support of all our representatives of the political party in parliament. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0046par0051	Thank you, Mr. Samani. Now we're going to question-answer. I'll give you 20 minutes, ten minutes of questions, ten minutes of answers. Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0047par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions for the Minister: First of all, do you have any work on the downloading of EVT and VAT in diesel, medicine, fertilizer and agriculture machines, especially for the support of plant and animal production, which have not been profitable due to the recent increase in agricultural input prices? If so, where is this study at? Second, how much of the staff that you announced and promised to the public last year were you able to fill in on the appointment of agricultural engineer, veterinary physician, fishing technology and water products engineers? What solution do you intend to find in 2014 for these unemployed engineers who are screaming today? My last question: do you have any work on solving the problems of the nut manufacturers affected by the frost, and when do you intend to put them into practice? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0048par0061	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Oz, here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0049par0063	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what is the total number of still unemployed agricultural engineers and agricultural technicians in Turkey? Is there a program designed by your Ministry for 2014 and 2015 to resolve employment problems? While there are many unemployed agricultural engineers and agricultural technicians, do you have any idea of a new arrangement in the number of agricultural engineers and technicians taken into these parts of universities, or do you have a coordinated study with the Ministry? My other question, especially from these natural disasters, is that we know that the Turkish farmer was extremely victimised, especially this year, and that he was greatly disturbed by the frost disaster. In this regard, do you have a study that envisions urgent measures as a government, delaying loans or removing interest? Farmers are looking forward to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0050par0067	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0051par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, especially because of the winter drought in Adana, the wheat did not improve enough; it should be harvested on May 20th or 25th, but now the wheat harvest has begun, and there are already serious crop losses. When will the base prices of these be announced? When it's announced late, these farmers are victims and we're smothering merchants, are you planning on taking precautions? Again, in our province of Adana, especially because of the frosting on the night of March 29th, there were serious problems in watermelons and large greenhouses, the citrus -- especially the grapefruit -- that caused serious damage. The farmer's a mess. Do you plan to take any precautions regarding the loss of these panties, and what are the studies of our province of Adana at the point of making amends? I want to know about them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0052par0073	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0053par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Kumluova and Karadere neighborhoods in the District of Seydikemer, Mugla Province, have caused serious damage to the hailing greenhouses and orchards, which were effective in many neighborhoods on April 28th. Do you have any work on paying for these damages? Again, especially now that the harvest is in the tomato, in the greenhouse, the prices are very low, do you think there's any incentive to export about it? In addition, the bill that we are currently negotiating is referred to Parliament in May 2013, but the newly committed districts of the Metropolitan Law, published between 6 December 2012, are not part of the legislation we are currently negotiating. That's why both the Ministry of Agriculture and the relevant commission, unfortunately, have come this far by avoiding you, and we're wondering if you're considering taking any measures to fix it while there's time. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0054par0080	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0055par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, along with this 2/B Act, the sale of treasured land was also on the agenda. There is a problem, however, that after the All-city Act came out, after the Metropolitan Act, these 2/B Treasure Lands are in the area of the mujavir. Do you intend to bring a new legal arrangement on this matter? Because the farmer is a victim. There's a problem with whether or not he can buy this land or rent it or not. This needs to be fixed as soon as possible. Will your government have a measure and a legal exercise in this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0056par0085	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0057par0087	Mr. President, thank you. Now, we have farmers on our Adana side, especially Ceyhan, Kozan, Imamoglu, who have farmed for many years, looking like a treasured land in Imamoglu. Even though the law was passed, their situation was not clear. Can the Minister say anything specific about this? Two: A month ago, there was a great hailing in that area, especially in the Imamoglu region. Have the agricultural district managers, county managers identified them, will they be helped? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0058par0091	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0059par0093	Thank you. Most of the mera in Malatiah were given to the great businessmen, even though the villagers object. In Akcadağ, Doğanşehir, now all the houses of Yazhan are rented. Now, the purpose of subletting is to encourage animalism by your side. However, livestock is a very important place in Malatya. Unfortunately, now, the plateaus are being tried to sublet those poor little animal manufacturers. On the one hand, when the great mera are given to the great businessmen, how can you afford to let the small animal manufacturers rent the plateau, which is actually very important to Malatya, which is vital to the development of production? Besides, what kind of thoughts do you have on supporting livestock on foot? For example, they produce in very difficult conditions, they have no water, they have no roads, they suffer a great loss. Do you have any work on animals on foot? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0060par0097	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0061par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it is said that you have promised 5,000 people specifically about the unassigned engineers, and I would like you to make a statement on that. And let me ask you something different. In this week's group talk, the Prime Minister said something called "Atheist Aleviler" (Atheist Aleviler). Later, Bolu said that the AKP's AKP Mayor, Germany and France had supported the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the past, and now he has organized Alevis. I want your opinion on this. We also expect our commissioner to make a statement about this.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0062par0102	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0063par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you plan on giving your nut strategy a hard-earned income fund to the nut growers who produce in licensed areas? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0064par0107	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0065par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, last year, we went to Turkmenbaşı village in Bismil district of Diyarbakır. There's a citizen down there, 2,600 acres. The men of another village -- the ones who were said to be close to the Minister -- have issued a false declaration of inheritance. After they issued a fake deed of inheritance, they sold the land to others, and they've been there for nine decades -- with the Ministry of Agriculture's knowledge -- they've been withdrawing money for nearly 10 trillion liras, and they don't support agriculture. He knows it himself. Now, that fake deed of inheritance was canceled later, but the cancellation case is still going on, and yet, they tell these people that he's close, I don't know if that's right or wrong -- the Department of Agriculture gives them a price of support every year for close to a trillion. Now, even though this kind of fraud has been known...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0064par0112	Thank you, Mr. Young. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. Mr. President, the most valuable MPs, of course, were in the area of Mugla a few days ago with the time-filled disaster in some of our other regions -- which occurred, of course, at the end of March, at the beginning of April, of many of our friends -- of our friends in the Black Sea, of course, in the region of Malatya, in the region of Turkey, about 60 Vilayati, the total area of Turkey, again, was affected in some way, as well as the total area of 600,000 hectare. There were natural disasters in March, when many of our farmers were affected by our producers who produced various branches. Now, about that... because a lot of our deputies actually asked about it. To our Treasury Ministry, the Deputy Prime Minister in Charge of Treasury... we've already taken the matter to the Council of Ministers... and a decision has been made regarding the postponement of our producers' debt to Agriculture Loan and Agriculture Bank... and the process is now under way. We, of course, made this decision without waiting for detailed damage reports, and that's how it's done. Of course, I have to say that all of the natural disasters that have been expressed -- the frosts, and the full -- are, in particular, the ones that took place in this last month -- are all covered by insurance, and the damaged ones are more fruit and most of the frost damage, unfortunately, are also full. They're both covered by insurance, and we pay at least 50 percent of the insurance price. I say at least 50 percent because, for example, the flowering period in the apricot, when you have a flower insurance policy, that grant is supported by up to 66-67 percent. So we're paying two-thirds of 100 lira as a grant, but unfortunately, not all of our manufacturers are getting insurance. And this, of course, has to be known by the public, so we're giving both kinds of support: we encourage insurance, we encourage insurance, we support insurance, we support grants. Among other things, our farmers, of course, can be helped, if different laws include Law 2090, for example. The process of the loan delay is under way. Other than that, we're currently awaiting the results of the damage assessment. Mr. President, is there a new arrangement for unemployed agricultural engineer, veterinary physicians, and how many of them are there? One, our friends first asked: I didn't say that 5,000 people would be taken, so let me correct it, I told you before, it didn't happen because I wasn't in charge of it.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0066par0118	It's on TV, Mr. Secretary. If I had the authority, I'd tell him, but the IRS, we'd demand the Treasury...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0067par0120	The Minister of Finance says there's no such request. Anyway, don't bother, you can't get in my way with the Minister of Finance. No, should I bring it in, the one you gave the motions to, the Minister of Finance? I don't intend to make peace with the Minister of Finance; there is no such thing. A total of 22,584, which was appointed within ten years of 2013, is 18,096, agricultural engineer and veterinary physicians. The number of agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians at the point we took over is 9.240. We increased these numbers by taking 18,000 people. In 2014, the total reached 25.755. The number of engineers is 17.950. This, of course, includes engineering's agricultural engineering, food engineering, fishing and water products engineering. We're going to have the Ministry of Finance's staff this year, and we're going to be doing it again in 2014...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0068par0125	How much did you ask for, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0069par0126	How much was your request? Now, we demand the norm staff we need.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0068par0128	We know that, Mr. Secretary. I mean, how much did you demand? See, that's what I'm saying. We know about them, Mr. Secretary. Look, after that, you, after that, friends express it as if it were a promise made. We didn't say that. No, here, how much do you want? Your services are failing, your services; you need them. We need over 5,000. We're reporting these demands, but we get staff opportunities, budgets, and that's all we get. Something was said about the village of Turkmenhacı. It's not the Turkmenhaji, it's the Turkmenhaji village.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0070par0135	Turkmenhacı, I said it wrong. It's in court. We were there to collect... But it's been going on for ten years. But, I mean, you'd appreciate that court... And why are you even paying for support? Mr. Young, we've stopped massing. So you paid 10 trillion dollars. No, no, that's not true. I went last year. Mr. Young, that information, that information, that's not true. Look, when there was a complaint at a time like this, we were already... there was a gathering, and that grouping was stopped over a complaint, and it was in court. It's not illegal or illegal at times like this. Another friend of ours is not listed in some counties. So, the law came in 2013. Some of the districts are not included. He made a statement about them. Of course, when we drafted the bill, we prepared these according to the number of counties on the TİK list. If there are zoning counties -- which have been formed -- the district has been separated from a district that exists on the list. Therefore, its value will be used. The arrangement within the new county limits will be based on this. In Malatiah, Mr. Agha asked if you had a measure for small farmers and poor families... where the mera were given to large corporations. Let me first say that there is a significant improvement in cattle and livestock in Malatya. I want to emphasize it first. For example, from 110 thousand to 130 thousand, and from 236 thousand to 290. It's expressed by new projects. As stated here, the information that the vast majority of Malatya's merchandises have been given to rent is also false. In Malatya, 4,200 hectares, given seasonal rentals, are not really very high.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0071par0147	It's not a small number, sir. It's 42,000 acres. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir)
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0072par0150	What happened in Adana? GEDA, PRIVATE AND ANIMALITY IS EXPLAINED IN TIME, MR. YIZIZIZIZ. So it's not time, it'll come out in due course.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0073par0152	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. I assume you'll answer the rest in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0074par0156	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit02spe0073par0157	You want roll call. Okay. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'll grant you a roll call before I submit it to your votes. Mr. Akar, Mr. Gök, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Acar, Mr. Light, Mr. Oz, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Sürmen, Mr. Spec Special, Mr. Demirçıray, Mr. Korutuk, Mr. Aldan, Mr. Acar. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0073par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough meeting in the roll call before the vote to transfer the bill to its articles. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We continue the talks of Bill 564. The commission and the government are in place. We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first section covers the framework between Article 1 and Article 8/G, which violates the framework with Article 5/G. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the first chapter. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0075par0019	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I'd like to share with you my thoughts on May 1st. Dear friends, May 1st is the day of unity, struggle and solidarity for all who are oppressed, especially workers and workers. May 1st is the day for the oppressed to rise. May 1st is the day of the resistance against the exploiting sovereigns. May 1st is the day the short trash gets its due from the long trash. May 1st is the day of a more beautiful, more beautiful, more just longing for order. For about a hundred and fifty years, laborers have been celebrating May 1st in their country's largest squares all over the world, as every year. It is the symbol of May 1st in our country. The workers of this country, the May 1st area for their laborers, is the Zombie Square, where the blood of dozens of trade unionists, revolutionaries has been shed, one of the most painful and massive massacres in our recent history. After many years, the division square was regained by the determined resistance and struggle of the workers. Thirty-three years later, when workers returned to the Zombie Square on May 1, 2010, they celebrated a peaceful holiday weather, May 1st, and shouted their demands. The AKP government and the Prime Minister must understand now; it is the May 1st area of İstanbul. Whether the AKP is in power or not, the workers of this country will not give up on the Salam Square and its demands. For those of you who have lost dozens of your friends in 1977 who have been on the road since 1976. Powers change, income passes, but this historical and social truth doesn't change. Being in Taxi is also an answer to massacrers and coupters; you have failed, you have failed, you will not succeed. AKP's May 1st poster, valued MPs, is here. What does it say? So what is it? The facts are revolutionary, and the AKP is as insincere about everything. Dear friends, I, as you all know, the Minister of Agriculture, has been to Malatya recently, and I am proud to say that not only Turkey...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0076par0024	Mr. President, the Minister of Agriculture is in no condition to listen, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0075par0025	Yeah, they're in conversation.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0077par0026	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0075par0027	I don't mind, they don't understand anyway. I'll keep talking to myself. I am the MP of the city where not only Turkey produces the most beautiful apricots in the world. I've told you so many times, tirelessly, tirelessly, that apricots are important to Malatia, that apricots for Malatian means life. On the other hand, as you all know, Malatya is a city where a variety of agricultural products are made with the most quality. Turkey's most famous Dalbast cherry is produced in Greenyurt, its most beautiful walnut in Hekimhan, its most beautiful diamond, its strawberries in Doğanşehir, its best grapes in Arabgir, its host, its host, its Banazı. Of course, as everyone in the world knows, the most beautiful apricots in the world are produced in Malatya. In Malatya, 10 million apricot trees produce about 350,000 tonnes of age and 110,000 tons of dry apricots. Malatya welcomes the entire production of both Turkey and the world's dry apricots. So Malatya has a very important place for both Turkey and the world in the production of apricots. Unfortunately, our farmers who produce such an important product are not getting paid for their efforts. For two and a half years, I've been talking about the apricot's problems, the solutions, every chance I get. And I speak of the apricot of Malatiah, and I speak of the bread of Malatiah, that he that resteth upon his ear may hear, and that he that lifteth not his hair may turn red, and that he may not be weary. But unfortunately, the government has always ignored the in-laws' problems, played the blind, the deaf. What I'm going to talk about today is the natural disaster affected by all of Turkey. Malatya has never seen such a disaster since Malatya. On 29-30-31 March Malatya froze, apricot frozen, cherry frozen, walnut frozen, apple frozen, grapes frozen, so the Malatians' lives froze, their hopes frozen. This frost disaster froze the future of the Malatians because it wasn't just the manufacturer who froze; the shopkeeper froze, the driver froze, the student froze. Dear lawmakers, the young are frozen, our children are frozen. It's not the first time the Malatian frost has met its full disaster. Before, these disasters were sometimes regional, sometimes they only hit part of the product; sometimes only apricots were affected, sometimes other fruits were affected. But this year's disaster, unfortunately, destroyed all of our products, all of our products, all of them, burned. To get your attention, I'd like to tell you that maybe this year the Malatians won't even be able to offer you a gift apricot. Dear friends, agricultural products have been burned in Malatya, animalism has already been destroyed and destroyed due to AKP policies. The small manufacturer is no longer able to breed. So, what will the Malatian do, how will he live? Unfortunately, the manufacturer owes everyone money, no manufacturers without debt. Some live from their wives, some from their friends, some from the bank, trying to survive. Hence, many manufacturers find it difficult to get TARSEM their products insured. The manufacturers, who are in debt to their spouses, who are in debt to their friends, stay away from TARSIM because the conditions are difficult and the premiums are expensive and the repayment is difficult. Thus, close to 45 per cent of the manufacturers in Malatya applied to TARSEM, and the other did not apply to TARSIM. Dear friends, I would like to reiterate that the frosting didn't just affect the apricot manufacturers, but the frost hit all the products that came in. Therefore, the state must see the Malatian's despair, and the state must find a cure for the situation the Malatian has fallen into. First of all, it must be immediately considered a disaster. Of course, this Disaster Law must be changed when it is considered a disaster. The TARSIM must be paid per acre without checking whether or not it was insured. All registered persons must be paid per acre. We don't want anything new from the government. There's an example of this in Turkey, not in Malatya. Just before the election, we saw it in the nuts a month ago; although there was no disaster, the AKP paid $170 for the pre-election nut. We want the same for the apricot. We're asking the government to solve the Malatian's problems because for hundreds of years, the Malatian has been producing it all the time, putting over $300 million in the government's pouch, in its safe every year. We've had a disaster this time, and we're waiting for the government to take care of the Malatian manufacturer. Dear friends, the Minister of Agriculture recently said that loans could be postponed here. That's not enough, good lawmakers, it's not enough that the loans are postponed because only that year's debts are being postponed. The Malatian has already been in debt for years, with the executive papers of many Malatian farmers. Therefore, it does not prevent the Malatian from falling asleep, but to delay his debts. What do you have to do about it? One: If debts from past years can be erased, so that it's not a lot of money for the Malatian, but when we see the events of the past 17 December, we can see how small it is for those debts to be erased. We always boast of the beauty of Malatya's apricots, the importance of her apricots. So without delay, without further sleep for the Malatians -- I beg you, I ask the House -- I ask you to find a solution to the problems of the Malatian apricot manufacturer and other manufacturers. Dear friends, of course, there's also the matter of electricity. There's a matter of electricity that the Malatian is not happy with, that's been cut off as the wind blows, that's the refrigerator, that's the TV on fire. The only thing electricity is serious about is collecting debt. In front of everyone in electricity, especially everyone who does agricultural production, they have to go to their homes, which must be postponed. Dear friends, we're bragging, we're talking, we're calling it malatya, but still, unfortunately, although the AKP has been in power for 12 years, the problem of irrigation in Malatian apricots and other agricultural products has not been solved. Look, I'd like to give you a striking example: Malatian bostan plants, tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers, bostans, but in many areas, unfortunately, the Malatian manufacturer now buys tomatoes, cucumbers from Malatian, greengrocers, Malatians can't produce them themselves. There are two reasons: there are no investments in irrigation, not only in watering apricots, but also in watering vegetables. Dear friends, I refer the Malatian, the Malatian that produces it, to the high council that needs the groceries, and I say shame on those who put the Malatian in this position. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0078par0043	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Adana MP Muharrem Varlı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr Varli.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0079par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, I have taken a pledge on the Council of Ministers bill, the Land Law, the Law on Land Protection, chapter one. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we are not against this law, this law is a positive law, it is a right law; what needs to be done is a positive law, in order to unite or prevent division of land from being divided by inheritance. But one thing to be careful about here: don't let this land be divided, let someone in the family take it. If no one in the family can take it, it's important to keep this land from falling into the hands of their fathers. To do that, the Bank of Agriculture has to support the farmer with loans or other supports to unite those divided lands, a protection such as this one must gather in one person, to prevent those farmers from passing the land to other people. I believe there will be an arrangement. There's a clause here that has something to do with the establishment of a family company, which is a positive clause, which supports it, but it's not quite enough, what I'm saying. The Bank of Agriculture must support it. If the farmer can't reach an agreement between the family, if he can't reach an agreement between the brothers, a brother should be able to take over the land by taking out a loan from the Bank of Agriculture. There has to be a study on that, too. Mr. Minister, you have come to Ceyhan district of Adana Province on March 21st. When you visited the Agriculture Room there, this is the CNS, the Agricultural Information System in a new language, you promised that when you were told about this problem, it would be resolved, that's what our friends there told us. Since yesterday, many people have called me from Ceyhan. Many farmers have called me. There is a great deal of trouble in this regard, and no one can get their CPS to do it. April 30 was the last date, a month extended, but so far, no one has been able to process the Agricultural Information System, as they say, about the CKS, although it has been postponed until May 30th. Why can't he? Because even though the island/partial Turkey is not wanted in many parts, there is such practice in Ceyhan, although many parts of Adana are not wanted. According to the island/partial system, the Agricultural Information System is required. And in this regard, farmers -- you know, you know, a lot of our deputies here know that they're divided between families. Here, from uncle to uncle to son, sir, from him to his father, from his father to his father, in the land that he owns, everyone has a share in each other. It's not possible to separate it, it's not possible to solve it. So, with the village-based statement of this as before, the farmer's approval and satellite detection, it's obvious whether the satellite is actually planting cotton, corn, or soybeans in that field, it can be detected by satellite. This needs to be resolved as soon as possible. May 30th is the deadline. Otherwise, our farmers will not be able to obtain this Agricultural Information System and thus receive bonus benefits. If such an application does not take place, 50% of farmers in Ceyhan district will not benefit from these benefits. You know how you're always bragging about it, Mr. Secretary? You're coming here because we're so supportive. Unfortunately, we are farmers who will not benefit from 50% of these benefits. So, this needs to be resolved quickly, back to the village-based system, back to the old system. We never want our government to be harmed, ever. If there's any indication of that, we'd like to find the most severe way to proceed. I can already see it from the satellite. According to the village chief and farmer's statement, the satellite is also being detected. Therefore, there is no harm done to the state. That's why we need to be with our farmers on this. Anyway, you all know, a lot of our friends have brought it up, so, there's an agricultural drought, and on March 29th, there was a freeze incident. There's too much damage to the wheat right now because of those panties. And because of the drought, there's too much damage to the wheat. Sunflowers don't grow. Sunflower, you know, is a plant that grows and produces itself with spring rains. Sunflower is standing still because it can't get rain right now. Snowblowers, I'm a farmer, we planted cotton, we didn't grow cotton because of the drought, we took it out again, we planted it again. They're all plus diesel input, plus fertilizer input, and it's costing the farmer extra. With regard to this agricultural drought, you must make sure that you have an identification in the area of Adana, in the region of Karataş, in the ovaries, in Ceyhan, in all the areas where the water farms are made as soon as possible. Because the wheat harvest is normally supposed to start a month later, but the wheat harvest is now in the Adana region, but there's no grain, there's no grain, there's no grain, there's no grain, and many of them are doing this to their animals. For him, there will be a tremendous decline in wheat production this year and our farmers will be victims. The only way to address this sacrifice is if our government owns our farmer. Remember, the most important thing in recent history will be grain, food. So oil is important, of course, energy is important, of course, but in the near future -- the number of people is increasing day by day -- how important the agricultural fields will be, how important the grain, how important the water will be, and how important it will be to you. So we need to quickly identify and support the wheat producers, the sunflower makers, the loss of the sunflowers. Again, it's not enough to postpone debts to the Agriculture Bank -- my friends have said that before -- we need to find a definitive solution. So it seems very difficult for the farmer to pay his debt to the Agriculture Bank this year, his debt to the agricultural loan because he doesn't have the product. Therefore, with agricultural loans, there must be a solution to the Farm Bank and to the farmer, a solution to the debtors' debt, and very low interest loans should be assigned to those who do not owe. This has got to happen. You have passed the 2/B Act on the sale of treasured land. The forest lands have been sold, but now the treasures are unknown. It's about all the cities, especially after they've taken out the Law of All the City, after they've taken out the Law of the City, they don't know what will happen to all the treasures that remain in all the cities. I just referred it to you as a question. Your government needs to come up with a solution as soon as possible. Farmers need to buy this land, not money fathers, interest lobbyists, dollar-rich people, shoe boxes, farmers need to buy it. For that reason, the government has to own it and make a decision in favor of the farmers as soon as possible, or God forbid, this land will come out of the hands of the farmers. Again, it's about the development of agricultural land... and maybe we'll have a motion in a little while, Mr. Secretary. It's very important, the farmland. I just told you, maybe in the near future, the most important thing in the world will be agriculture, grain, food, water. We have to protect these lands. I mean, the municipalities are building laws, they're building buildings, they're building buildings, they're building buildings, they're building concrete, they're building the most productive land they can think of. But it's less than a mile away or 500 meters away, when there's land to be built, where it can be used, it can be built, they go and build on the most fertile land. There's got to be a way to avoid it, and there's got to be a study about it, law enforcement. We need to protect our land, we need to protect our farmer, because the soil is a product that gives the farmer crops, which allows the farmer to produce. If we can't protect it, if we can't protect the farmer, how can we produce it, how can we provide our own food, our own competency? So, see, corn is imported, corn is ruined, cotton is imported, cotton is ruined. Now, this year we're going to have to make wheat. You're going to say, you're going to import wheat, the wheat producer is miserable. So, how does this farmer make money, how does he get enough, how does he feed his children, how does he pay for their education? Therefore, we must protect our farmer so that our farmer can produce and feed our society. If we eat good fruit in our home today, if we cook with beautiful vegetables in our home today, if our bread is hot and our food is on our table today, farmers are the producers of all this. Farmers go to the field at five in the morning, work, produce, provide people with food, no matter how much rain, no mud, no cold. So, we have to protect our farmers, and this says it's our most important mission, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0080par0061	Thank you, Mr Varli. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Alton Tan. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0081par0065	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I've been promised a few more times about the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, and today I'd like to share with you the opinion of our party regarding the amendments to the agenda. Dear friends, at the beginning of the most important wealth of Turkey, agriculture and livestock are coming, and for many years we boasted to the world that we are one of the rare countries in the world that do not import food. Sometimes we pronounce it by the number of five countries, sometimes we pronounce it by the number of 7 countries. But, unfortunately, at this point today, we can't say that. We've got a lot of land, a lot of it, and it still can't be watered, and unfortunately, no matter how much we play with numbers, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister, no matter how much they tell us a success story about these things, we're still a country that imports straw, imports living animals, imports rice. And again, no matter how much we play with numbers, the amount of agricultural products we sell out, the amount we buy, the amount we produce, the amount we produce, the comparison we produce with the developed countries of the world. For example, to illustrate a number of countries: today, a France, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, and most importantly, in the United States industry, in technology, in other places of commerce, in production, they maintain the same claim in agriculture and animalism. Here, it's been written over and over again, and it's said that only Dutch exports related to agricultural and animal products are worth 85 billion dollars a year on plant products. So you play with numbers all you want here, here I admire you, you're a victim to me. After all, there are production figures on the world scale, there are Turkey's own production figures, Turkey has imports on this issue, there are export figures on this issue. I mean, we can't change that with a polemic or a pun or makeup. Dear friends, land reform has now been debated for years in Turkey since the period of the Baunt Ecevit governments, especially since the first years of Turkey's left, but at the moment we are here today, the whole world accepts that the small lands are no longer productive for the production of 5, 10, 20, 50 acres, as well as for the working areas. In that sense, the reunification of the land is a positive logic. I mean, we're not here to give a reverse answer to positive logic or to talk about the old arguments of the old world, but today, we have to talk about what you're doing in the name of collectiveization, what's missing, what's wrong with it, what's wrong with it, what's wrong with it. Now, before I made a promise, I looked at enough income agricultural land. So when we look at what was done, what was done, what was done, from Rize to Mughla, Edirne to Urbana, we see that the amount of land in Şanlıurfa is the same as the amount of land in Diyarbakir. So, a ten-acre tea garden and a 100-acre farmland in Şanliurfa, almost in the watery and thirsty category, were placed in the same category, followed by a clause, which can be replaced by the proper opinion of the Council of Ministers. So, why are you putting this back under the authority of the Council of Ministers, why are you taking the road so far? I mean, who's got 100 acres, 200 acres, 500 acres of tea garden or nut garden in Rize? Is there? I mean, there are fellow Black Sea MPs here...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0082par0069	No.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0083par0070	No.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0081par0071	You, there are 60 acres and 70 acres in the same category as a 60 or 70 acres in Şanliurfa? I mean, the first one's wrong. There's a classic folk phrase: one minute, one goal. And then we saw it, but we can fix it like this. You put in an additive, you activate the Council of Ministers, you activate the Ministry's permission. Dear friends, there's no need to take the road so far. A second issue is about the size of agricultural land today: Again, these numbers are 45.7 hectares in Germany, 457 acres, with the figures our people understand, 457 acres in France, 521 acres in the UK, 538 acres in the UK. And these numbers that you're thinking about for Turkey, they're not answering the need again, they're not meeting the need again. You don't have more practical suggestions or preparation to solve domestic problems, conflicts. I mean, you're setting up options like co-selling, starting a family company, taking the rights of a brother or an heir, but when there's a conflict on these issues, how can this be resolved, and there's no clear and decisive solution to that, unfortunately. Dear friends, again, we are constantly ignoring land reform, gathering, better production, as we discuss them: today, the greatest aga, the state Agha in Turkey! The treasure is the greatest Agha in Turkey today. Half of the land that still sees cadastros is registered in the name of the state, and I'm calling to Mr. Minister here: Today, starting from Mazıdağı, we have a land, geography, which is made up of oaky and usually small vineyards, which are produced from the Mardin border of Çınar district of Diyarbakır, starting today. There's great peanut production here, there's almond production, it's very small, it's done in certain places, but again, go, look in the naked eye today -- you don't need to measure it -- 70 percent of what we call a market, 80 percent of the land is registered in the treasury or in the mera status, all of that is empty. So, in the landscape between almonds, about peanutism, about grapes, Midyat, Dargesit (Kerboran), Idil, Gercush, Savur, Ömerli, Mardin and Diyarbakır, Bend, Piran, Hani, because they are similar -- large farms that can be created -- there are at least 1,000 acres of farms, 2,000 acres of farms, villages, cooperatives, companies -- that can be talked about later in the world. But in the geography that I'm talking about, I'm going to say that almost all of these treasures are considered empty, just as mera, as a meadow; and it's not exactly considered a meadow; it's not considered a meadow, so the oak is abandoned in the coat of the machi, in the frame of its oaks, so it's abandoned to its fate. Again, my dear friends, there was a story of mine removal in our area. There's a Syrian border about 900 kilometers. For years, this mined land has been cleared. There are millions of acres here. Why doesn't the government come forward and say so? Well, come and tell the truth, and say: "We don't want the Kurds and the Kurds here to merge. Let there be so much land that these two people will unite, that they will be integrated. They will not admit it, they will not be able to do it, dear friends. A friend of ours just told us that Diyarbakır is in the middle of the city -- there are treasures in the city centers, there are meadows. Example: Diyarbakır Dicle University is 26 thousand and 27,000 acres; there are still places in which there are mera status. Yeah, how about a mera in college? Some of these were removed, some weren't removed, I have a list. I don't know if the Minister knows anything about this. No one knows why these people weren't removed. I mean, for example, if there are 10 islands, if there are parcels, these parcels -- 300 acres, 400 acres, 500 acres -- were removed from the quality of the mera, registered in the name of the treasure, but some of it wasn't removed, it's in the same way. You're asking, why did you do this to the manager in Diyarbakir? There is no satisfactory answer on that subject, and those registered for this treasure were given to the University of Dicle. You're going to build a dorm in Diyarbakır, no stockpile, no land; you're going to build a school, no land. 90% of Dicle University is currently empty. Yes, dear friends, there's so much to tell, time's up. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0084par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Balıkesir MP Tülay Babushcu. Here you go, Mr. Pop-Pop.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0085par0084	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the first chapter of the First Amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law and Turkish Civil Law. I hereby salute your high council. The number of agricultural businesses in our country, and the smallness of businesses, are at the top of the most important problems in the agricultural sector. Our average business sizes in our country have become smaller and smaller because of the division of our agricultural land through inheritance. There are 3 million agricultural businesses in our country, which have about 30 million parcels. 83 per cent of these businesses are less than 100 per cent and 65 per cent have less than 50 per cent of the land. Our average operating size is 59. In developed countries, the average business size is 5 to 10 times that number. The loss of agricultural mechanics due to the fragmentation of agricultural land is 17 billion euros per year, along with the loss of production due to the property problem, which can't be operated because it's too small. These are the ones that were initiated to prevent the division of agricultural land through inheritance, and rather than the specification of the agricultural land inherited by the Turkish Civil Code, which is adopted in our own civil law, they brought in a bill of legislation, which was thought would be more appropriate to hand over the ownership of business property to the heirs: The implementation of Act 5403 shall be carried out if agricultural land is an issue of inheritance. Agricultural land cannot be divided under the size of sufficient income agricultural land set by the Ministry, given the region's differences. In terms of the age of ownership of agricultural land, the heirs are to be able to negotiate within a year of the opening of the inheritance. In connection with the ownership of agricultural land, the heirs were arranged to be able to agree on the establishment of family property or limited enterprises with which the agreement was made, or to sell the land of agriculture to the third party. If the transfer process is not completed within a year of the opening of the estate, the ministry may file a lawsuit after three months in case the parties can sue or not sue the court of justice. It is arranged by the magistrate to determine which heir will be handed over if no agreement can be reached among the heirs. In this case, the transfer of the company's rightful heir to the most willing heir, given its age on agricultural value, if not to have a rightful heir, has been arranged to ensure the sale if the heir is not willing. The absolute, marginal and private product fields still in the current practice have been established that there can be no new parcels and shares under these sizes, where there are 20 decauts and five marks of farms and under-casual farmland. The heir who acquired agricultural land paid for his inheritance to the other heirs within a year, at the latest, from the decision of the magistrate. The right of use of the land is arranged by the magistrate to give one heir or a third person a measure in case he becomes an heir without the power to distinguish. If there are those who can't afford to pay their share of the estates that have been handed over to him, then loans are being provided for them. In the case of the person who bequeaths the inheritance, the inheritance of the heir to the estate is equitable to the heir who has to pay his share to the other heirs. Its aim is to protect the land, improve its farmland, categorize its minimum agricultural land and determine the size of sufficient income agricultural land and prevent division, and I respectfully salute your high delegation, which our bill, which is to determine our country's farmers, our country's economy, to help its farmer, to help its country's economy, to determine the method and the use of agricultural land with sufficient income in accordance with the principle of environmental sustainable development.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0086par0100	Thank you, Mr. Pop-Pop. On behalf of him, Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0087par0104	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Land Protection and Land Use Bill, ranking 564. I salute your high council. As we say in the commissions, we're really looking at this as a national issue. This has been Turkey's bleeding wound for many years, because, unfortunately, all conditions that could compete with the world's farmer have been eliminated, as our land has been split down and down and down. Now, when we look at it, in Turkey, therefore, because it's small, it can't be used for nearly 2 million hectares of land, which causes a lot of loss of efficiency. Compared to the world, there is work on land today that is related to 5.9 hectares. So, when we look at Europe, we see numbers like 538 acres in England, 521 acres in France, 457 acres in Germany. Now, I'd like to talk about this: of course, they reveal the reality of the situation Turkey is in. The minister also mentions a loss of like 17 billion dollars a year -- because of the unusable land and because of the lack of Rantabulary -- every year. Now, if $17 billion is missing every year... it's a pity that the Justice and Development Party has ruled this country for 12 years, and for the past seven and a half and eight years, our Minister of Agriculture is the Minister of Agriculture, and I thank you for bringing this law, but it's a law that is missing. 2/B is the bleeding wound of Turkey. We said, "If you don't do the right work on this, we'll both be victims of this law and we'll have trouble implementing it." We'll face the same problems here. But it's not just the Minister's fault. Because there's no way in Turkey that you can solve the problems of agriculture without solving them, Mr. Secretary. In Turkey, right now, agriculture is dying, farmers are crying blood. As long as we don't fix them, we'll see that they apply them tomorrow, we'll face serious difficulties. Today, we say we're going to create these conditions by comparing them to developed countries, but how is our farmer going to take these places today? Now I'm asking you: in debt, the farmer borrowed money, borrowed money from the Agriculture Bank, mortgaged his property to private banks who weren't satisfied. Now, here, sometimes, Mr. Secretary comes out, comparing the supports made in 2002 and before, and today's support, making an assessment of numbers and statistics. I'll give you the field. You can talk numbers, you can flip numbers, but unfortunately, the field is not what the Minister thinks it is, nor the Justice and Development Party, but it's a completely different picture. At this moment, the Turkish farmer, Turkish agriculture, is living through the worst period in the history of the republic, I assure you. Thousands, millions of farmers have given up their farms, everyone's in debt, into a pile of debt. It's about the wrong policies. Today, I'm asking you: Now, look at the increase in medicine, fertilizer, diesel, the basic inputs of agriculture. Today, the Central Bank said 7.6 per cent of inflation in Turkey, saying 7.6 as of the end of the year, but inflation in agriculture found 35-40 per cent. Today, look at the price of fertilizer, look at the prices of medicine, in an environment that hits 35 to 40 percent. Anyway, in a farmer who lives under the burden of his future products, his three-four-year-old products, Mr. Secretary, do you have the chance to apply them? Now, you've published a painting here. In this painting, we are in a hurry to discuss these laws, a painting that was made before the entire city passed the law, where many counties are missing, there are districts in newly established cities, they don't exist. After that, for example, I say to you here, because I know Adana well: He talks of 80 acres in Aladağ, in the watery land, and of 175 acres in the dry land; and Çukurova does the same thing, and so does the Hurlbeyli. It is impossible to find 70 acres of watery land in all of the Lord of the Flood. If you find 150 acres of dry land in Aladağ, kiss it and put it on your head. Now, in an environment where these things happen, you bring in a law that really deserves it, you bring in the right law, but there's a serious lack of practice. I want these applications to be known that you will face serious problems tomorrow. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0088par0114	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the government, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehdi Eker. Here you go, Mr. Eker. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The next bill is a very fundamental design about the future of Turkey's agriculture, about the future of Turkish agriculture, and it is really very important, and it aims to solve a problem that has been piling up over many years. It's a national issue, outside of political debates, outside of political parties' own policies, that's the future of all of us. Because, dear friends, in no developed country in the world, there is no ground regime like ours. See, in England, they hand over the land to the oldest brother, the land is not divided, the average business size is 53.8 hectares, France 52.1 hectares; one of the brothers pays the market price for the other. I'm also saying, you know, what is the regime in developed countries, how do they solve it, how do they solve it in history? In Germany, 45.7 hectares, one of the brothers pays a small compensation. Spain is handed over to its rightful heir 23.8 hectares. Italy is handed over to its rightful heir. In the United States, 181.8 hectares are sold for average operating, average farm, and price. Turkey is 5.9 hectares. 5.9 hectares is the average business size in my country, so it's 59 acres. Of all the countries I've just counted in Europe, the closest one to us is four times the difference. Now, we'll compete with them. The first condition is efficiency. The most important factor that affects efficiency is the scale economy. If our land is torn apart, what technology can we use if it's blown apart? We can't use machines here, we can't invest. Look, 3 million agricultural businesses are divided into 30 million parcels. We don't have 5.9 hectares of businesses, we don't have one parcel, we have 10 parcels. It's divided into 30 million parcels and has 40 million heirs, 40 million owners, shareholders. Such a tragedy, such a situation. I wish, 30 years ago, 40 years ago, this law had been passed, but today, at least today, we brought it before the Supreme Assembly, and I see from the talks so far that, in general, the spirit of this bill, on the basis of this bill, the opposition, the power, all of our parties have an agreement here, which is pleasing, and that's what I'm happy to say. Now, dear friends, in Turkey, we give money to the farmer who registers his land; the farmer comes into the Recording System, gets involved, and we pay for it. Look, there are 23 million 800,000 hectares of farmland in Turkey, about 24 million hectares. So far, the part of this that has been registered in the Farmer's Registering System is about 15 million hectares. Where are the 9 million hectares? 9 million hectares are unregistered. Why? The reason is that 6.3 million is not owned by individuals or corporate individuals, or because of the problems between shareholders or because it is too small, it is no longer possible to operate, it can't be operated, it can't be used. My congressman friends come here and say: "There are no 2 million hectares of land in Turkey." Right, it's all true, but that's because there's no law, that's why there's no law. Since division is free in Turkey, so far this has come in this way. Now, 2.7 million hectares of land that belongs to the treasure, which is used to pay for illegals or excises. So, if this 9 million hectares of law is enforced and rehabilitated, it can be used to collect the results, but most importantly, at least we will secure the remaining land. Because 65% of the 3 million businesses in Turkey own less than 50 per cent of the land and 83 per cent have less than 100 per cent of the land. Therefore, we must, of course, make it legal and develop the solution together as soon as possible. This, of course, has done a lot of damage. What I'm referring to in the Commission is roughly $17 billion, which is just a lack of extra diesel, which the tractor spends traveling through these fields -- because it's extremely small -- and because it's not efficient. Or at a far more advanced point, we can say that the damage is much greater when it's calculated through a real economic value. Well, haven't we packed it up by now? Dear friends, Turkey was able to collect 450,000 hectares from 1961 to 2003. About 10,000 hectares a year. We have completed the collection of 4 million hectares of farmland since 2003. 2 million hectares are being done now, which will be delivered to you by the end of this year, 6 million hectares, but that's not enough, because as long as the division continues, you'll appreciate that there's no point at all on the other side. So what we care about here is that we suggest that, according to the land districts, let's say it's watery, dry, obelisked, that it's big enough to feed a family according to the categories of vineyards, gardens, and covers, that it doesn't fall under it. Our measurement is a very simple measurement. Agricultural income per person is $3,650, last year's figure. Four times that should provide us with at least one income, a business, an agricultural land. Four times that, today's business is about 31,000 Turkish liras with current currency. 31,000 Turkish liras should provide us with a income that will provide the belly of a family of four to the minimum when farming in the village...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0089par0125	That's a little low. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Secondly), but even him is being contested. It's like a tea-pot account! We'll know the facts of Turkey. So when we did that a lot more, this time, for example, my friends came in a little while ago, they even judged it, so that's very big, etcetera. So we had friends who said, "There is no such land. Now, therefore... We need to assess the situation of the land. Please excuse me. So that's the minimum here. But the growing figure will be that the Council of Ministers will be able to download and remove these rates in line with increasing needs. We bring in two basic issues, and we say, "First, the heirs should agree between themselves, and then they can hand over the property to the heir who has been agreed upon, and they can form a family property partnership -- an application that is in our Law of Civil Law -- to form a limited company, or to make a common use of it, or to sell it to someone they agree with, to the third party." If they can't do any of those things, so if they're not doing any of those four options, then the ministry can give the parties three months to sue if they can sue or not in a court of law. Here are the terms of the heir to the peace law, the rightful heir or the willing heir... in accordance with the regulations. A concern has been raised about women. Don't worry about it. In detail, we'll bring the arrangement to protect the women's rights and provide them with additional opportunities. The heir and the willing heir are two different things. And the heir of the people of the right hand shall not be an heir except to him who has wealth. Let's stress that in particular. His profession, his art, his occupation, living in the village... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish a sentence.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0090par0137	I'll give you two minutes. Here you go. So the wealthy heir here is not just the farmer or the heir who has money. This is exactly the kind of person who can do that farming with integrity, maintain that land and run it. Of course, he will pay his share to his other siblings, the other heirs. A concern has been raised here. We've done his math. We also envision an arrangement that will provide credit if the rightful heir has a payment problem. So we're bringing in an arrangement that he can buy. It's a big deal again. Because such arrangements will be needed. Our goal here is not to let the farmland fall below a certain scale. That's how we can get ahead of the extreme migration. Because otherwise, when the land is too small to feed, people go to cities without control. So let's have enough business here to feed him, and at least we can keep him there, in that agricultural sector, who can feed him. That's the law we've come up with as a matter of essence. There are supporting measures, detailed regulations will already be made in the regulation, and this is an arrangement that Turkey really needs. I, for one, would like to thank everyone, all of our MPs, for their valuable views and contributions. I wish him well for our nation. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Eker. In the name of his personal name, Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a vow to express my views on Land Protection and Land Use Law 564 rows under discussion and the Amendment to the Turkish Civil Law. On behalf of myself, I salute you all. Now, of course, Mr. Secretary has just explained and explained. The land is very important, the land is very important from the past to the present, and the right to use is very important, and because of this land, families are hostile, families are intertwined, and families are forced to migrate. That's why we have to protect the land. But while we're protecting the land, we need to consider our valued lawmakers and regional factors. Now, see, the person with five acres of land in the Black Sea region is the owner of the productive Plain of Harran, or the owner of the Plain of Conium, or owner of the Plain of Ergene. Because the land in the Black Sea Area is narrow and scarce and unable to develop, and especially after the All-city Law, there should be effort at the redefinement point, where it is planned and unplanned, but from the work that's been done, it seems to be the work done before the Metropolitan Law. Therefore, in the study of the Black Sea Region, it is imperative that we assess the planned construction of the island on the part of the city and the unplanned areas that remain outside the city. Now, Mr. Secretary has said some very nice things. Of course, the land is protected in Europe, but the man who looks after the land, the man who produces it, is protected and encouraged. They, too, are contributing to their economy, not to emigrate somewhere, but to the Black Sea region, or to Tripoli, dear friends. See, the narrowing terrain... it has to migrate when it doesn't get what it deserves when it's produced, but it's also paying back its land many times in order to get a runt in urban transformation because its product doesn't feed its food. What does he do when he's not fed? Let my land be valued, let me give it to the developer in the urban area, let me get four or five apartments, and I'll keep on living with the rent I'm going to buy there or the apartment I'm selling there for a while, he thinks. That's the way to think about it. I mean, that's the way it's supposed to be when we're dealing with this regionally. Now, he's already gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone. We have a nut. My dear Malatya MP friend, he said apricots, apricots, but he's lucky we're the ones who get apricots on planes, and they don't get nuts on planes.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0092par0155	That's with my hard work.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0156	Planes need nuts, too. Apricots and nuts are brothers. (CHP turns to applause) Because they also have significant contributions to human health, as well as to economics.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0092par0157	We're giving it away for nothing. Apricots don't pay, they get it for free.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0158	Mr. Minister, now, you know that in Turkey, 322,000 producers are producing nuts in our country, and 2 million people are getting income from nuts, and again, our country is making $2 billion in revenues. But what we think, the government thinks: let's not produce a producer, let's give him our field-based support, let's put our production-based support aside. Now, I'm not getting in the mood for tea.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0093par0160	Brother, he's right to give nuts to planes.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0161	Osman, I'll tell you later.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0093par0162	Brother Volcano, I agree with you, I support you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0163	Thank you, Osman, with a sense of sports.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0094par0164	Why, nuts are good for sports?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0091par0165	Now, look, on 29-30-31 March, as everywhere, the nuts were frosted, and the experts were still unable to complete their work. Mr. Secretary, the experts need to complete these studies as soon as possible. Now, you said, well, we got TARSIM out, so we built an Agricultural Insurance Pool about agriculture, and we're giving 50% of it to the manufacturer. That's right. And what will happen to those who don't have agricultural insurance for various reasons or economic reasons, Mr. Secretary? Then we need to fix the situation because the government exists for the present. And don't let people's futures get blacked out because of the frost, because nuts are a tradition first of all, tradition, and nut people don't leave them in the field and collect them. They will, but they'll pay to collect on it. So the nut needs to get its share, and people who don't have insurance for various reasons have to be paid for free, and their debt to the Agriculture Bank, private banks, agricultural loan co-ops, electricity debt and insurance premiums should be suspended, and they need to be backed up with long-term interest-free loans. If we do this, the nut maker will claim the land, and people will claim it, and tomorrow I celebrate May 1st, Labor Day, as they greet you all with love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0095par0170	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. In chapter one, I'll take 15 minutes to answer, seven minutes to questions, eight minutes to answer. Sir, first Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0096par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your reign, the peasant's debt is constantly increasing. Do you have any work on lowering the villager's entry costs? Again, product prices are very low. Are you particularly interested in supporting citrus, greenhouse products, and fruit exports of aged vegetables? Besides, there's a very serious conflict between the law you brought in and the Metropolitan Law you passed two years ago. Now, with this law in effect, especially in the major cities, all citizens will press the municipalities to include their own land in the development. In this regard, it is impossible to apply this law in a significant part of Turkey, in 30 major cities. Do you plan on doing any of this work within the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0097par0176	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0098par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in my constituency, Kastamon, especially when the harvest season came, even though we did all the infrastructure work, we couldn't get into the office last year. And that's why this year, our farmer has suffered a serious loss. We now ask you to accept this promise and to purchase the office at Kastamon, my constituency. Another issue is under TARGEL personnel. These are the personnel he has to serve to improve agriculture in the countryside. Again, in my constituency, all of these personnel are either in district centers or city centers. Has this practice been abandoned, or will it be repeated in their field? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0099par0182	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0100par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the current situation, has there been a measure for divided land? What kind of application is there in the bill for the merger of smaller land right now? As far as I'm concerned, nothing's showing. Second: How has the distribution of land collections and expenditures so far been distributed according to the districts? So at least how much land were you able to gather while you were in office as the Ministry, where could you do that? And how has the size of the land that hasn't been planted in the last three years changed? It is known that there is a significant increase in land that has not been planted. What reasons do you find most important? What solution do you have in mind?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0101par0188	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Yilmaz... no. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0102par0191	Mr. President, thank you. Now I'd like to ask Mr. Minister this question: this law is the law of unification, of massization, but in Turkey there are fields, fields that are not planted, not mowed, not mowed, not driven because there are so many, they can't plant, they can't cope. On these fields, we're combining over the land. When you say that there's a lot of this land, do you plan to divide it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0103par0195	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0104par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the recent hailing disaster in Izmir and Manisa, a major share in the production of cherries, has arrived during the harvest, and our cherry has been damaged by up to 80 percent. In particular, I demand immediate completion of the necessary detection of the losses, delaying debts, and supports due to the hailing disaster in the neighborhoods of our Manisa, Sandzaklubozköy, Sandzakluğdecik, Karağlanlı, Çeşmebaş, Çobanisa. I'm inviting the Ministry on duty. Last year, in Manisa, we had many disasters in our ties in Alaşehir and Sarıgöl. Mr. Secretary, you came and found it in place, you visited our disaster villages, and you said it had to be declared a disaster zone. What was done about it last year? What do you intend to do in these areas of disaster this year?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0105par0201	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0106par0203	Thank you. I'm asking the question again: Now, there is the village of Turkmenhacı in Bismil, Diyarbakır, this is the village of Alevi. A citizen is dying in this village. He owns 2,600 acres. He's got kids. Some of the villages next door go, and with the support of judges and lawyers, they say: "We are the heirs of this man. " They identify themselves and sell these lands. It's a ten-year thing. There are judges here, there are lawyers, there are politicians, and they get about 10 trillion dollars a decade without farming support. Now these citizens have been struggling for ten years. These are the Minister's villagers, the ones who bought that fake deed to the nearby villagers. Why isn't the Minister making any effort to speed up these cases? Again, with this gathering, they say, will they take our land and gather it again with other villagers and take it away from us? It's really weird.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0107par0207	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Ali Oz... no. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0108par0210	Mr. Secretary, in your speech earlier, you called this a national matter, a national matter indeed. You're comparing our soil regime to the soil regime in developed countries, and that's okay, that's right, we're four times the minimum. But, unfortunately, you've been in power for 12 years. This habit, I suppose, is usually a habit of complaining, as if there was another government, and you have the same attitude. Why haven't you done this in 12 years, and you've been Minister for more or less seven years? I wish he'd left ten years ago. You say, yes, I wish he'd left thirty years ago, but you're responsible for twelve years. I wanted to share this with you at first. Again, we've identified minimum numbers by enforcing and division. You say, and you say, with these minimum numbers, there's a amount that that that family can live on, but when you look at the income index, the income index in the Hakkari, the income index in Kopeli, and the income index in Rize, we see that there are different income indexes for people who deal with agriculture. How do you rate it in the same category?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0107par0212	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Erdogan has something to say about input support. We, of course, support producers in the need for diesel and fertilizer and loan-certified seeds, which are based on field-based activities. For example, what we pay in fertilizer and pay in mazota -- just this year -- is about 1.5 billion Turkish liras in 2014. So, these pens make up about 1.5 billion parts of the total agricultural support we're paying, diesel and fertilizer. The certified seed is used in the same way, supported; we also provide certified seed support for the user and the manufacturer. One more thing: there was talk of fertilizer prices. Here, of course, fertilizer support, for example, has been increased by 10% in 2014 and has been covered by about 15 per cent of the average cost of fertilizer in 2014. You can appreciate that there's not a single input in production, so there's a lot of production... yeah, big pens, diesel, fertilizer, seeds, etc., but there are other factors, there are other input pens, there are other input pens, there are also used. It's a credit card entry, so you get paid. Between 2003-2013, a total of 93.1 billion euros was used for agricultural loans to the Turkish farmer, and its interest is at a rate of between 0 and 8.25. The difference is being paid by the Ministry, by the government, by the Bank of Agriculture and the Agriculture Loan. He mentioned a concern in the capital city that this law would cause problems, Mr. Erdogan. In fact, we, of course, considered all of these factors. A joke has been added to Law 5403 issued in 2005, and with this added joke, the Agricultural Law is clearly under the control of the Agricultural Law, which cannot be used outside of agricultural purpose without permissions specified in the Law on Land Protection and Land Use. Therefore, there is no opening of agricultural land with arbitrary zoning plans. They say that some of our friends are saying that with growth, with the new status of cities, with the great city, we've already guaranteed that with the sentence we've added, and all of these conditions are subject to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use. I'd like to express that, too. At Kastamonon, the Earth crop office: If necessary, Congressman, we will open it.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0109par0219	Last year...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0110par0220	Here's the deal, sir: 94 tons were now purchased in 2010. In 2011, there was no purchase in 2012. It didn't open in 2013 because there was no demand. So you can imagine that you're building a facility for buying, hiring, hiring, paying for it, if it doesn't come to you, it's a certain amount -- enough to save that expense -- then it's an added burden to the treasure, an additional burden to the nation, an additional load of money, and that's not true. It's because there's not enough product. The opening cost of a temporary acquisition centre -- even the temporary acquisition centre -- is a minimum of 216 thousand Turkish liras. So there's got to be something that can save this, so it can be done. We make temporary purchases when needed, so we make room. Don't worry about it. We can build a permanent facility if we have to. TARGEL personnel have 119 TARGEL personnel, 37 vets, 82 engineers. If they're being used in the wrong place, out of the village, outside of the temporary very special needs, that's wrong. We would never consent to their assignment anywhere else, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0111par0223	It's used in the centers. We're going to look at them. If we detect such a situation, we'll do the necessary work on them. I'd like to express that, too. Mr. Kutluata actually said it here, but we didn't have a chance to respond. Now, in the current structure of our divided structure, if it's above the existing norms, it'll be subject to this new law from now on. But underneath that, if it's small, then we're going to do it through addition, and we're going to do it by developing new mechanisms, which means that the Ministry's administration will actually operate as a new land-building agency, which means it's going to be able to lead, and it's going to help. You know, with the credit mechanisms, with the...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0112par0227	We have to encourage this, not if we don't encourage it. That's how the temptation's going to be. So, he'll be saved in the present situation with credit opportunities and the ability to collect. Now, in the cherry production of the manisa, and in the other Aegean region of Kemalpaşa, etc., it happened in some places. There's been a delay in debt around here. You know, it's full of cherries, and other products are covered by agricultural insurance, and we're already paying half that insurance. Last year, there was a delay in debt due to the disaster that took place there. The debt of 3,835 people has been postponed in Manisa, in the undergarments of 2013. The TARSIM was also paid 91 million lira compensation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There was also a collection payment of 91 million liras from Tarsim. The next thing you know, they're gonna have a loan delay. We'll continue the rest.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0113par0234	All right, you'll answer in writing. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are two motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Act 564, row 1. We propose that the statement of agricultural land in its matter be changed to agricultural land. Ali Riza Özturk İlhan Demiröz Muharrem Işim Veli Ağbaba Kamer Young Levent Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the Article 1 of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law and Changes in Turkish Civil Law in the following way. Ali Öz Emin Çınar Oktay Özturk Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yilmaz Ali Halaman Article 1 - 3/7/2005 and Article 1 of Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403 have been changed as follows. ▪ The aim of this law is to determine the method and basis for the protection, development of land, categorisation of agricultural land, the minimum agricultural land, and the determination of adequate agricultural land sizes and the prevention of subsistence, increasing efficiency in agriculture, agricultural land and adequate income farmland in accordance with the principle of primary sustainable development. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Halaman, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0114par0261	Mr. President, thank you. I have made a promise on the 1st amendment of Law Bill 564, which is the motion that we have made. I salute you all with respect and love. This law is the basic law, 25 articles, 2 parts. We usually made a motion on Article 1. The reason for the motion is against matter... here is the 1st article, which aims to determine the basis for the development of land protection, development, categorization of agricultural land, sufficient incomes. So it's the law of combining the land, massing it. Now, the general rule of the law says that it is good to present it to watery farmlands or attractive land, again, in the public name, while it is often done by giving examples of countries such as America, Britain, France, Germany; in the West, in the developed countries, it says that there are few farmers in those countries. The people who live in the village in the West are few, and we are many. He makes the villagers migrate to the city by saying, "We have a lot." So they've already eliminated the corporate personalities of the village -- offering to increase unemployment, proliferation of unemployed people, minimum wage. And then you didn't take good care of your field, you didn't cut well, you kept doing damage, so you want protection from the Ministry; we can't do that as Ministry. You've got companies, companies, people who want to do it, sell it to them. It's called law. If you want to work, work for minimum wage -- because you can't -- they'll give you jobs. He says that's the issue of the law. Now, this law is a little bit like the laws of urban transformation that came before this. There are mall centers after the urban transformation. It's kind of like a law that aims to set up mall centers. In this society, after urban transformation, after the establishment of mall centers, is this community pleased with this law? Now, isn't that the law of looking at land enough to influence global capital, capitalist market understanding, to support the farmer's income? Now, as AKP power, for 12 years, you've solved the fertilizer business of this farmer, the farmers, the charming farmers, the fertilizers? Did you properly sell the agricultural medicine the farmer used? Did you take care of the seed? For example, you've recently made a special law, you've given Cargill's company a private place, Pioneer's company, to provide for Turkey's seed needs? You've solved the problem of the agricultural bank, agriculture and loan co-ops, or the farmer who moans under interest of interim interest, and that's what's left of the law? Did you look at the farmer's tractor or did you look at his scallops? You've solved the problems of farmers and made the fields in this country unplanted by reform work? I have increased income in my field. It's tried. If the income has increased, why is it that farmers can't plant their fields? Then why do you tell farmers to sell the land? More exports in the citrus? Recently, in April, in our Adana region in our February -- there's a species of Valencia, there's a type of Tripoli -- these oranges were left behind because they weren't sold, so they fell down at the bottom of the tree. Where did exports come from? Who buys oranges, sells them? So, this law -- the network system of the language -- is a law that is brought before us today to create networks with ties. I, however, wish good luck to the Turkish nation, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0115par0270	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Act 564, row 1. We propose that the statement of agricultural land in its matter be changed to agricultural land. Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0116par0281	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 1st amendment of the underprivileged bill. I salute you all. Mr. Minister, in particular, I have made a promise to bring this to your attention, that Silifke's Salvation village is one of the five lagoons in the world, a place with many properties, treasures and private lands. Here, in 2007, the Department of Agriculture Department of Land Reform -- starting a collection of land -- is launching two projects: First, it launches a project to collect land and to distribute its treasured land to landless villagers -- a social project -- but it is also a private environment protected by the Ramsar Convention, and it is protected by the Ramsar Convention. It's being declared a private environmental protection area, but they're giving it to you, and they're not doing anything, and there's 15 or 20 houses there, and there's a stable for the villagers. In fact, I know that your Ministry of Agriculture's Head of Agriculture Reform has advocated the immediate implementation of this project, so I know you're very interested. Here, in fact, when this special environmental protection area was declared, the land that was given this evil should either be given by trampa to some other place, or it should be nationalized. Neither of these matters is being fulfilled. Now, there are 15-20 houses and stables that have been destroyed and moved to another location, which is why these projects can't be conducted. Because the Department of Agriculture couldn't spend money on houses on these land, as far as we know, but it's possible to get that when this grant was given to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Now, here, really, it was in the interest of the peasants there to recover the victims of these people and collect these lands. In that village, there are really big treasures, where rich people with power use them to pay for them, and the weak can't use them. This is the common demand of all villagers that the social project must be carried out immediately. There, indeed, the announcement of this special environmental protection area... has been declared for years, the left-hand side of the Antalya-Mersin asphalt, a total private environmental protection area. Protect him, I'm not saying anything. There's farmland there, they can't even farm properly, the villagers are victims. If this social project is carefully monitored and handled by your Ministry, Mr. Secretary, if you take special interest in it, the entire village will benefit from such a social project. That's why I made a promise. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0117par0286	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the Law Bill 564, we propose the use of the expression of the property of the property instead of the term "tarial land." İlhan Demirözuz Oğuz Oyan Levent Gök Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu Kamer Young Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to add the declaration of land protection and land use to Article 2 of the Law Charter for the Amendment in Article 2 of the Turkish Civil Law and to the declaration of land resources after the scientific declaration. 29.04.2014 Ali Öz Emin Çınar Oktay Özturk Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Alim Light Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kutluata, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0118par0309	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. Secretary, I've had the need to take a pledge: these agricultural arrangements... are always very important as a general arrangement, and Turkey's biggest issue is that we can't even call our scale economy, scale and agriculture businesses small businesses, which are dwarf businesses. That's very true. Such an arrangement was needed, but it was of great benefit to be brought to terms with public opinion, debated by everyone, to understand the essence of what should have been. I've heard statements from the Ministry before, such as a company in each village, a company in each area. In that respect, I think it would be helpful for you to make a statement on this matter in the name of the government. And do you have a measure for the preservation of the ownership of our agricultural enterprises, which will have reached optimal size? So, after 300 acres, 600 acres of increased amounts of foreign capital have been opened up easily, in an environment where Turkish agriculture is in huge debt, where there is no way to repay the villager's land except to sell its land, do we have a measure to ensure that we can't add it up and show some of the brothers and sisters out of agriculture and show them new jobs, on the other hand, to preserve the brother's business? So what's the point of not making the issue a rule of law? You need to understand that or you need to explain that. Thus, we need to place a guarantee in front of this community that if this law will be useful, if it will help to clear up the mess in Turkish agriculture, if all businesses and beings in Turkey will eventually fall into the hands of foreigners in an environment where all businesses and assets can be sold to foreigners, or that future Turkish agriculture will be made by Turkish farmers or Turkish business owners. Another point: 3.650 per million in agriculture, we have a goal to increase it to four times that. You said, that's good. Four times that means it's worth over $14,000. Considering a family of five... we'll take it that way, won't we, sir? Since he's a peasant, let's get a family of five, over $70,000. It's a good number, but do you have studies on what areas to move these cycles to, given that it's our secret unemployment area, when the poor are our center, where the poor are the poor and the poor are the farms, when you add that number to one of the four brothers and you get $3,650 per person, even if the other 3 is missing? So, because it's not obvious, I'm saying that such a serious arrangement should be announced to the public in advance by farmers and by agriculture organizations, by universities, by economists, by agricultural experts, and by a certain point of view that we should be able to establish a productive law here. That's what you thought, that's what we wanted. You said you brought it. And rightfully, our friends say, "It's been 12 years, and again, I think if this had been discussed in at least 12 years, it would have reached a more effective conclusion today. I wanted to draw your attention to these points. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0119par0318	Thank you, Mr. Kutluata. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Secretary, you have a request for an explanation. Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Kutluata, what Mr. Kutluata is referring to, actually Mr. Akar said something similar. First of all, I was assigned to the post on June 2, 2005, and we've been working on it since 2005. This isn't something we prepared and brought in three days ago five days ago. We brought what we were doing here, which problem Turkey was facing, and we measured the possible complications of this problem, knowingly, weighing and arguing on a very broad platform. First of all, we did one of the biggest polls in Turkey, face to face with 50,000 people. We've had a lot of workshops, common minds meetings. Many workshops, many meetings, many joint gatherings, many common gatherings, after all this was done, including professors of land at the University of Ankara University Law School, where agriculture engineers, agricultural chambers, all professional organisations attended. And you can appreciate that it's not something that can be solved very quickly. Now, I'll tell you right away about concerns: actually, the 7th article in the Frame 6th article has a sentence that says, I read the relevant part of it, that, in addition to the minimum agricultural landscapes can be combined with minimum-sized farmland. The land that is created by this image is sold directly by the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, is primarily the issue of massing or publicization -- to shareholders or heirs -- unless these people buy enough land, which is not the size of income agricultural land, which is the equivalent of local farmers, which is the price of trackic, to the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, your witness has nothing to worry about. I mean, there's no way this could be bought, prepared, and sold to strangers. All this has been discussed, considered. It's been taken care of. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 2 of the Law Bill 564, we propose the use of the expression of the property of the property instead of the term "tarial land." Oğuz Oyan (Izmir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Oyan, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0120par0337	Mr. President, our group has decided to support this Land Protection and Land Use Act. We think that the purpose of this purpose -- this kind of merger, massization, preventing division -- is right. Of course, the average land size of 59 acres and the size of a lot of land may not be enough for a productive agriculture, of course, is about to change according to its territory. There have just been other examples for the Black Sea. Now, the first thing we want to point out is, does the Ministry have the proper and adequate means to achieve that goal? Now, how far are the technical elements capable of classifying land talent, and how far are they under an institutional roof? As it is known, this institutional roof was actually the General Directorate of Village Services, which was purged by your Government General, and their staff was distributed to the state's private administrations. Now, this province's private administration remains in 51 districts, but there are not 30 major city municipalities representing 70 per cent of Turkey's population, 75. So, the question is, do you have to make a management and institutional savings that will reunite these staffs, do you have that kind of preparation? Otherwise, it's tough. On the other hand, shouldn't there be another preparation? I mean, can we solve this legally complicated issue without any regulation in the Civil Law, without such a tool? So, another thing, of course, is that you're making an arrangement that will bring an incredible workload to the judiciary, and you probably realize that. Depending on this, domestic disputes between siblings, between heirs, unrest, legal conflicts will also be the source of a great social unrest. Are you prepared to do anything about it, other than transfer it to the judge? Or, you've just said, here you are, agricultural land procurement business and operations, we'll see in Article 8/K (under Article 5) -- and there you're opening up a new legal problem by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism -- in order to bring commercial land and businesses to minimal sizes or to address conflicts due to property. Now, there is another issue: there is an IMF-World Bank model in Turkey after 2000. This is still being implemented by your government as well, and these policies have caused major damage to Turkey's agriculture. For one thing, Turkey's agriculture has become an external trade deficit industry. Agriculture in Turkey was our export industry once, and now it can't even burn with its own oil. So let's not repeat the known samples from animal imports to hay imports. More than 3 million hectares in agriculture have been disabled. A significant part of this came out during direct income support practices. People were cut off from production during this period of direct income support, which was one of the goals. Part of it is falling apart, out of agriculture, industry, tourism and so on. But the important part is they don't work, they don't plant, they don't harvest. So, for one thing, we're dealing with a power that can't solve these problems, a power that has expanded these problems. On the other hand, in your time, the total share of agricultural employment was reduced from 35 per cent to 25 per cent. I suppose you're sensing this as a very good development. Support for farmers remained at an average half per cent of national income, sometimes rising to 6 per thousand. Due to high input prices and underprivileged prices and bonus payments, many products have serious declines, the cotton sample was reminded here. So, now, family agriculture is like this in Turkey... with this input prices, it can only hold family agriculture in agriculture. Family agriculture must be maintained in Turkey. Of course, to be able to create the scale economy from the other side... I wonder how you're going to do both. This military land, the issue of agricultural land, can cause agricultural land prices to drop, and it can also lead to unjust land defaults. Of course, the sale of land to strangers stands in front of us as another area. I hope you can solve these problems. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0121par0347	Thank you, Mr. Oyan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on the third article: The 3rd Amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Act No. 564. We would like to change the terms of the regional land expressed in the article into..... the property of the property. Flood Köse İlhan Demirözüslim Sarı Ramadan Kerim Özkan Oğuz Oyan Haydar Akar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law on the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law and the amendment of the Turkish Civil Law, which is listed in 564 rows, to be added to its purpose after the declaration of the law. 29/04/2014 Scholar Light Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Öz Kemalettin Yılmaz Mesut Dedeoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0122par0371	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're negotiating a bill aimed at preventing the disintegration of agricultural land to ensure the establishment of productive agricultural enterprises. Indeed, we are making a very important provision of Turkey's law on a very important matter. However, Mr. Secretary, describing the current situation as a facia, the minister has been in power for 12 years; they need to do a conscience accounting for being so late on agriculture, which has been described as a twelve-year term for Turkey. Of course, we've gathered four million hectares. It's important to call it a result, but since you call it a facia, it means there's still a lot to be done, and because of what you haven't done, you need to do a lot of accounting for this community, for what you've lost to Turkey. Dear friends, you're bringing in a new system to create efficient businesses with the law brought in, and you're saying that: "This will be used as a method of handing over ownership of agricultural land belonging to a single heir." Right; as my group, as my party, as a programme, we support this, and we contribute to that. However, we also feel it is necessary to avoid developing new problems as we solve a problem. Article 35 of our constitution states the sanctity of property rights and says it can only be restricted if it is a public benefit. However, Article 44 of the Constitution, the state is responsible for taking measures to operate the land efficiently but the right to property is a very basic freedom. Now, with the law you have brought, you aim to limit the right to property in Article 35 of the Constitution, and you see it as a necessity. You must not ignore a number of problems that will arise between our citizens and the public conscience at an international jurisprudence point. Because in Turkey, the generality of the laws is important, but we've seen with other examples that, in the same way, the laws are applied throughout Turkey. I'm going to make a statement to the Honorable Minister: Mr. Secretary, look, of course, the Law on Aids to Farmers Who Were Hurt by Disasters is 1977. In Articles 1 and 2 of this law, you require that farmers who are subjected to these disasters lose 40 percent of their products, production tools, and facilities in order to be compensated. This law is about 40 years old, although our country -- especially this time of year -- has suffered disasters for many reasons: frost, wind, flood, and many disasters, and the farmer loses the labor of his hand before his eyes. In order to meet that, unfortunately, you're making it necessary for the state to lose 40 percent of its existence on the basis of this 40-year law; it's being brought in. It's not your fault, it's the law's fault. But it's no use to the farmer. In every part of our country, this became a gangrene, a persecution. In Mersin, my constituency, there are these kinds of disasters in agricultural areas, in almost every district. Another problem is that we are working hard to get the farmer to adjust to the insurance. However, the TARSIM has such gaps in its contracts, two of which find forty excuses not to pay compensation in the face of disaster. Sadly, after the recent disaster at Tarsus, the farmers and TARSIM were court-martialed. This has to be arranged, and it has to be changed. And I've been promised to bring this to your attention. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0123par0380	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Number 564 is the third amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use. We propose that the terms expressed in the Article shall be changed in the form of the property. Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Köse, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0124par0392	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all -- on the day of the workers' unity, solidarity and struggle, May 1st, I wish all the peoples of the world, workers of the world, to bring peace, to the people of the world, to the people of humanity, to the people of the world, to the people of the world, to the people of the world, to the people of the world, to bring freedom. But unfortunately, this year, as a result of the arbitrary implementation of power in our country, our workers, our workers, our unions, our NGOs, are banned by the arbitrary position of the Prime Minister, whose sentimental value is very high in the memory of May 1st. Regaip Kandili at the same time tomorrow. A day when all prayers will be answered, a day when Muslims around the world have a very special and important, spiritual value. I'm celebrating that too. Now, I wonder how Mr. Prime Minister will pray tomorrow when the workers are there eating gas, and the workers are there, and the workers are there, and the TOMAs are there, and the police are stuck with the baton. Now, they're making a statement, saying that we can't secure the public, that public order will be corrupted. The various terrorist organizations and extensions will infiltrate the workers. You, my brother, are the government, you will identify them, you will not take them into that area. Now, it was celebrated in 1976, May 1st. Were there any incidents? Not to mention 1977, there was deep work in 1977. It was celebrated in 2010. There's a poster of your Istanbul Province presidency in 2010, remember? What did he say in 2010? There's no incident in 2010, there's no incident in 2012, but we're not coming to 2013, we're not coming to the Prime Minister's pleasure, 2014. Well, do you know the truth about everything, Prime Minister? I mean, are you the only truth of God? What's with the stubbornness? Why shouldn't the workers celebrate May 1st in the Kingdom, which is of great sentimental value, with memories for them? What's the harm done to this country? In that sense, it's irrational, it's irrational, and I'd like to point out that I also condemn this unlawful ban. The last word is: every place there is division, every place there is resistance, everywhere there is May 1st. My dear friends, now we have a bill ahead of us. Some of the agricultural arrangements are being made. Our group will vote in favor of this law. But, especially in our Çorum, we have a small district of Oguzlar, a very well-known walnut with a population of 6,500 inhabitants. Perhaps many of you have eaten the nuts of the Oğuz at your table. It's a very efficient tree; it's very white, it comes right out of it. In many places, the boys sell walnuts, as well as other walnuts.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0125par0398	It's better if he doesn't hold the nuts.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0124par0399	No, no, it's holding. Now, on March 28th and 29th, we had a frost disaster that burned 80 percent of the walnut agriculture in Oğuz and Oğuz. I mean, the day before, those green gardens turned into fires, unfortunately, a day later. I mean, there's been a complete frost disaster. The County Department of Agriculture came in, made a determination, said there was 80 percent damage to the walnut here. Although 80% of the damage has been done, it is still not considered a natural disaster. Many of our farmers could not get agricultural insurance for economic reasons, and since they could not get agricultural insurance, there is no harm done because they were not covered by any natural disaster. In 2004 and 2006, these areas were declared a natural disaster area, and the farmer's damage was compensated. Is it because the people of the Oğuz chose the Republican People's Party Mayor instead of the Justice and Development Party Mayor during the 2014 local elections? People carry that concern. Of course, some of our farmers got insurance insurance, but the insurance company's appraisers came in, there's damage, the county's identified agriculture, but they said: "The flowering season, we won't be able to pay it now." I mean, we're no good to the one who can't get insurance, but the one who's got insurance, I'm afraid, Mr. Secretary. Now, my dear friends, the problem of the Oğuz farmer must be solved, as I think it is the problem of Turkey. It adds 5-6 million liras to a city of 6,500 inhabitants. The female worker provides employment because it's made into an inner walnut. As soon as the natural disaster is in the area, the Oğuz must be compensated for the damage of the farmer. The agricultural bank, private banks, the premium debt to the SGK must be postponed without interest, the electricity debts must be delayed so that the Oğuz can maintain the sustainability of walnut agriculture in the country, and all of Turkey can eat the Bosphorus nuts. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0126par0404	Thank you, Mr. Köse. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 3 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 that I read: Number 564 is the fourth amendment to the law on land protection and land use. We demand that the agricultural property in its matter be changed to agricultural land. Flood Köse Kamer Young Ilhan Demiröz Veli Ağbaba Haydar Akar Müslim Sarı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the 564 hectares of Article 5403, which has been replaced by Article 4 of the Law on the Law on Land Protection and Land Use and Changes in Turkish Civil Law, be replaced by.3 hectares. 29/04/2014 Mesut Dedeoğlu Alim İlm Reşat Right Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Erdem Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 564 Orders 4 of the Numbered Legislature. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. Erol Dora Kemal Aktaş Altan Tan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0127par0431	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party on Article 4 of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Act 564 and Amendment to Civil Law. I salute your high council. Before I speak on the bill, I salute all workers with a heartfelt longing for May Day, a world without wars and exploitation. In Article 4 of the law bill that we discussed, and in general, the main reason is to open the way for more efficient and economic agricultural production, to make it possible for larger-scale agricultural enterprises, so that it can be construed as a practical obstacle to increasing income from agriculture and the actual reduction of agricultural land, especially through inheritance. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, of course, agricultural policy and planning have an important place for a country's population to be able to maintain a stable and adequate nutritional capacity in the first place. On the other hand, land and agricultural policies are also important for the reasonable use of natural resources. With the predictions of the bill we discussed, of course, I must point out that we find it important to increase agricultural production, to use agricultural land in efficient forms and to provide savings in various ways. On the other hand, the soil, like the air, is one of the most important natural resources, such as water. In this regard, it should be noted that policies for the use of a country's natural resources have to be consistent as a whole. A country's land policy, air policy, water policy will be meaningful when it has a quality that respects ecological balance, does not destroy the habitats of other species and does not surrender to neoliberal profit incentives. Precious lawmakers, including global climate change, other important ecological problems, the loss of biodiversity, the nitrogen cycle, the problems of phosphorous cycles, the acidification of oceans, chemical pollution, desertification, soil pollution, the pollution of fresh water sources, the pollution of air pollution, the destruction of forests, and, in general, our country and private, is evolving into a new era. All these problems we're talking about, of course, must be Turkey's problem and therefore the current government's problem. In spite of the legal provisions for agricultural efficiency, the policy report of the EC PARTY government in terms of air pollution and the use of water resources is very weak and is driven by neoliberal profit ambition. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, hydro power plants continue to threaten our water supply, and unfortunately, the relevant ministries do not give up this practice. Again, Turkey's National Climate Change Action Plan still does not have a general national greenhouse gas emissions target. With the Copenhagen settlement, more than 140 countries reported greenhouse gas reduction, restrictions or voluntary projects, Turkey refrained from making any commitments. As it is known, the increase in greenhouse gases causes the planet's temperature average to increase, global warming. On the other hand, 215 million square metres of land in Turkey is covered with mines, and most of these land is qualified farmland. There is a huge contradiction between the speech of this bill brought to the agenda of the General Assembly, predicting the shortage of unit land per person and Turkey's stance on clearing minefields. I'm finishing my speech by saying that we favour the assessment of land, air, water, and all other natural resources in harmony with ecosystems, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0128par0440	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose that the 564 hectares of Article 5403, which has been replaced by Article 4 of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law and the Amendment to the Turkish Civil Law, be replaced by 3 hectares. 29/04/2014 Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Dedeoglu, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0129par0452	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from our Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the amendment to Article 4 of the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Act 564 and Amendment to Turkish Civil Law. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the government wants to prevent and increase production through the inheritance of agricultural land through this draft bill. This law prohibits the division of agricultural land. In our country, agricultural land is not only divided through inheritance, but the wrong agricultural policies have been implemented at the beginning of the major reasons for the division of agricultural land. These policies keep our farmers out of production, and the fields remain empty. And the farmers don't want to farm because they're damaged, they don't want to sow. This bill is not useful for production and employment. This bill will do great harm to the small farmers. Little farmers who don't get along and can't cut their farms into small pieces through inheritance will have to sell their farms to bigger companies. From this point of view, the bill will harm farmers in our country rather than benefit them. In our country, agriculture and animalism have already been severely regressed in recent years. Turkey, formerly one of the five self-sustaining countries in agriculture and livestock, is now almost fully imported on many issues. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey has been imported apples from Argentina, bananas from Brazil, watermelons from Iran and tomato seeds from Israel. Unfortunately, from some states of the United States, Turkey, which imports live sheep of sacrifice, has been transformed into an unprecedented import of hay from Bulgaria. Today, our farmers can't afford to pay for their sweats, they can't sell for what they produce, they can't sell for what they want. It's starting to take our farmers away from production every day. Unfortunately, in 2011, the amount of plantable land in our country, which was 26.5 million hectares in 2002, dropped to 23.6 million hectares. The amount of land that can be planted will be reduced by the Metropolitan Law issued by the government. Under the Metropolitan Law, the corporate personality of 18,200 villages was ended, and these villages were transformed into neighborhoods. The end of the village has become uncertain. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, the agricultural policies and the events that have taken place, of course, have also been affected by our heroic farmers. In Turkey and Kahramanmarash, our farmers were unable to pay their debts to banks, agricultural loan co-ops, irrigation troops and electricity management. The reconstruction of these farmers from time to time did not help either. The situation of our farmers is pathetic. High price increases in inputs have also been added this year to the events of frosts in fruit trees. On the night of March 29th, 30th, Marta, Kahramanmarash had a severe temperature drop. The same has happened in geography, not in Kahramanmarash. From this temperature drop, fruit trees have suffered a great deal of damage. The early blooming fruit trees and connective areas of the frost incident in Kahramanmarash were sadly damaged. The government must repair its victims by identifying the damage done to our producers. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, number 2090, of course, are incapable of protecting farmer's rights to help farmers who are being harmed by the Disasters, and this law shall be reconsidered. This law, which puts harsh conditions for our farmers, must be reorganized to protect our farmers and to take care of the farmers. Heromarash is one of the most important cities in our country in agriculture and livestock. Therefore, the losses of our manufacturers must be compensated and supported by special incentives. With these thoughts and feelings, I ask for the acceptance of our motion to change, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0130par0459	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Number 564 is the fourth amendment to the law on land protection and land use. We demand that the agricultural property in its matter be changed to agricultural land. Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0131par0471	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, tomorrow, May 1st, I celebrate the holiday of all workers, and I also condemn this bench, which does not allow this holiday to be celebrated at the Summit, and prevents it from being celebrated. Now, I'd like to talk to you about the fourth amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use, but in the meantime, I would like to point out that this law is a law that is too late. Although it was late, as the Minister said, they worked on it -- they said we worked hard on it -- but they forgot, because there were new districts with the Metropolitan Law and so on, and there were some provinces with it that had little to do with agriculture, where they tried to gather land, or bring them a limit. We still say this law should be passed. Now, the use of small fields of land, of course, causes problems with people's earnings. When we look at agriculture, if you look at twelve years of AKP policies, you have to look at whether it's just the division or the reduction of land through inheritance, or the problems in agriculture, or whether there are other reasons. That's right, as the land is torn apart, the smaller it is, the less efficient it is. We need to increase efficiency once in a while. Again, as the land grows smaller and smaller, we see the cost of labor increases as it is shared. Again, we see the increase in fertilizer use and the cost of fertilizer. Again, we see that the use of diesel has increased, which the Minister has expressed. Again, we see that water use is much more in the broken land along with integrated soil. Of course, now we can't solve the problems of agriculture in Turkey by just disintegrating the land, disintegrating it into smaller pieces. When the minister came here, he should have said, "What are the solutions?" For example, he should have told the Turkish worker why this mazood was paid close to $5 euro when the logistics service was given to the ships without SVR. Again, he should have been able to explain why the Turkish farmer used this fertilizer, which he used in agriculture, more expensive than any other country in the world. Another thing the Minister should have said was that we all supported the Metropolitan Law together. In 30 cities, the city's laws began to be enforced. After the Metropolitan Law was enforced, water under the ground, well waters, streams, rivers, whatever water work you had in mind was handed over to the major cities. Now, in my town, there's this problem. For example, Balaban Creek, which flows to Lake Sapanca, did not just cover drinking water, but also the need for water in that village. But the city city took this water away from this peasant, and now he's come up with a formula to pour it into the Homeland Dam, and he's pouring it into the Nest Dam. There's no water left, no water left to water the fruit. Now, it's not only the ministry's job to integrate the land, it's also to meet the need for water for the farmer to farm the land. And this need for water, here, we just make agriculture, we make land whole, whether it's water or not. It shouldn't be called water. That's what he needs to figure out. Well, when you make people whole, you think that one of the brothers -- the shareholders -- is going to get it. If he doesn't, you're thinking of solving it with the courts. If it doesn't work out again, you're thinking of taking it public. Have you ever seen what the chances are of this brother getting that land? I'm telling you, 90 percent of them won't buy that land from the other brother. Even if he buys it, the other brother will consume it after a while and we'll be facing employment problems. Yeah, there's a lot of that going around. People are quickly moving away from agriculture, and there's no agriculture in 3 million hectares. For example, I'd like to give you another example from my own district, my own district, Kandira County. When you travel 20km by 20km, and 30km by the way of the Black Sea, you can see 30 real estate and real estate agents. You see that there are farms being sold because no one wants to farm, they can't make money from agriculture. Here, you have to increase the farmers' opportunities to make money on agriculture. What do you need to increase it with? You'll have to raise it with loans. And who is the most credited by the Agriculture Bank, which lends to agriculture in Turkey? He says he's giving it to the pool media, and I'm giving it to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0132par0479	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 4 is accepted. There are two motions on Article 8/A under Article 5: We propose that the law on the amendment to Land Protection and Land Use Act 564 is to change the expression of agricultural land expressed in Article 5-8/A as farmland. Ali Riza Özturk İlhan Demiröz Haydar Akar Free Special Uður Flagtutan Engin Özkoç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the last sentence of Article 8/A of Article 5/A of Article 5/A be removed from the text of the article. Emin Çınar Ali Öz Oktay Özturk Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0133par0500	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0132par0501	Mr. Tin Man, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0134par0503	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The improvement of the agricultural body is important to collect land in order to improve agricultural production and agricultural enterprises by making the best use of less time, labour and capital and production factors. Today, economic agriculture has become virtually impossible because of the inefficiency of agricultural land. This clause we're talking about is where agricultural land can't be broken down or divided under certain sizes. In practice, the measures necessary to prevent the farmer's persecution must be taken. Today, the agriculture industry faces many problems, and our farmer, who is already having a difficult time, is now devastated by drought and the disaster of frosts. Our country has been in the driest years since October, but the Minister of Agriculture is either unaware or doesn't care about agriculture and farmers. In his speech here last week, on Tuesday (April 22, 2014) -- I read exactly as I read from the ME's authorities -- the February, March and April rain has significantly reduced the risk of agricultural drought, and the April and May rains will undoubtedly be decisive in the following process. We listened astonishingly and astoundedly. I wonder which country's Minister of Agriculture. What did he mean by that? We have an inner Anatolian area, has he seen this area? We have a province there called the agricultural barn of our country, and a plain. Does he know about this? My dear friends, because of the drought, the plains are scorched, and the crops are desolate, and our farmer weeps for blood. Let's go to our nearest town together to Kulu. Let's go together to Jahanbeyli. Let's see how the drought affects the crops. Let's see how the farmer's grief is in place. We are faced with a situation that should be declared a disaster zone in many districts of Ionya, due to droughts and frosts, let alone a decrease in the risk of drought. We have counties of damage to wheat, barley, fruits, more than 50 percent, even 80 percent. Again, according to the minister's statement, debt to farm banks and agricultural loan co-ops will be delayed by a year, but it will obviously be delayed by interest. The damage caused by Don will be covered by insurance, but the majority of the farmers who did not have insurance for various reasons will suffer. It also says insurance policies are supported by the Ministry until 67 per cent of the fruit and flowering process. However, the frost disaster struck the orchards in the province of Ereğli, especially in the province of Ereğli, in the opening of flowers. Look, they say that the orchards in the district of Ereğli are miserable because of the frost, especially the white cherry in Belcemur, but I won't pay for the damage. So, what's the manufacturer going to do, and why isn't it covered? Mr. Secretary, the government needs to pay attention to the farmer's condition; it shouldn't be insensitive to the farmer's problems, the manufacturer's problems. A comprehensive support package must be put into effect for our farmer immediately. Damages to agricultural products due to drought and frost disaster should be determined, our districts facing major damage should be declared a disaster zone and the farmer's damage must be compensated immediately. Farmer's agricultural loan co-ops and loans to banks and electricity debts used in agricultural irrigation must be postponed without interest. In our country, agricultural insurance has not improved much. Therefore, measures must be taken to compensate for what our farmer saw because of the disasters he experienced. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0135par0514	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. We propose that the law on the amendment to Land Protection and Land Use Act 564 is to change the expression of agricultural land expressed in Article 5-8/A as farmland. Free Private (Manisa) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0136par0523	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0135par0524	Mr. Special, come in, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0137par0526	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on the first article of the first section of the bill, which has changed the Law on Land Protection and Land Use 564 rows. The bill aims to prevent the disintegration of agricultural land through its heritage. As our group has expressed before, it's a suggestion that we support at heart. The aim is to establish a limited company if the heirs agree between themselves or if these heirs remain partners, and if they are to be sold, it is intended that the land not be divided through a series of proposals, starting with the rightful heir. The ministry's bureaucracy has explained in its various reports that the division of the land has caused 150 lira in 10 acres of damage. In addition, there is talk of 100 lira transportation in 10 acres, 80 lira in non-machine-free agriculture, a total loss of $330, and a total loss of 8 billion a year, considering 24 billion hectares of land. If that's the case, it's important to ask the Ministry of Agriculture: Why did you risk a total of 96 billion dollars in damage over the past two years and bring it here, and you haven't made such a significant change? Well, the land is divided, the land is divided one time through inheritance, but I know as a member of a city that is mainly agrarian and I know that the land is divided every year. Farmers, who are getting a little poorer every day, whose economy is a little bit more powerful, are already selling land every year to pay off their loans, to pay their children's education expenses, or to marry their children, to pay for them, or to deal with a sudden health problem. For example, in the Hajials of Manisa, he sells his land every year for five acres, five acres, or other reasons, as I say. Then it's a very important thing to stop it. How do we do that? We'll do it by supporting the farmer. The farmer has very serious problems, especially because of agricultural policies over the last decade. Tobacco: AKP lawmakers at times boast in Manisa. Mr. Minister can't watch this, but Ibrahim is probably watching from the Solomonian village of Akhisar. A MP from Akhisar says that in our time, we saved the farmer from the tobacco problem. This is a serious problem. But they know that the price of tobacco is now at the price of the price of the price of the price of the TECEL that buys it, it has to be 60 lira, it has to be 2 kilos of meat, they know that it has to be at least 50 lira. Snow is gone, and with Çukurova, we are out of the world's eyed cotton. In olives, between 2005 and 2013, the costs increased between 100 per cent and 250 per cent, but olives are sold at prices ten years ago. Everyone's taken refuge in the millet, producing the millet, producing the corn; it's a breeding ground. I can count them one by one, but when time was short, the lucky ones sold the corn that cost $415, they couldn't even afford the corn. When we said, Mr. Eker came to Manisa last year, we invited him, the Çanakçı of Sarıgöl, who held meetings after frostings in Alaşehir. He promised, we won't look at the government behind you, without insurance, all of you... don't cry. Mothers keep crying. They didn't pay a penny for the one who didn't. I went to Subaşa, Mr. Eker, to see if he could ever come to Subaşah again, and to see if he could come to Sarıgöl again. Let's see what she says. The price of $5 in raisins was $2.5 because of the illegal grapes from Iran. The AKP politicians in Manisa have a first-degree responsibility. Age grapes: Due to broken relations with Russia -- we were selling 80 percent to Russia -- lost the price, and we are in a difficult situation. At the point where we're now, there's been a major disaster in the last few days because of the hail of the Black Boy, Bozköy, İğdecik, and Cobanisa. TARSIM did not protect them in 2011. No one's had a TARSIM. Now they're saying, "We'll get past the debtor's debt." How will he spend this year without debt?" It's got to be backed up with a non-interest loan. I also point out that the Minister himself salutes the entire House.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0138par0536	Thank you, Mr. Special. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 8/A of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 8/B of Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose a six-month change of the terms of the statement of Article 8/B under Article 5/B of Article 5 of the Law on the Law on Land Protection and Land Use and Changes in Turkish Civil Law. 29.04.2014 Emin Çınar Ali Öz Oktay Özturk Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0139par0551	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0138par0552	Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0140par0554	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 8/B, which is subject to the 564th Article of the Law Bill, which is under discussion. I hereby salute the High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. Dear lawmakers, I would like to start by sharing with you that there is a positive but unresolved bill at the core of this bill brought to the agenda to address one of the major problems of Turkish agriculture, because we have asked Mr. Minister how to bring together the areas that have been destroyed in the current situation, is there a judgment for this? Thus, Turkey has already come to this point for years because of its agriculture, Turkish agriculture, fragmented land and shrinking business size. The way to get rid of this problem today is to find a solution to the current problem. From now on, measures to prevent the disintegration of land, of course, are important, but a law has not been passed in order to solve what is now present. So first, we needed to take measures to solve the present problem. We'd like to have the same provisions in this bill, but unfortunately we've accepted the problems that exist today, so let's take care of the land from now on. We've brought such a bill. Of course, the second part is also important, so let's not be divided or broken up, but we'd like to have a bill that would eliminate the division that exists now, so we'd like to see that we're not dealing with such a bill. Dear lawmakers, of course one of the most important problems of Turkish agriculture is small business sizes and fragmented land, but we have to add to the fact that we can't apply modern agricultural techniques or apply agricultural technologies because of it. In addition, agriculture's share in employment and the Turkish economy has declined increasingly and has declined rapidly in the past five years, especially in the past five years. This is a development aimed at new unemployment and eliminating secret employment in agriculture, which needs to be avoided. Mr. Secretary mentioned agricultural income per person of $3,650 a year. He said they were aiming to increase it and quadruple it. That's true, but four brothers didn't answer the question of what to do with the three brothers who were exposed when they were barely living off $3,650. That'll be the problem from now on. So, let's round up the land that's inherited by one, what do we do with the remaining 3-4 brothers? There's no measure against him, no employment policy against him, neither does he. So this bill won't solve problems, it may prevent disintegration, but it will bring new problems. We have to take measures to solve these current problems here. Of course, agriculture has also reduced profitability and efficiency, especially because of the rise in input prices over the past few years. In particular, many engineers, veterinary physicians, who have been waiting to be appointed last year, who we believe will make a serious contribution in this sector, have not yet been appointed. Again, we understand from the questions we're asking, the Treasury Department is saying that if he answers the demands, he'll be appointed. What if he doesn't? If he doesn't, it's obvious that we've given him thousands of dollars a year, and he hasn't, and sometimes it's said that a request like that isn't delivered.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0141par0562	He didn't, he didn't.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0140par0563	Today's new graduates will continue to produce problems in agricultural schools, veterinary schools, water products schools. I'm waiting for your support of our motion, and I'm paying all of you my respects. At least we don't want to wait a year in an heir agreement, and we want these problems solved in six months. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0142par0567	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes Article 8/B of Article 5: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 8/C under Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first joke of Article 8/C under Article 5/C of the Law on the Amendment to the Law on Land Protection and Land Use Law on Turkish Civil Law, the statement on agricultural land and the ownership of adequate agricultural land, which has been contaminated after the death of the deceased, we propose and propose that the sentence be changed in the form of the minimum agricultural land and the ownership of sufficient income land, which is held after the death of the deceased. 29.04.2014 Emin Çınar Ali Öz Oktay Özturk Seyfettin Yilmaz Erkan Akçay Kemalettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mr. Ali Öz, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0143par0583	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the amendment to Article 564 on Article 5/C. I hereby salute your high council. When we look at the law in general, we see that, in fact, a problem in Turkey that needs to be solved for a long time has solved a large majority based on certain criteria. Therefore, as the National Party of Action, I would like to express our support for this bill. However, in order to ensure the sustainability of agricultural production and exports in Turkey in the following years, I would like to say that the producers' debt, bonus debt, electricity debt, must be postponed without interest. A new loan needs to be made available to ease its use. The farmer must be raised up with support. Farmers must be fought to prevent the damage they face from natural disasters. Unfortunately, we are a nation that, each time -- a common habit of ours as a nation -- without disaster, without disaster, without thinking about how to take measures related to this, what kind of help should be done, and not develop long-term strategies. After the time of each disaster, this disaster happened here, this disaster happened, and these were the victims of it, and what emergency measures should be taken... I'd like to say that all of this must be based on some legal basis that is within the law. Of course, this phenomenon that we face with natural disasters does not only affect farmers; Turkey is putting Turkey into a food crisis that starts with farmers, takes the whole sector in with the farmer, which will eventually reflect into the consumer's kitchen, which will increase inflation. So everyone will have to pay the price for this disaster in the chain that extends to the consumer. In our country, the most affected crops this year show that wheat is at the beginning of the drought and that production is expected to decrease by 20 to 30 per cent this year. The drought should be one of the important steps that we all need to take -- in addition to the causes of the drought -- in terms of our natural water resources' struggle with drought -- to make an action plan for forty-fifty years, and to find ways to be at least affected by the drought. Of course, with the use of our water resources here, it also means that we as a country have been affected by drought as well as by the use of water that we used in homes to reassemble it with integrated industrial facilities. The fact that water resources are allowed to be built around them is one of the main problems for us. Each year, our farmers in the agricultural field are victims of a different cause. The farmer can't even get what he spent that year when he was exposed to natural disasters, he's growing in debt, he's wavering in a vicious cycle. In this sense, the damage to the structure of agricultural insurance must be revised. In this sense, the demands of agricultural chambers and farmers should not be ignored. In this regard, facilitating measures must be taken to include farmers in the insurance system. Insurance premiums must be downloaded to attract the farmer; they must be granted an extension of the short-term insurance period before the product develops. As long as the crop is not harvested, an additional amount of insurance must be maintained before our farmers are charged. The scope of flower insurance, which is applied only in the frost disaster, must be covered by other disasters, and the sunburn must be covered by insurance. If many years of plants have been overwhelmed, new regulations must be made over the year when they can't produce in the event that they are damaged. We know that in Mersin, after a frosting disaster in Mezitli, the trees were affected not only by vegetables but by trees that could not produce long - term products. Therefore, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, in addition to these laws of Law 2009 and Law 5363, that it is known by all that the farmer has great shortcomings at the point of making amends in natural disasters, that new regulations in the sense of insurance and protection of farmers who have suffered natural disasters should be brought out quickly.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0144par0594	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 8/C of Article 5 to your votes:
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0145par0597	Mr. President, before we vote, may I have a word, sir?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0144par0598	Of course, if you'd like to go first, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0145par0599	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President will now vote on Article 8/C of the bill. But I think there's a technical problem in terms of expression in Article 8/C. The first joke of Article 8/C. There's the legacy, there's the legacy, and there's the concept that the legacy is dead. So if there's an heir, then death has happened, it's very wrong to use the expression "death of the one who left the legacy" again. I think that after the death of the man who left the legacy, the removal of the notice would be appropriate to express his purpose better. The sentence will then be:... the property of agricultural land and sufficient income. That's the kind of correction I'd recommend. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0146par0602	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. GIDE, AGENT AND ANIMALITY CAN BE MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir). Let's fix it with a redact if you want. You've got a demand to fix this with a redaction, over. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) OK. This request for correction... Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'm turning your microphone back on. Can you rephrase the correction?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0147par0608	It would be appropriate to say that after the death of the person who left an heir, the statement will be as follows: "As regards the property of agricultural land and sufficient income...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit03spe0146par0609	The Commission and the government have agreed to your proposal. At this request, I submit Article 8/C of Article 5/C to your votes. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 8/C under Article 5: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 8/D of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 8/E of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 8/F of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 8/G of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit to your votes Article 8/9 of Article 5: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. I'm taking a 20-minute break.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0146par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 83rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 564. The commission and the government are in place. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes the 8/H clause and the 12th article in which the framework is constrained by Article 5/H. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP İlhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the second chapter. Here you go, Mr. Irony. [[A round of applause from CHP, AK PARTY and MHP]] You will speak for exactly five minutes, five minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0148par0010	Why? We're going to catch a plane.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0149par0012	He said he'd talk for 15 minutes, and on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0148par0013	Yeah. Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a promise, yes, that there will be a holiday or that everyone will be able to catch up with the planes at once, but there are things we must express. While we have Mr. Food, Minister of Agriculture and Petting here, we need to address some of our problems with him. I made a commitment to the chapter in the discussion of the Bill of Law on Changing Land Protection and Land Use Act 564. I salute you all with respect and love. Mr. Minister has always objected, but since our country was self-sufficient in agriculture before the 1980s, I want to say that we were in the wrong agricultural policies and we were in a net importing position in agriculture because Mr. Secretary has always expressed that we are exporters without mentioning imports in his speeches. I'd like to say that nine out of the last 11 years of our country have been given a clear foreign trade deficit in agricultural products. According to the international standard industry rating, the export of agriculture in 2000 was $1,659, while the import of agriculture was around 2 million. In 2013, with $5,916,000 in exports in agriculture, the import was $7,74,000. I mean, I mean, I mean, I'm going to classify this, but I also have to say that in terms of the international standard trade class, I'd also like to say that we're exporters of food materials. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to express my opinion on a few things about banks, because Mr. Secretary says in his speech that the return to the Bank of Agriculture is 98%. But when we checked our memories, the private banks' share in the loans to agriculture in 2000 was 4 per thousand, my friends. But between 2000 and 2013, the total share of domestic and private foreign banks is around 36 percent. So I want to say that this number is increasing, and then, at the end of 2013, the amount of loans used by domestic and private foreign banks is $36.4 billion. Now, I have to say from here right now, I'd like to say that the amount of loan the farmer uses is four times the amount of agricultural support payments. I wonder if this situation is very good. Do we really need to state that the farmers are doing well, or do we need to tell them that they've come to these points by paying off banks to banks? Precious lawmakers have joined more than 16,000 cities and village municipalities as neighborhoods in 30 major cities, while the ratio of people living in districts and districts in 2012 has increased by 77.3% to 91 per cent after the March 30th 2014 local elections. In a different way, the percentage of people living in towns and villages has been reduced from 22.7 per cent to 8.7 per cent. I'd like to put that as one of the Minister's most important work on these issues. However, here, I would like to share with you a view of this law: 30 major cities and 51 districts of state private administrations. Now, in order for you to enforce this law, you have to take out the soil inventory, you have to do the soil-related classifications, and that requires technical personnel. But as it turns out, 30 major cities -- 70 percent of the population -- turned into neighborhoods on the evening of March 30th, and as a result, valuable friends, technical staff in the county's private administration, agricultural high engineers, food engineers, environmental engineers -- were all scattered, all scattered according to the demands of the mayors of the capital or districts. Now, I'd like to ask you from here: 1) How will you apply this law? 2) How will you find the technical elements needed for the infrastructure of this law in these 30 provinces? I'd like to take Mr. Minister's point of view on this, but I'd like to point out that I already know that they're not very keen on suggestions from the opposition, but I wish to say that the Department of Land Reform now needs a structure in the provinces, more than 30 cities, in the capital cities, so at least the lack of major cities in this matter can be resolved by the establishment of these General Directorate's rural agencies. Friends, in his speech earlier, Mr. Minister said: "Here, there is no shortage of land. With the CKS system, it says that this is happening with other systems, but as of the end of 2013, 1.7 million farmers have left agriculture. Why did he leave? Did he leave of his own free will? He came to the suburbs, where he got a job in the service industry, in the industry? No, but he had to leave because he couldn't get along, and I want to come to these points and say that he left. This growth in agriculture, which is far below the growth rate of the general economy, has grown by 5 percent in the last 11 years, while the growth rate in agriculture has increased by 2.3 per cent. And I'd like to talk to you about a few very brief issues about my area, after I mention this in light of the information that the farmers' representatives and the heads of the agricultural chamber have given to the press. One of them is: Precious lawmakers, in the village of Bursa Karacabey Twins, want to establish a small-run organised industry in a region of 2.320 acres. They built a co-op under the name COC, members of the co-op, I'm guessing between eight and ten. There's no way they're in organized industrial areas, because it's expensive for them. This is first-class farmland, so let's take it from here. They're on their way. What happened? They were on their way, but when NGOs and other organizations, the agricultural engineers' room, the agricultural chambers, opposed, they had to find another solution. Friends also found another solution: KOTİYAK met with TOKI (TİKİ) and handed it over to TOKI. Now, at 2,320 acres of first-class farmland, TOKI opened a real estate office in Burma, calling the villagers there, working to make a publicisation of the land at 15,000 lira an acre. So I'd like to express in particular that this is a part of the task of TOKI, my friends. Another thing: I have friends in Newşehir, again -- from Bursa and the Agricultural Commission -- and I say out loud for him, and I hope they hear it, too. They're on the phone, I think the phone call's over -- there's an auto-test center going on. They want to set up on 2,600 acres of mera land. It's wrong to build this center here... but I'd like to point out to the friends there that, unfortunately, before the election, our fellow lawmakers told us that 1,500 people would work, but there wouldn't be so many workers and there wouldn't be so many jobs, because I'd like to say that the farmers of the two villages there - Karacaali and Ankara - would be unhappy. For this reason, I have told you that the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism must help us to protect the land while we do so, and I offer you all my respect and love. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0150par0033	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0151par0037	Mr. President, we see that the Law Proposal on Land Protection and Land Use Law and the Amendment to Turkish Civil Law is being prepared to ensure that the parcels of agricultural land, due to the division of the heritage, will be reduced and agricultural land enterprises will not be reduced to the size of optimal business. In addition to massing practices to increase agricultural production by preventing farms from falling below certain size, some measures and incentives are fundamentally correct. As it is known, collectiveization practices have been under way for years. To this end, Land Protection and Land Use Law No. 5403, dated 3/7/2005, was passed by Parliament, but Law 5403 was not enough to reach the goal we were talking about upstairs. So, in this law, we now see a very comprehensive change. As it turns out, the Law on Land Protection and Land Use 5403 was able to sell shares of land above 20 per cent, so if the land was greater than 20 per cent, the shareholder could sell their shares however he wanted, but under 20 per cent, they couldn't sell shares. This practice restricts the use of property rights from one side, but on the other hand, it could not prevent the sale of shares. According to us, since Law 5403 was enforced without enough discussion, the goal expected from the law was not unique, but there were difficulties with the practice. We also see that Law 5403 has changed its laws without enough discussion. The changes brought in by this law are very comprehensive and important. It concerns a great deal of our population, especially our citizens, who are in charge of agriculture. This law provides extensive restrictions, regulations, and changes on the use of property rights defined in Article 35 of the Constitution. We have noted above that the law may be well-intentioned, but what the law brings, how appropriate it is for the structure of our society, these matters need to be discussed very well, and to be absorbed by everyone, especially our farmers. The general philosophy of the law can be debated for a long time, and it will be difficult to get into all technical details soon. Although the law is prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, it will be enforced by the Tapu and the Kadastro organization and the judiciary. The provisions carried in part from the Turkish Civil Code to this bill must be discussed mainly by lawmakers. In short, this law must not be rushed, it must be discussed in every way. The opinions of agricultural chambers and other organisations who will apply the law must be taken. To make a brief point of view of some of the technical issues at first glance: the death-related heirs of the land used by our agricultural citizens will be subject to the provisions in this law. The heirs will share their farms and agricultural equipment within a year at the latest, so as not to fall under the size set by the Ministry of Agriculture. If the facial measurement of the inheritance is too large, it may not be a problem that it will not fall below the size set after the division, but if the inheritance is less than the size of the land, the heirs will have to agree within a year to sell their shares to one of them or sell the entire estate to a third person. It is not always possible for the heirs to reach a solution as soon as a year. On the other hand, if the heirs do not agree with each other, one of the heirs will file a lawsuit at the ruling court of the peace, and the judge will hand over the land to the heir, on agricultural income value. How to identify the rightful heir, the value of agricultural income, each one of them a problem. We don't want to go into these important details here. Given the workload of the courts, it's possible to see these cases go on for years now, dear friends. If there are several qualified heirs, the land will be handed over to the rightful heir who offers the highest price. If there is no heir to the inheritance in accordance with the requirements demanding the transfer of the agricultural business, the judge will decide to sell. The bill says these sales will be auctioned. In old terms, sales will be held at auctions and auctions. In this case, 18% VAT is calculated at the price of sale, which must be collected. There's an exception to the tax on tuition and stamp in the exceptions and exemptions of the bill, I'm afraid the VAT has been overlooked, Mr. Secretary. The 1st article of the VAT Law (d) was me (change: 16/6/2009-5904/8 md.) As a matter of fact, sales at museum sites and customs warehouses will be subject to taxes on those who will withdraw the product from the warehouse, which is held according to Agriculture Products Licensed Law 5300, dated 10/2/2005. The decree has been issued. This matter needs to be cleared up, Mr. Secretary. On the other hand, if the land that has been handed over to the Ehil heir is increased due to its use of its land for non-advised purposes within the next 20 years after the time of the era, it will be paid to the other heirs who are taking over the land due to the increase. How will the value increase be calculated? How will the heir pay for the return value? I'm afraid the law doesn't have the answers to these and similar questions. The 7th amendment is made to the 17th article of Law 5403. Under the amendment, the substantive land will be merged under the minimum size of the totaling of the land. It is said that the land will be sold directly by the Ministry of Finance, according to its minimum size, according to its minimum-sized farming costs. First of all, what do we mean here by the concept of the land of Tassis? This needs to be cleared up. The Finance Ministry allocates the property in the treasury to be used in the services of relevant public institutions, according to the need, and removes the allocation when there is no need. The collection is an administrative procedure, which cannot qualify for the move. If you refer to the treasures of the area that are massed by the concept of the land, it would be appropriate to place the concept of moving to the treasure rather than the concept of the land that has been created. Second: Treasures to be merged with the person's holdings while massing, gathering, or publicisation will be sold directly to the landowners at a cost. Lands that cannot be sold on Rayic's price will be very well arranged for farmers without adequate farmland to be sold at half the cost of the track. My dear friends, the land is sacred, it cannot be abandoned to its destiny. Our farmer runs the land. Whether it's one or the other or the other or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the other or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the one or the other or the one or the one or the one or the other or the one or the one or the one or the other or the one or the one or the other or the one or the other or the one or the one or the other or the other or the one or the one or the other or the other or the one or the one or the one or the one or the other or the other or the one or the other or the other or the one or the one or the one or the one or the other or the other or the other or the one or the one or the one or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other or the one or the one or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other or the other, or the other or the one or the other, or the other, or the other, or the other, or the other, or the other, or the one or the one or the one or the one or the Entrance costs -- which are very important issues used in diesel, medicine, food, fertilizer, seed and irrigation. The problems with these have been expressed many times, but the solution to the problem is the removal of the OTV and VAT, such as in the naval sector. On the other hand, all our friends have talked about it, and almost every speaker has mentioned it, and I find it useful to repeat: Farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank, agricultural loan co-ops and electricity used in electrical irrigation must be immediately restructured. My dear friends, I've said it over and over again, and it's also useful to repeat that we have extremely empty treasures. If these treasures are leased to agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, landscaping architects by building companies, by setting up conditions, they will contribute to production, add value to employment and unemployment. Respected lawmakers are in need of scraping support from about 1,400,000 tractors in our country, some 700,000 tractors. I'd like to bring this to your attention. I wish for the good luck of the law in these feelings and thoughts, with respect.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0152par0057	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of him, Kütahya MP Alim Ik. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0153par0061	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the second chapter of the Common Law Bill 564 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute the High Council once again. Of course, at a time when new decisions have been made in the world -- especially recently -- to revisit agricultural policies and support producers -- it is sad that there has been no serious adjustment in our country in the last decade, at least in the last 12 years. With this bill that we're discussing today, it is indeed unfortunate for country agriculture that no solution to the major problems involved in agriculture, unfortunately, and that an arrangement regarding them has not come to the Supreme Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as lawmakers have expressed before me, today the agricultural foreign trade deficit in Turkish agriculture is increasing day by day. On the other hand, agriculture has fallen, efficiency has fallen, especially because of high input prices. Therefore, the number of our citizens now in agricultural activity is increasing. Now, while the sector is seriously narrowed down on one side, we have not been able to deal with the problem of employment that has been uncovered from this sector so far, unfortunately, and we haven't been able to come up with a solution. On the other hand, the amount of farmland that is not planted from agricultural land is growing. This can be based on both the decline of efficiency in agriculture and the decline of profitability as well as the size of the agricultural equipment and machines, which will be used for this purpose, unfortunately, on land sizes that are not suitable for tractor use. On the other hand, no less than 1 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient will be supported by the Agricultural Law. Sadly, Turkish agriculture has been tried to sustain it by half the amount of support since the adoption of this law. On the one hand, grain base prices or some products are being announced for base price, but on the other hand, when the branch of the Earth crop office doesn't open in many provinces, our farmer, unfortunately, has to give his product to the merchant at a lower price, forced, in a short time to pay off his debts. Mr. Secretary, I think there's not much to be said for your government, which is announcing the base price, on the one hand, if it's watching product sales that can't even be sold at this price. In fact, today, the problem in Turkish agriculture has also grown dramatically and has become a serious problem. On the other hand, in addition to the bill -- and (1) in the List of Numbers -- if you look at enough income agricultural land sizes, I usually say in terms of cities and counties -- 50 to 100 per cent in watery land, between 120 and 200 per cent in dry land, these agricultural land sizes are listed. However, when you look at it, for example, the dry farmland in Kütahya, Markets district of Kütahya, is 200 dekar, and 200 per cent in the district of Ceylanpınar; on one side the base, flat terrain, and on the other the mountain land. I don't think this rating is based on the right scientific basis. On the other hand, when you look at the obelisks, or the orchards, all over Turkey, it's set to be 10 marks, and again, three marks on the under cover. I think it would be more appropriate for these to be reassessed, based on the basin-based group of fruit and vegetables. Otherwise, there are significant differences in numbers in different counties in the same district of the country, but we think that if this assessment is made in the basins, there will be a more meaningful outcome. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0154par0071	Thank you, Mr. Light. Now we're going to question-answer. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0155par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you in the last chapter, but I don't think you can explain it because it's not enough time. Until now, what was the distribution of the amount of land collections in particular, and the expenditures for this purpose, according to cities or regions? I repeat that question. The second question is: How did agricultural supports be distributed by the region in 2013? In this particular sense, claims that some areas have more agricultural support than they can handle are expected to respond. Again, another question is, how much do our farmers still owe to the Agriculture Bank and to agriculture and loan co-ops? According to previous data, given the repayment rates of loans received, are there serious differences in these proportions? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0156par0079	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0157par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the Black Sea Region, they were unable to benefit and were victimised by support of 2013, due to the support provided by nut producers in the field-based income support, due to lacks of file or failure to deliver files on time. Do you intend to open the system to compensate for the victims of nut manufacturers who could not benefit from their support for 2013 in the Black Sea Region? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0158par0084	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Millerdere...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0159par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. This year, the sunflower costs were around $1.30-1.40 in Thrace, but the farmer had to sell the sunflower for $1. There's 24 cents' worth of support. I just got a call from our villagers, and they're watching these calls very carefully. The sunflower's support was said to have been raised to 30 cents, but we're trying to get it at 24 cents... so people have come to a point where they can count on 6 cents. One, if it's up to 30 cents, why is it paid 24 cents? A second important issue: At a meeting of international participants, Mr. Undersecretary of the European Union said that when the agricultural chapter is completed, the support will be lifted. Do our farmers have any information about this?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0160par0090	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Light's question about massing: Now, our government has completed 4 million hectares in the time of our governments. At the moment, there is a collection of between 2 and 2.5 million hectares. By the end of this year, I hope it ends, so it's six or six and a half million hectares. Between 1961 and 2002, Turkey has gathered 450,000 hectares of land, only we have completed 6.5 million hectares.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0161par0094	Minister, I'm so sorry, can we find out how many deeds you've distributed? Now, they're all procedures, so we're putting together the project, we're building the infrastructure... We know about them, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me, new assets are being determined. So it's not a number that's in front of me right now, so since I didn't know you were going to ask me that question, we're also going to give it to you. Then with the written question... But I'm telling you, in general, it's done in this 6.5 million hectares of land, where the logic behind it is done, what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, and what it's done, it's done in the field roads, and it's done in the watering infrastructure, and it's done in this 6.5 million acres of land. Of course, we're doing it on a volunteer basis here, so it's not something that we do. This is of course: We do a little bit of demand in one area, and we do it in a coordinated way with the DSI, especially in places where there are major irrigation projects of the State Water Department. Why? Because the DSI is building a dam there, it's making irrigation channels, and if we raise massing parallelly, then when the water gets there, it's going to be massed and ready for a new, modern agricultural production field. According to the districts, in the question asked by Mr. Light, we, of course, did it primarily in the GAP region, that's why. Because the dam is built, the water is collected, the canals are made, so this will be done parallelly so that the system can be built with the channels ready for water. The top priority project areas, the GAP project area, the KOP, are now being done on our program, the Conium Plain Project and the DAP project provinces. In other regions of the GAP, for example, there are 2 million 463,000 hectares in the KOP region, 566,000 hectares in the DAP region, 438,000 hectares in the DAP region, and other cities in the Aegean region, another one in the Aegean region, another 1.5 million hectares outside the project area, 1 million 451 thousand hectares. DOKAP is already in the area of 14,000 hectares, and thus about 5 million hectares. Now, in support, we do this: not according to the region, but according to the product; so, what product, which we need strategically, is more concerned with the farmers in Turkey, the producers, what product is essential to us, and what is essential to us, in light of these, for example, the oil seed, is a product of our deficit. We pay the premium for the fat seed. For example, the sunflower was 24 cents, we raised 30 cents, and now, the money we're going to pay this year -- the money we're going to pay for the sunflower in May 2014, June 2014. I mean, not for 24 cents, but for 30 cents. Dear friends receive our total support, bonus, plus other benefits, which will correspond to about 37-38 per cent of the sunflower cost. So it's definitely over 35 percent...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0162par0106	He doesn't have to win anything! GIDA, FORGIVE MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) Excuse me... It's about 35 percent. Now, cotton, sunflowers, soy, canola, these are fatty seeds, the products we need because Turkey imports them. The grain on the other side is because millions of people in Turkey are planting grain, our basic food material. So, wheat, barley, corn, etcetera, that's a category. In addition, we've brought important support pens for the animalism that we've already started, which were not. For example, while livestock is only 4.4 per cent of total support, we are currently giving 30 per cent of all agricultural benefits to livestock. We give them to wherever there's livestock in Turkey. It's the same for other products, so wherever there's product, because it's given over kilograms, over ton, whatever, but some of these supplements, you know, can be given over space because it's not very practical, so it's not very possible to apply it. Loans: Again, as of now, the loan balance is 25 billion 685 million Turkish liras as of late March 2014. A congressman just spoke to us on the stand about private banks. In the numbers I'm telling you, private banks don't have agricultural loans, I'm just giving out loans to the Agriculture Bank and the agricultural loan co-ops. I mean, that's the amount that the Agriculture Bank and the agricultural loan co-ops gave the farmer...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0163par0111	What amount, Mr. Secretary? Look, in 2013, the total loan balance was 24 billion dollars, and at the end of March 2014, $25 billion 685 million. Let me tell you about the comebacks here. Look, in 2013... I said it was 36.4, so it's private and it's a total of... Mr. Deputy, in 2013, the loans returned 98.15 percent. That's because of the private banks, Mr. Secretary. Sir, this private bank... I can't call it that. I mean, he bought farmers at the Farm Bank... But you're not saying I'm seeing a citizen, we know. Mr. Deputy, the farmer, the farmer, pays back the farmer's loan from the Agriculture Bank and agriculture loan 98.15 per cent. So, that's the bottom line. Mr. Secretary, would you comment on getting four times as many loans from the banks as possible? GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (Diyarbakir) ▪ In the same way...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0164par0121	The farmer's in debt up to his neck, Mr. Secretary. Now, you can call it the credit or the credit... we call it the credit.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0163par0123	No, no, Mr. Secretary, agriculture support... You know, when he's not given a loan, he can't get a double loan, but there's a chance that the loan will be repaid. Mr. Secretary, that's not what I'm saying. A farmer who owes nine times as much to the banks as he does to agriculture supports, comment on that. Now, when you get up and people get loans, they get loans, so they're in debt. I mean, I'm not saying anything, it depends on how you interpret it. You can interpret it for once. Again, Mr. Light, Mr. Light doesn't buy enough land, farmers become victims. TMO received 300 points last year, totaling 1 million 373,000 tonnes of corn, 1 million 986,000 tons of wheat. Although there was record production in both the corn and the wheat in Turkey last year, thank God for both of them, we didn't find any trouble in that sense. Mr. Yilmaz spoke on the stand on the subject of VAT implementation of the product in licensed storage. The amendment to the VAT Application Report on 26/4/2014 was decided that the VAT would not be applied if the product was removed from the language warehouse without changing hands, and I'll tell you about the new VAT application. Number of registered CDCs in the nut: 322,000 people have applied. The application period was a year. Other than that, there are about 150 farmers who have not applied to us, and 396 thousand people who have applied here for a year as of December 31st 2013, to apply for support from the NCS registered system. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0165par0133	You should reconsider the VAT issue, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0166par0134	Now, we have a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0167par0135	Mr. Secretary, 24 cents is paid. When did you pay 30?
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0166par0136	Mr. Millerdere, come in, ask your question.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0167par0137	Mr. Secretary, the villagers have received 24 cents today... so if there's any mistake, please advise them to correct it. Twenty-four cents... they just called me on the phone, so where's 30 cents? I mean, that's one. If there's any mistake, sir, we'd like it corrected. I'd also like to ask you that hundreds of thousands of acres of land have changed hands in Thrace. I wonder if there's any point in keeping these base prices low, when the peasant pulls out the land in his hands, where the land will gather in certain hands? And there's land in the collection now, which is not left to the village's corporate personalities, but instead to be put on the market. Isn't it a natural right for these people to be left to the village's corporate personality, which is now 10 percent of the village's land cut off? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0168par0141	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. We're out of time, but please respond in writing.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0169par0143	I'm so sorry, Mr. President. About VAT just now, Mr. Secretary, the law is superior to the notification... the law is superior. I specifically urge you to reconsider the VAT issue, which needs to be cleared up. GEDA, AGENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER I think the law is better, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0170par0147	I don't think there's any, it's already superior.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0169par0148	I don't think so. I'm sorry. I think I'm taking back the law.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0171par0149	I think so, sir. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are no motions on the material on the second section. Now, I'm going to put the articles to your votes in order. I submit to your votes Article 8/H of Article 5: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 8/I of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 8/I of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 8/J of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 8/K of Article 5 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 6 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 7 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 8 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 9 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 10 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 11 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 12 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the clear vote of Bill 564 ranked: [[X]] Mine Leuk White Fehmi Cubic So the bill is accepted and legalized. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you my word, but Mr. Korkmaz is in the system, so I'll give him my word for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0172par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish, on this occasion, that the law be blessed first. However, I'd like to share an illegality with our General Assembly. I'm sure our Gaziantep MPs are here, and I wanted to make a promise to inform them of it, at least to act on justice, justice. Now, 51 specialists are being recruited by the Correctional Municipality before the March 30th local elections, and the new elected mayor after the elections, I didn't take them, they're not my officers. He's throwing them out illegally. I would like to remind you that such practices do not serve our state tradition or the sense of justice, and I would like to call both the government and the Gaziantep MPs on the mission to resolve this matter as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0173par0191	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. I'd like to call Mr. Secretary to the stand for a thank-you speech. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, I thank you very much. Today, indeed, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have immediately passed a very good bill, which will have very, very important consequences not only for today but for the next century. I thank all of our MPs, our highly valued members of our opposition parties, our MPs, the members of the group, and all the members of the group, both the Republican People's Party and the members of the People's Democratic Party and the Justice and Development Party. We didn't bring a new regulation of anyone's right to property, a new legislation to block it; we need all our MPs and our entire nation to be welcome. Our concern is that our farmland, our national wealth, our national presence has become unappropriate, unusable. We say to the heirs: we offer you options, agree on one of these options, and maintain this asset; either run it together in the form of a partnership of family property; if you can't agree with each other, build a limited company; if everyone shares a share in the inheritance, then turn it over to someone else, whether you work together or agree with each other. With the rest of the leftovers and so on and so on and so forth, we predict that the rights in that area will be given to the farmers in that area, especially if they don't. These are the regulations here, so... The other thing is, one of our deputies said, "Is there a violation of property rights here?" Our earlier regulation on this law was discussed by the Constitutional Court on Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, which was discussed by the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court ruled that it did not constitute a violation of property rights. The Supreme Court's 17/5/2012 date and original 2011/58 verdict 2012/70 was also ruled that it was not contrary to the Constitution. We'll run our land more efficiently. So that the heirs, or those partners, or those company members, will be able to make a new arrangement on the land, in order to satisfy their appetites. They'll be able to invest in that land now that they'll own it legally, they'll be able to mechanize it, and they'll be able to run it more efficiently. I think it's a very good law. In 2005 they accused us. Why didn't you bring us before? The Law 5403 and we ruled that the parcel could not be divided under 10 pieces, and then we raised it to 20 degrees, and now we're bringing it into business. In the end, it's a process, we don't want social complications, and we don't want everyone to agree, just like in today's Great National Assembly of Turkey, with everyone's agreement, it's a matter of about a hundred years of Turkey's will, a problem like this today, that's the way to resolve the situation. I thank you all very much, very much. Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Eker. Mr. Mazicıoğlu, come in, sir. It's about the speech just now.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0174par0211	Mr. President, thank you. Dear Regents, I'd like to respond to what my Deputy Nevzat has to say. He's talking about Gaziantep, İslahiye district of Gaziantep. Unfortunately, this is what happens in the election, but I want you to hear the truth from me. Mr. current mayor, when he finds out he's going to lose, he buys 51 specialist sergeants. I got a chance to see their parents. Our Islamic City will pay for it, not even pay for it.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0175par0213	Sir, they're both from the same party, your...
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0174par0214	No, it's not the same party, it's the Democratic Party; it's not the same party, Mr. Nevzat. He went to the Great Unity Party, and he's not an AK PARTY. When he realized he was leaving, he realized he couldn't be chosen, then he did something like this. When we met with his family, you were right. I said, "The mayor doesn't have a chance to pay for this." I said, "Let's know about it, and all the Gaziantep MPs are in charge of it.
tbmm-2014-04-30sit04spe0176par0215	Thank you, Mr. Mazicioğlu. We begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Legislature, which is ranked in the 4th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Somali Federal Government of Health and Medical Sciences. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Thus, in accordance with the decision taken, it is on a special agenda (9/8), (9/3), (9/4), (9/5) and (9/6) to discuss the main parliamentary inquiry motions on Monday (May 5th 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
