tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Congressmans, today is Valentine's Day, February 14th. Today is a special day where love and love are remembered more, and happy for all of us. [[Applause]] To love is to believe, to live, to be the way he loves. Love leads to two, love goes to one. There are no two hearts in love, one heart, one heart. There's no end to love, there's no giving up, there's no giving up as long as there's a loved one. Where there's love, there's no desire. Love is not waiting, it's the end of expectations. To love is not to be offended, but to learn not to feel sorry for your lover's word is to give without taking it. It's to be able to answer the crying eyes with compassion and smile. To look where love looks, to be where it stops. To love is to trust, to be the port of love in intimacy, in sincerity, in nature; to be the life of your loved one, to be a fire, to be a flame, to enter hearts. [[Applause]] I wish you all the best of humanity's special day to carry the innocence and love of the children of Eve and Adam. [[Applause]] The Grand National Assembly of Turkey needed this much, thank you very much. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Elazığ MP Shuay Albany, who wants to speak about the priorities of Elazığ. Here you go, Mr. Albany.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the priorities of Elazıg. That's why I salute the grand jury. One of the most important things that grows as we share is love, and I celebrate Valentine's Day. Of course, it's possible to make the priorities of Elazýg and Harput. The site of ancient cultures, the center of civilization, and the culture of urbanism very high, but very simply, I'd like to share a few things with you in the main sentences. Our hand is a city in the health department, especially in the top ten. The number of qualified beds in this regard has been achieved through hospital conditions and overall quality. However, the Elazig region and city hospital, which we have recently laid its foundation under the instructions of our Prime Minister, is coming to life as a huge, huge integrated project. God willing, it will be a major project with general hospitals, private residency hospitals, and, depending on that, we will continue to grow targets and keep our Elizızýzı as an important centre in the region. I know it's an obligation to thank our Prime Minister in particular. Of course, plans are made for the development of the city as it prioritizes its development. These plans were made, and some priorities were determined. So we worked on it. In this context, agriculture and animalism were another important industry in terms of the city, and we're doing land collection, depending on modern methods in agriculture. By the end of June 2015, we will hopefully have completed the total collection of 410,000 acres of land, 26,000 acres in the district center, 140,000 acres. Depending on that, we've come to an important stage in the city, which has been very important and long longed for the Uluabat Watering Project, and the planning phases are over, and they're now running out of tender preparation for the implementation project. In 2014, we'll continue our work on hopefully implementing the main project, or rather implementing its tender. Of course, co-ordinating in these two areas was important, depending on the need to do a study on increasing product patterning, increasing product diversity, and implementing high-profit products. And there's still work going on about it. It's also a special geography, especially in terms of almonds and grapes. We've also prepared an Almond Action Plan with our friends on almonds. We've done this project with the work of our forest district director. By the end of 2017, we will have implemented a total of 17,500 acres. I think it's a small project, hopefully we're making preparations to promote it, but even from this little project alone, we expect a revenue of $40 million at the end of the period of about five years. Of course, by the way, we're in a very important approach to planning. It's 1/100 on Elazig. We're doing a very serious work on the 2,000-lead environmental plan. We're particularly on a model that might be an example. Together with the governorship, the political institution, our fellow lawmakers, relevant institutions and NGOs, we plan this plan. But while we're planning this, we intend to do it within a master's plan, along with the local planning directorate. We're working hard at the moment to bring urban transformation to life, but here, again, as I said, we care that it should come to life within a master's plan, and based on that, we continue our services. Another important thing to say here, Harput, is that you know that we're going to evaluate the central and urban transformation of historical ancient cultures. With the support of our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in this matter, God willing, this project will work. Depending on that, Elazig and its environment, Harput, were declared a cultural and tourism protection development zone by the Council of Ministers. In this context, we've taken advantage of this opportunity and accelerated our work. Again, depending on this, we're freeing Caspian Lake from the pollution around it, making it a special lake where it completes the biodegradation and regains its blue flag, and we're still working on it. Our Caspian Lake was a naval and water sports training centre in the context of increasing internal water potential. Our work on this is being resumed. Another wealth is our Elazýspor. Our Elazizüspor is currently fighting in the Super League, and, you know, the only team representing the Eastern Anatolian region, but our Prime Minister's instruction, with the promise of this city, we wish to crown it. I'd like to share with you both that project work has been accelerated and it's reached the final stage. There's so much to do for the city, so much to say. I'm especially a brother who believes in the potential of the city. That's what we're working on with our congressman friends. We're working on it. I believe that the most important wealth is human resources. I salute you with heart and love and respect as I wish all beauty to Elizizg, to Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Bursa MP Aykan Erdemir, who wants to talk about information economics and internet freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0004par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our citizens who are watching us on the Internet. A better life for our country and our children is undoubtedly a common desire for all of us. The way to do that is to improve the information economy and save Turkey from the middle income trap. Unfortunately, Turkey is ranked 55th among the 128 countries in the 2013 Global Competitiveness Index. What do we need to do in order to make our 55th ranked country one of the world's 10 largest economies? How do we get access to information economics, patent and useful model production, high-end production patterns and strong brands? Are colleges, techno parks, RD centers enough to be a knowledge society? Today, when Internet bans are keeping Turkey busy, let's look for the answers together. During his visit to Finland last year, Prime Minister Erdogan asked Mikael Hed, director of a company called "Angry Birds," who produced the game, "Why is this bird angry?" Instead of asking why this bird is angry, what is the secret to a success story like Angry Bird? Angry Bird is the creation of three students who graduated from Helsinki University of Technology in 2003. Today, Angry Bird employs 650 people and reaches 2 billion consumers, earning 150m euros a year. Each year it creates enough added value to fill 45 shoeboxes. Turkey has an angry Prime Minister. Will there ever be a success story like Angry Bird? We can't invent, we can't invent. We're a country of agriculture. What are we gonna do? We're a land of inter-tech guys, he said. I wonder if it really is. Let's take a look at ODTÜ Technocity. If that's how these teachers train their students, shame on them. We do not need such teachers. Let us see what ODTÜ professors and students have accomplished. The video game, developed in ODTÜ Technokent, was the number 86 on the world's list of 100 best games of all time. In 2012, he made $3 million in income. He continues to create qualified jobs. We need stories like ODTU Technokent everywhere. The Grantary Valley initiative is a project that has been set in motion for this purpose. The success of the project, which the Eskishir Bilcik Development Agency supports for $1 million, will be determined by qualified people who are attracted to the success of the project in the coming process. Last year in London, I visited the Silicon Crossroad, known as the Silicon Roundabout. In five years, I asked him, "What is the secret to the success of the 5,000 start-up companies, as well as many major investors?" The official who accompanied us asked us that question all the time. Then he showed the announcements of entertainment and art events that decorated cafes, bars, restaurants, and walls that filled the streets with his finger. This is the setting of freedoms that attracts creative people to Tech City. He added after saying: "The first demand of entrepreneurs here is freedom." So even though our universities, our techno parks, our RD centers and factories are supported by incentives, grants and tax exemption policies, they are not enough for the competitive information economy. The way to access high-end production patterns and strong brands based on patents and useful models is through creative classes. Creative classes feed on the climate of freedoms and quickly abandon oppressive geography, which is restricted by freedoms. And let's not forget that the investment climate of a country with a climate of freedoms that is broken is not improving. Our President, Mr. Abdullah Gul, will decide whether to veto the Internet law, while in fact Turkey will decide what its climate of freedoms and investment will be. Will Turkey be a country that attracts the IT sector, creative classes and the economics of knowledge, or will Turkey be a land of inter-tech workers who suffer chronic unemployment in the middle-income trap and, as a minister calls it, can't invent? I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan (Iğdır) who wants to talk about the problems of the Ahiska Turks. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0005par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Congressman Sadik Yakut, has just made a very romantic entrance, opening the House with a romantic poem and words, and talking about the importance of love. That's right. Indeed, love is important. It's especially important in our Parliament these days, it's important in our Turkey. But if only you had shown that love to the Ali Ismail Korkmaz, to the prosecutors, to the judges you were driving on the winter day of the HSYK, to those orphans when the bale was defeated, then your message on Valentine's Day and the message of love would have made sense. Dear lawmakers, perhaps one of the parts where we show love is the Turks of Ahikka, who still have no citizenship in Turkey, who remain a refuge in a corner in Turkey. I'm afraid your government's interest in the Turks of Ahiska, who have come to know this place from their homeland, has shown no interest in immigrants from Syria. Of course, in difficult circumstances from Syria, we will show love to people who are facing death here, we will embrace it, but we will not forget that there are problems with the Ajussi Turks, as well as with our other people and relatives. By the way, February 15th -- although today is called Valentine's Day -- is tomorrow, February 15th, the anniversary of the death of our lyrical martyr, Necmettin Star. On February 15, 1980, he was killed in the ground, so that the stove wouldn't go out, the tyrant wouldn't stop, the flag wouldn't come down. I hereby bless all our martyrs. The Ahiska Turks, who were taken from their homes in 1944, fought for life and death in Siberia, a significant part of them lost their lives, but the rest of them continue to live in exile even today. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoglu, who sold himself to them in the Middle East, is not with them in the struggle to return to his homeland, Mr. Prime Minister, who has declared himself leader of the region, is not with them. Turkey's Ahıska Turks suffer from failure to become citizens as well as the lack of proper attention and attention. Not much, I'll just give you two examples. For example, since he has not yet been granted our citizenship, his elderly parents and family are left in the middle because one of our people, the Turk of Ahiska and the people whom Azerbaijan gave him citizenship, went to the army to do his patriotic duty. Or another Ahiska Turk who suffered all the suffering of World War II, because he's 90 years old and he's not given citizenship, and our people are also looking for attention, attention, in a situation that needs help. Of course, it's our fault too to be a Turk from Ayska? Do we have to go to Syria and come here to benefit ourselves from free medical benefits? Our people ask us these questions, and I ask you from here, O rulers. You may be able to remove subtitles through the Alo Fatih Line, but you will not be able to silence these people's silent cries, and I have to express it. Under Law 3585, the common Turks have entered Turkey since 92, but have still not received Turkish citizenship. For some reason, Rabia Kadir is not allowed in Turkey because he is Turkish, and because Ahiska Turks are Turks, he cannot see interest and interest in Turkey, and I have to express that. The common Turks still haven't been granted their pension. The diplomas they received from the former Soviet Republics are not recognized here, so they suffer from lack of employment. In short, just because they're Turkish, unfortunately, the Ahiska Turks say they're out of interest and interest in the AKP's power, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0006par0063	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully request and request the opening of Parliamental research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98 and TBM Institution, in order to determine the measures that need to be taken by investigating international transport issues in our country. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mersin]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 6) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Paddles]] 9) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Kayseri]] [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Yozgat]] [[Kastamon]] [[Inconceived]] 23) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] Our country's movers, who deliver our foreign trade from 3 continents to 75 countries on the ground each year and make an average of 1 million exports, are suffering from driver's license laws. The driver's licenses and licenses that movers receive in accordance with the current legislation within Turkey are not accepted by the official authorities of some countries they transport. For this reason, he faces significant difficulties at border crossings. In order to overcome this problem, our movers have to receive a medical license in exchange for a certain allowance. Despite global competition and rising cost pressures, our movers are fighting to deliver our foreign trade goods to the furthest corner of the world faster than rival country movers. The industry's efforts to deliver its loads at lower costs lead to serious burdens for international road transport and logistics. The average number of drivers working in the international land-and-loading and logistics sector is around 150,000. Each of these drivers is applying for a state-owned driver's license, paying high fees to ensure that the driver's licenses they received from our country are valid abroad. Drivers pay $295 per driver's license, which is already valid in our country, on the condition that their driver's license is valid abroad. On the other hand, it is required to pay $100 per vehicle per car to obtain and renew a traffic registration document with international validation of vehicles only for transport via international land routes each year. As it is known, drivers are given pre-flight expenses for fuel costs, highways, bridges, tunneling fees, park expenses and mandatory expenses to cover their flights abroad. In addition, pre-flight fees are paid to provide for drivers' personal needs, such as food, drink, communication with the company, accommodation. However, this application, which has been paid to drivers before the flight by international transport companies, can lead to different interpretations and decisions by courts, especially in the cases of drivers whose contract of employment has ended and their severance and other purchases. Therefore, tuition payments should be accepted as the expense of the company, not as an additional payment for the drivers' income. In Europe, the number of logistical centres that have developed since the 1970s is now more than 100. In Germany alone, 33 logistic villages have been established in the last 20 years, and most of them are more than 200 hectares in size. There are 1,250 firms in all established logistic villages in Europe, and they employ 42,000 people in total. Moreover, in recent years, logistical centers and investments have also become widespread in countries in the Middle East and Asia. In our country, especially in the foot of the railroad, it must have a real logistical center. The logistical center must be connected to at least three types of transport. In our country, the areas that are being tried to be carried out under the name ▪ logistical center are limited to cargo terminal projects. This poses the risk of investments turning into unnecessary expenditures, especially since it is planned in all aspects, especially without the real economic potential of cities or regions. The creation of logistical villages in our country is an inevitable necessity. Therefore, it would be appropriate to establish a parliamentary research commission under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Institution, in order to investigate international transport issues in our country and take the necessary precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Çeltik is one of Turkey's major agricultural products. In the country, increased per capita consumption of rice has also resulted in increased calcification, especially after 1980. Our main areas in the development of the plastic are the Marmara, the Black Sea, the Central North and the Aegean region. Our cities, in turn, are Edirne, Balıkesir, Samsun and Çorum, which are produced the most. Some 95,000 acres of irrigated land have been harvested. As of 2010, 1,308 farmers registered to the tripod commission have been identified as planting the Goönen Baldo and Osmancik in an area of 94 thousand per cent. In 2010, 860,000 tonnes (5166,000 tonnes for rice) were produced in an area of 99,000 hectares, according to reports released by the Earth crop office on 29 February 2012. In 2011, production is estimated to be 900,000 tonnes (540,000 tonnes for rice) with an increase of around 5 per cent compared to last year. Our country is about 600,000 tonnes of annual rice consumption. Turkey is not a self-sufficient country in the production of tics, but it is a country that has a potential for self-satisfaction, increasing its efficiency over the years. In particular, in the year 2000, the production of the "Osmanic" species developed by the Thracian Institute for Agricultural Research increased efficiency, with 350,000 tonnes in 2000 reaching 860,000 tonnes in 2010. However, access to this efficiency has yet to save Turkey from becoming an importer's country on the subject of seduction. According to TÜİK's data on plant prices and production value on April 30, 2012, the price of the trip to 2011 was $17.97, reducing by 17.1 per cent compared to the previous year. The cost of $1.13 in 2008, $1.25 in 2009, and 1.17 pounds in 2010 dropped every year. However, there has been no significant increase in the gap payments (prim) called the most important pen of agricultural support. There was no increase from last year to the price of a price of $8. In 2011, diesel support was $3.75 per decedent, with a small increase of 25 cents, and fertilizer support was also supported by a small increase of £5. 2012. In the first instance, there have been high rates of diesel, fertilizer, and irrigation inputs. According to the Ministry of Food Agriculture and Petting, fertilizer prices increased between 247 per cent and 312 per cent from 2002-2011. The amount of tax paid by the plastic manufacturer is close to nearly all of the agricultural support budget because of the indirect tax burden on diesel alone. About $1.5 of what our village manufacturer paid for a gallon of masoths is a TLV. With the farmer's support, the price paid for the mazota is only 5 per cent. The lack of support, in addition to the lack of time, prevents support from reaching its goal. The reason why the plastic manufacturer doesn't produce any more is because of lack of water. Finally, the 400 per cent increase in watering services by the Heart Plains Watering Association is an example of the public not being given at the appropriate prices for the plant manufacturers. The sale of public water to suppliers at exorbitant prices threatens the future of the product production. The price of electricity and watering union used in agricultural irrigation is high, increasing costs, bringing the manufacturer to a point where they can't produce. We demand to be investigated for the development of policies that will allow us to get out of the position of the country. We demand to be conducted by Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Gaziantep]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] [[Aydın]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 12) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 14) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 20) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Çanakkale]] 24) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The purpose of the Law on the prevention of Violence and Disorganisation in Sports No. 6222, which was published in the Official Gazette in 2011, has been determined to be a prevention of violence and disorder in the 2011-2012 season, especially in football, basketball and volleyball, and in sports areas around them, where fans are constantly or temporarily in groups, or where the competition will be held, but in 2011-2012, there has been an unprecedented atmosphere of hostility, hatred and violence, and violence. During this period, all parts of the sport, including athletes, managers and supporters, have been exposed to this atmosphere of violence, where violence has been routineized against athletes and other team fans, teams struggling in the field have been removed from the stadiums in extraordinary conditions, even athletes and club managers have been involved in fights. In particular, the events of football have turned the 100-year-old clubs against each other, the decisions made by the Federations, who lost their coordination and were subjected to political pressures, eventually made this atmosphere even more insurmountable, while waiting in front of the courthouse for the necessary measures of political power, from the fans exposed to the disproportionate use of plastic bullets and pepper gas to support their team, to those who were victims of verbal and physical violence. The sport, which should represent such values as peace, too vocalism, fair competition, gentlemanliness, moral competition, has become the basis for violence within the country, which is far different from those values. For all these reasons, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary examination of all sports events, especially football, basketball and volleyball, in the 2011- 2012 season, as part of the Constitution's 101th and 105th Articles of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to investigate increased violence and the reasons for this violence, to determine the measures that should be taken by those responsible. [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] 8) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Malatya]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 18) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's meeting Friday (14/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. It has been suggested that the Council of Turkey's General Assembly agenda should be met together in Friday's 14/2/2014 Friday unification of the General Assembly's agenda for the opening of a parliamentary investigation to determine measures that should be taken by all dimensions of the obstacles to freedom of the press in Turkey (10/76). The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal in favour of Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0007par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we submitted a motion to investigate all aspects of the barriers to freedom of the press in Turkey. We know that there is a separation of powers in democracies, judgment, legislation, execution; and it's always said that as a fourth power, media is the most important force in the creation of democracy, freedom of news. Unfortunately, lately, when we call it the press, we can't talk about anything good about Turkey when we call it the memedia. So, it turns out that we are in a very bad ranking of freedom of organization, a country with the number of arrested journalists in the world number one. Our 1st place is so high that when we look at the statements of all the journalists, organizations, all of them, for example, from the Committee for Protection of International Journalists to Journalists Without Borders, from the national communities in Turkey... Now, first of all, I'd like to send my love from here to all the arrested journalists who are currently in prison because they're still free to do the news, because they're not in the media line. Now, it's very clear that even though Turkey, yes, has signed the Universal Bill of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, and all contracts, in Turkey, media conglomerates in Turkey, especially in the energy and mining area, media conglomerates in the media, especially in the energy and mining area, media holdings, unfortunately, do not do a free job, press work, especially in Turkey's imports, such as energy. Because of their interests and their threat, the press, unfortunately, is not very pleasant in a telephone line, in the line of a tax audit, in case tax inspectors are sent to energy and mining companies again. Look, in Turkey, there are four parties in Parliament. The process of resolution, the process of peace, the process of brotherhood is so important that no one cares. In our press conference yesterday, the very historical, important statements, the proposals of our group's presidents, are not even in the press as a line. Yeah, we know, what used to be? You know, there was Mehmetchik press, so there was acretized, epalytic media from the Joint Chiefs of Staff. You guys know about the epaulet media, right? In the Apauletian media, the Chiefs of Staff said: "You, you, you, you will come, you will not be allowed to enter the others. This was Turkey's freedom of the press. Next thing we know, the government realizes, there's a parallel press. The latest item on the agenda is now printed. In an environment where freedom of the press is threatened, we all know that local media is already under pressure from economic problems, ads, local press, governors, governors, police commissioners, commanders, and they don't have one word against them, and they don't have one guarantee. The whole media conglomerates, they're shaking. Huge media conglomerates deal with politics as capital to profit from their own mining companies. There are 12 media holdings in energy imports and energy in Turkey's nuclear and thermal plants, all of HES plants. We don't have to name them one by one, the PM is already going to opening ceremonies with those bosses. But I want to make it clear from here that these bosses, these businessmen, and those who gain from the backs of the nation, and disbelieve, these people will also be held accountable for the disbelievers. Look, I'm telling you straight, everyone gets paid for what they've done. We're looking at reports from the International Publishers Association, pointing out media-commercial relations. The political bond, media, politicians, plus the media that is now involved in intelligence, from the parallel within the state and even from Gladio, from the Special Harp to here. Yes, this media is not a free media, it's not a free press, it's the House's duty to free it, my friends. If you don't set this free, you'll be behind countries like Nicaragua, Tanzania, Kuwait. This is a terrible place where Turkey fell today. Who can say that Turkey can be proud of its freedom of the press at this point? The Prime Minister can easily silence it with one phone call, make any ban he wants. A government consultant from the Prime Minister can immediately get a columnist removed from his post. Look, you all know how a lot of columnists get laid off; they've written and opposed things that the government doesn't like. But don't forget, today Hasan Cemal had also fallen in writing. When I was writing where I was, the Prime Minister asked my boss to terminate me. From here, I say to all the press workers, all the press workers, with openness and heart, that we have a reckoning with those who oppress you. If you are left in the hands of workers, you will act as a good press and journalist for the future of Turkey. The press workers have nothing to do with this. This is the result of the publishing principles set by media bosses and this terrible pressure. On the one hand, private court officials, from the other side of the finances, private, confidential witnesses and press silence, and especially Kurdish press, the left press, the socialist press, especially all those who oppose and stand firm in this country, I salute from here. Besides, I'm calling it a kisser -- I'm calling it a bribe, a bribe, money, and for that reason, I curse the people who put the press in this position. These people are cursed. No matter which side, which party, which team they're around, they're traitors to this country, and they're destructive. Let those creatures know that this country has a conscience, a human being above their money. There's no point in knowing this much freedom of the press, this much profit, this violent behavior, this violent policy. We have nothing to say to the shooter, ally, ally, ally, to the press here. We say: As long as there is no freedom of the press in this country, as long as the journalists of this country are imprisoned, democracy does not come to this country, and I salute all journalists, arrested journalists, convicted journalists again from here.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0008par0262	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal in Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0009par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in against the BDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, it's Valentine's Day, and Mr. Speaker put it in a good word. It's the most beautiful feeling that grows as you share love and love when you have to express love and love in poetry, and all the lovers of Sezai Karakoch have a beautiful poem that covers all the love, says in those verses: "Dear / Dear / Dear / Longer world exile..." Therefore, I wish for a life in which all love is in our country and in the world, where love, peace and brotherhood are exalted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, before I begin my speech, I'd like to point out a few issues about the Ajska Turks, about the previous non-responsive conversation. Because I'm also a Ahiska Turki and I think I've been briefed on the Turks of Ahiska, so I'm going to go into a few details as fast as I can. We've taken very serious steps to address the victims of our fellow citizens' rights at the time, and I must say, as the Ajussie Turk, that, in March 2009, thousands of our descendants have continued to take advantage of this right, as well as our President's decision. Right now, our brothers and sisters, who had to flee Stalin's tyranny and leave their homeland in 1944, the steps we took for our family members are of great value. Mr. Huseyin Şahin, President of the Friendship Group of Georgia, and we must make it very clear that we are taking serious steps not only in Turkey's dimension but also in the international arena so that only their presence can continue and return to their land. And not only do I want to point out the benefits that have been given during our administration, not only in terms of civil rights, but also in health care and in terms of getting a work permit. Dear lawmakers, the agenda of the BDP group proposal is about freedom of the press. I'd like to point out that freedom of expression and freedom of press are one of the integral elements of our democracy, but first, I'd like to report from a press conference today. What was the press conference today? Again, a female deputy from the Republican People's Party, unfortunately, a fellow man, has held a press conference. A press conference on Valentine's Day, but at this meeting, he also said a few sentences about the incident with Kabataş in Istanbul, and later expressed that they would sue our Prime Minister as a contender. For one thing, when you look at that press release, there's information about violence on the woman, and then there's information on women's victims, but what do you do after that, my friends? It's interesting, he's making statements to a woman, to a mother, about her own testimony -- as if she were judging her victimology. I really blame a woman for doing this. I'd like to draw special attention to the sadness I've heard from a female proxy, and I find it false, and I don't find it sincere, and I really mean it from the bottom of my heart, here, this morning...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0010par0274	Insincere, Bluto speech. This case has been compromised, the Prime Minister has lied.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0009par0275	...a press release has been issued to the Anadolu Agency. Our concerned victim brother held a press conference through his lawyer, and he pointed out something very interesting at this press conference; look, the prosecutor of the Republic is making a confidentiality decision; all lawyers, all individuals, the accused and everyone in the room know that if there is a confidentiality investigation, if there is a non-disclosure, you can't speak judgmental about it; in a legal system, I'll leave you the picture, perception and assessment of the extent of the breach in Turkey, which is the state of the law. So you're going to talk about violence, women's cruelty, and then a mother, and then she's hurt, and she's left with her seven-month-old baby, and she's carrying her tears back to the press today, and look, our topic is very interesting, the freedom of the press, and our topic is very interesting, the expression of the press again. So, where are the personal rights and freedoms? The victimhood of an individual, and he's upset again, crying again, going through the same trauma again. Who has the right? How can anyone have the right? When you think about what they're doing with their seven-month-old baby's instinct for protection, I don't think there's anything as ugly as politicizing it. I'm saying it as a mother. Let it be, as a human being, more than an individual, more than a woman, no one has the right to restore that trauma to that mother. Okay, the press is free. I've eaten bread in this profession for years, and I've done my duty as a press card holder in this business, but while the press is fulfilling its responsibilities, what should we pay attention to in accordance with the principle and the laws set by the press? You have to pay attention to the public interest, you have to pay attention to personal, individual rights and freedoms, because when you look at the whole thing, you'll see that, you'll see the whole picture. I want to start with that part because I'm really impressed with what I'm saying in that sense. The BDP made a group suggestion about freedom of the press, but now that he's gone, he doesn't care about the answer either. In this regard, we have regulations in the Press Law, in the Turkish Penal Code, and in RTÜK, and if they're curious, they'll look and they'll find out, but there's nothing they can do if they're trying to make Turkey political, if they're going to try to show it somewhere else. That's not the opposition, you're not so right when you raise your voice too high, and when you put it out there, you're not expressing the truth about it. In law, the opinion and opinion of the individual are important, and his testimony is real and true acceptable. Again, I'm going to go over the morning meeting again. As a woman, as women's rights, Turkey's point between yesterday and today is very valuable. At this morning's press conference, violence is about this much. However, when you look at real numbers, between yesterday and today in both employment and social rights, in the last ten years -- you can't go straight from the first floor of the stairs to the top -- you can see that step by step has come to a certain point, that employment rates have come to a serious point, that Turkey has given good pictures in education, that the World Health Organization has taken the example of baby and mother mortality rates. You're going to ignore all of this, and you're going to interpret it in a non-serious way, in terms of never being sincere and unrealistic, and then you're going to do politics on the victimization of a woman, a mother. It's not appropriate, it's not for anyone. It's not called politics, it's called neither conscience nor human nor politics to me. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0011par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0012par0283	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0011par0284	Sir, if I haven't misheard Mr. Kaynar speaking, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0013par0285	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0011par0286	...explaining that he was speaking against the truth at a press conference -- he didn't give the identity of our MP, either, but -- he made a statement to our group, and I'd like to make a promise.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0014par0287	There's no teasing the group, Mr. President, there's nothing to do with the congressman.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0015par0288	Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, for two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0011par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I expected that Mr. Kaynarca would say that today there was a report in the newspaper. For months since June 2013, there has been a claim that a group of women had been harassed by a group of women at Kabatat Vapur Pier in İstanbul, where they had a small child covered in their heads during the Gezi events in İstanbul, and that the group had peed on that woman. Mr. Prime Minister explained it, said, "We'll explain it." He said, "We'll expose the video records." But it turned out to be something else. Today's news on that woman shows that there was no attack on the dock. Standing there, his wife comes in, takes her, walks away with her. That's the thing. It has been revealed that the Prime Minister, contrary to the fact that by leaning on the conservative values of society, like punishing our citizens who are going to travel events, has a policy to provoke the rest of society over them, just as the mosque in Dolmabahçe was drunk in the mosque in Valide Sultan Mosque. And the Muezzini of that mosque himself denied that slander. The Muezzin Muezini saved Turkey from a major polarization, stating that there was no drinking in that mosque, that the Prime Minister was not telling the truth. Now, while that's the truth here, I'm deeply offended by going to a Republican People's Party MP's press release and trying to say something else. I'm here to inform you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0016par0298	Thank you. Mustafa Balbay, MP of İzmir, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0017par0304	CHP MP Mustafa Balbay. Congressmans, first of all, it's Valentine's Day. I celebrate Valentine's Day with a wish that all lovers can be together, that they can embrace each other as they please, that there are no obstacles, that iron bars and concrete walls do not block the meeting of these bodies. [[Applause from CHP and BDP rows]] Mr. Hasip Kaplan, who spoke on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party, will also consider the issues of freedom of expression in Turkey, and I will share with you in a ten-minute period of time. Members of parliament are currently investigating over 50 journalists arrested and thousands of journalists in Turkey today, testifying in courts and prosecutors. Turkey has no freedom of expression, Turkey has freedom of expression. Many journalists, however, have the right to go to the prosecutor's office and testify, which is related to the charge against him. Of course, while I make this assessment, I would like to point out that not only journalists, but newspaper management and even newspaper ownership stand in the way of freedom of expression in Turkey. In the old days, governments, yes, traditionally used to fire officers, hire civil servants, appoint them, transfer them. Today in Turkey, MPs are appointed bosses. So if power in a country decides who is going to be the boss of newspapers, publishing organs, then there is no freedom of expression, and all freedoms in that country have been multiplied by zero. No matter how far you travel in the field of freedom, your distance will be multiplied by zero. An important part of the picture that happened in Turkey today, that is an important problem, lawmakers. At the moment, when international countries are ranked on media freedom, we have been steadily nervous for years. The main stability we can achieve is going back two or three rows each year, and we are now in the last 20 on freedom of press and freedom of expression. Perhaps if the law were to give in, the first letter of the word "basin" will be removed as well. While this is happening in the national media, I've seen on tours in Anatolia that there are also serious problems with local media, lawmakers. Of course, if Ankara does so, then the local rulers in Anatolia and Anatolia are in no position to continue doing so. Congressmans, of course, freedom of expression is a broad concept. To express yourself, that would be democratically in the squares, to describe yourself when you were accused in court. I would like to go one dose further and tell you that the people accused in Turkey have no freedom to defend themselves. Congressmans, 20 of the Ergenekon prisoners currently serving time in Silivri, were sentenced to two to twenty-four years in prison for what they said -- please listen carefully -- while only 20 of them were defending themselves. These laws are clear. There are law-enforcement MPs among you, who will know that a defendant can even lie when defending himself, because this is a self-defense reflex, but beyond that, they were given these sentences from a series of issues, as much as he insulted the court, and the people who supported them around those prisoners, when they tried to express themselves in front of the Assembly yesterday, they found traditionally charged water and TOMA languages. We also saw what freedom of expression meant in Turkey yesterday in front of the Assembly, members of parliament. Congressmans, another situation that I'd like to stress when I say freedom of expression is the same thing that's still on the agenda as the constraints of social media in front of Mr. President. Currently, Turkey is one of the top countries in the world in Internet use, social media use. It's a fact that nearly 40 million people are using the Internet, associated with social media, with statistics. Now, as it is not enough for you to limit written and visual media by various methods, you are also attempting to limit social media. I'd like to give you an example: in different seasons from the Balkans, cold weather comes, rain comes from Siberia, cold air comes from Siberia, it's like you're in this parliament, and you're taking the law out of the Balkans to prevent the coming of cold and rainy weather, and it's like your attempt to ban internet law experience from coming to Turkey from Siberia, it's like your attempt to restrict internet, social media right now. In that sense, I would like to have President Abdullah Gul take this law into consideration, without saying, "There are a few minor flaws." I would like to ask him to consider that this law is a ban on his soul, that there is a constraint on his soul. Right now, if this law is passed, members of lawmakers, when some of the keyword restrictions are on the agenda, it's potentially clear to the President that he loves and thinks of using as an activity element, even on the social media as a liability, even on that site, various restrictions, access bans can be raised, and from this area, especially when representatives of international institutions come to Turkey, the position of Mr. Prime Minister against journalists who want to ask questions has actually shown the status of freedom of expression in Turkey, which does not require long speech. At the beginning of my speech, the way I've highlighted it, lawmakers, the way I've been assigning patrons to newspapers, is yet another path. Currently, in Turkey, the press is being used to prevent people from expressing themselves. What do I mean? If a person wants to express himself, or if he wants to criticize a government study, the journalism, the attitude of certain media groups towards that person, is now causing that person to give up and not express his opinion about it again, members of lawmakers. This is something that is considered international censorship and is controversial in dictatorships. I stress: In Turkey, the press is being used as part of nearly 80 per cent of the media to prevent people from expressing themselves. Right now, I'd like to address the members of the ruling party, the independent press may need you one day. If you are talking about what needs to be done, how new legal regulations need to be made, how quickly you are attempting to make laws, then one day you may need independent broadcast organs when you do not have that power in your hands. Because if there's no freedom of the press, all other freedoms will be multiplied by zero. The situation currently facing the written and visual media in Turkey has had to be made clear by the top executives of these broadcast organs. Recently, they've been trying to explain to the newspapers what pressure they're under on television. In contrast, I would like to end my words by wishing that you would take a word from Ataturk. There may be problems stemming from freedom of the press, but Ataturk says the solution to problems stemming from freedom of the press is freedom of the press. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0018par0322	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Shamil Tayyar, Gaziantep MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0019par0325	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the BDP Group's research motion to investigate all the sizes of the obstacles to freedom of the press in Turkey and to determine the measures to be taken. I salute you all with love and respect. When I look at the motion, it's signed by Mr. Hasip Kaplan of BDP. He just walked in; thank God, he was kind. He went out after he was done talking. It's what we've always said, that the opposition actually gave these research proposals to fill the bag, which is actually very...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0327	Watch your mouth, watch your mouth!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0019par0328	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0329	You're a member of the press.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0019par0330	Respect! Respect!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0331	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0021par0332	Please, don't use those words.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0333	Mr. President, alert! Warning!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0022par0334	Respect, don't show off!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0335	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0022par0336	Don't show off, that's enough!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0337	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0022par0338	This Congress has seen enough of your show.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0339	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0022par0340	Please sit down! Please sit down!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0341	You're an asshole!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0023par0342	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0020par0343	Don't let him be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0023par0344	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0024par0345	You get word, you talk!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0025par0346	He's gonna ask your permission when he gets out?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0026par0347	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0024par0348	You get word, you talk.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0026par0349	Talk about what you want to talk about!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0024par0350	Take my word for it. Look, don't be rude, don't be immoral!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0026par0351	Don't insult me, don't be rude.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0024par0352	Sit the fuck down! Sit the fuck down! Sit down!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0027par0353	Speech!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0026par0354	You sit down!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0024par0355	You come here, you take your word and you talk.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0026par0356	Mr. President, why aren't you interfering?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit01spe0028par0357	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0028par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Bart's MP Yilmaz junc and 77 MPs in the 3rd place of the Law and the Justice Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. (x) 523 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to its 49th Union Charter, dated 21/1/2014.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0029par0020	Mr. President, sir, we've just held negotiations on the HSYK Law Proposal at the Justice Commission. After that, we held a meeting of regulations from the General Assembly to the 22nd Amendment. There is a general consensus in the public that this bill is contrary to the Constitution, Mr. President has made evaluations on this issue. During the European Union's talks to the European Union to explain this proposal, the European Union has had an assessment of this proposal, which undermines the principle of separation of forces, and after all, the government has interrupted the negotiations of this proposal. Now, what's changed that this offer is being renegotiated? What is the reason for this change? So, will the government continue its old position -- will this continue its position here, which is open to the Constitution, which destroys the separation of forces, or will the Constitution go to correct these regulations that are fixed? Now, information reflected in public opinion is that the government is considering a change in various issues, in various matters, but the government is really thinking about this change, whether the government is thinking about it or not, how it thinks, how it has a framework; we don't know about it, Parliament doesn't know about it. So, if you'd like, let's take a break from the negotiations. Mr. Secretary, inform the group's deputy presidents of the proposed changes. As opposition parties, let's organize our strategy, our work accordingly, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0030par0024	Mr. Hamzacebi, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0031par0025	Mr. President, I'd like to propose something.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0030par0026	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0031par0028	Now, the establishment of the HSYK was carried out on the basis of the amendment of the Constitution and the referendum. Therefore, we believe that a matter that has been modified and arranged by referendum should be held again because this has not been done in parliament, the Constitutional amendment has been put to a public vote and has been changed by the public vote. A matter replaced by a public vote must be replaced by a public vote. Otherwise, the law that has been changed here does not apply to the public vote.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0030par0029	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0032par0032	Mr. President, the bill on the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors has been very controversial, both in the commission and in public. However, arrests were made after that, and the President also had talks. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, have expressed that we are open to compromise among the parties on a constitutional arrangement between groups, that the main goal is to establish an independent and impartial judiciary and establish the conditions for fair trial, constitutional arrangements and constitutional arrangements, which will be made with the referendum in the future, is not right. We repeat these views today, and there is a conflict with the Constitution, the referendum. In this regard, we feel that it is against the Constitution to have such laws discussed in such a way.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0030par0033	Yes, thank you. Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0033par0036	Mr. President, this bill has been discussed by the Justice Commission. During the meeting, our friends from the opposition made allegations that it was contrary to the Constitution in their own opinion. He came to the General Assembly, and before the general debates were made in the initial phase of the law, they made their claims about violation of the Constitution, and the General Assembly continued to argue that it was not contrary to the Constitution. Article 21 has been discussed and has come to this point. Now, look, the final joke of Article 159 of the Constitution: the selection of Kurul members, the formation of apartments and the establishment of offices, the duties of the council and agencies, the number of meetings and decisions sufficient, the working procedure and the basis of the objections against the decisions and procedures of the apartments, and the duties of the General Secretary-General are regulated by law. In that sense, it is not contrary to the Constitution. Just as Mr. Hamzacebi said yesterday, if we delay the part about the fundamental law we discussed and leave it for the next day or another time, we leave the meeting of the HSYK proposal in the framework of that day.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0034par0039	Why?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0033par0040	So it's not that there are different hoards in our minds about this being contrary to the Constitution, it's because it has the authority to prepare the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There is no such thing as a violation of the Constitution. We need to resume negotiations on the law proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0035par0041	Yes, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0036par0044	Mr. President, the sentence, which will be considered in Article 159 of the Constitution, is the first sentence of its first joke. The HSYK is an institution founded on the principles of the independence of courts and the assurance of judgment, and the whole debate is coming out of here. The independence of the courts is being destroyed, the guarantee of justice is being destroyed. All these criticisms, Mr. Prime Minister, the government, Mr. Minister of Justice know very well, Parliament knows very well. If this proposal were in accordance with the Constitution, the government would continue negotiations without question, and you could have removed it on the basis of your parliamentary majority, but you did not continue, you found it serious about the Constitutional claim against the Constitution. I do not find it right to continue these talks, even though the claim of unconstitutionalism is so serious. But if there are changes the government is considering, please, Mr. President, let Parliament be informed of these matters. I don't find it right, sir, for the sake of Parliament's talks, to continue these talks without this information, without knowing the government's stance on the allegations of violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0035par0045	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0037par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0035par0047	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0037par0049	Lawmakers have made their own statements regarding the breach of the Constitution. From now on, if business exists, it's the Constitutional Court's will. We make this law, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey shall make the law he believes in according to the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court shall make the final decision on this matter. Just as Parliament can't replace the Supreme Court, that's the Constitutional Court we're talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0035par0050	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0038par0051	Mr. President, regarding the violation of the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0035par0052	Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0038par0054	Mr. Deputy President of the Justice and Development Party says: "The issue of violation of the Constitution has been discussed at the Justice Commission." There did not appear to be a stage of conversation, which claimed to be a complete discrepancy. There was a picture of the flying iPads, the floating bottles, the water cups. After that confusion, Mr. President of the Commission declared his own judgment, saying, "There is no violation to the Constitution." Therefore, the negotiations there were not completed. Second: Lawmakers from opposition parties, lawmakers from the Constitutional Commission have requested an extraordinary meeting to discuss this in the Constitutional Commission. The extraordinary meeting was postponed by the President of the Commission after the negotiations on the Justice Commission were completed and the report was filed. Therefore, there was no interview there either. Now, when we came to this part of the proposal, the Justice and Development Party found the allegations of violation of the Constitution serious, and postponed the talks. It's not just an offer against the Constitution, it's also a counter-proposal of the democratic parliamentary system, an offer that eliminates the principle of separation of forces, an offer that eliminates the judge's independence, neutrality, a proposal that delivers the judiciary entirely to the order of the Minister of Justice. How can an offer of HSYK be in accordance with the Constitution, which terminates all of its duties, except for 20 elected members? The constitutional claim to violation of the Constitution can be made within the framework of the first joke of Article 159, which may be within the scope of the independence of the courts, neutrality and judicial guarantees. The majority of the finger in the last joke of Article 159 will not make it in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0039par0057	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0038par0058	So, the group's vice presidents have come together to discuss the breach of the Constitution...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0040par0059	Mr. President, the members of the group are not authorized to appreciate the violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0038par0060	We think it might be helpful for him to make an evaluation.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0041par0061	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0042par0062	Come in, Mr. Tanal, a few sentences because we don't have that kind of procedure, and we don't have that kind of argument. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0041par0065	I won't be long. Now, Mr. President, thank you. In my hand, the basic concepts of Turkish Parliamentary Law, author Dr. Irfan Neziroğlu, page 56, paragraph five.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0043par0068	Mr. Tanal, say what you have to say.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0041par0069	I read the sentence, my dear President: either draft or proposals will be transferred to the Commission along with the report on the technicality of the law and compliance with the Constitution in the Office of the Turkish Parliament of Laws and Decisions. Look, about this offer...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0044par0070	What does the Civil Code say?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0041par0071	...a Mr. Commissioner at the General Directorate of the Laws said here: "Is there a preliminary report on this in accordance with the Constitution?" Well, now, in the same way, unless there's a preliminary review of the basic principles of parliamentary law here and a report on whether or not this is in accordance with the Constitution, my dear President, as stated by our Group Vice President, it violates both the Constitution and international contracts. It is also the 90th article of our Constitution: it is a superior norm that cannot be said that international contracts are contrary to the Constitution. And you're a lawyer, so you know that, Mr. President. I mean, the law shouldn't be wasted using those powers of yours. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0045par0073	Thank you. Yes, I'll make a promise to the Minister. Why did you withdraw, Mr. Secretary? Let's take your views while this law is being discussed.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0046par0076	Why did you shoot it? Yeah...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0047par0077	We didn't, okay? There is no retreat. That's how we took a break from yesterday, and that's how we took a break from it.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0046par0078	This is your farm, bring what you want and take what you don't want. Respect the Parliament. Okay, you have the right, but that's not gonna work, Mayor. Don't use this place like a farm! By God, you drive like a farm, Mayor! Even the farm has a routine!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0048par0080	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, a proposed law is not a government bill; it's one. Secondly, of course, the negotiations are a matter of the Council's nature. Third, we do not think that this proposal violates the 159th Article of the Constitution and other Articles of the Constitution. We believe that there is an offer in the Constitution that contains the issues left to the legal arrangement of Article 159, which includes appropriate regulations for the Constitution, such as other articles of the Constitution. I would like to present to you that stopping has nothing to do with the violation of the Constitution. This offer contains provisions that are in accordance with the Constitution. Some changes have been made in the proposal, and some changes may be made during the General Assembly talks. Proposal amendment proposals -- they just shared -- are, of course, shared with the group's vice presidents; there's nothing we can say about that. But once again, I respectfully present to the Supreme Assembly that this offer has nothing to do with the violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0049par0082	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0050par0083	Why did you pull it? It was asked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0048par0084	We didn't, it stopped, so there's nothing to film.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0050par0085	So, what's taking so long? It's been a month.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0051par0087	A proposal's violation of the Constitution can always be suggested. Suppose, in this proposal, the state of Turkey is a kingdom. Can we discuss it here? If it is clear that this is contrary to the Constitution, we can put it forward at any stage; this is the first issue. The second issue, the second thing I said -- and I'll say it again -- is that the government is considering what changes, sir -- we don't know these; let's take a break, let's see if there's really an arrangement in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0052par0089	Mr. Hamzacebi, haven't the motions been distributed? So in terms of what the government wants to do... the motions have been distributed, as far as I know, what changes will or will not be made, as far as I know.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0051par0090	Sir, can the Minister then make a statement saying that we will make a motion by correcting such regulations that are contrary to the Constitution? If he says so, let's continue. If it's not...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0052par0091	Mr. Hamzacebi, I've listened to the members of the group, thank you. I promised the Minister, and I listened to the Minister. The Civil Code provisions are clear, how a proposal or bill will be discussed... first discussed in the Commission, these issues, the allegations were raised, and then the meeting began at the General Assembly, and then came to Article 21. After the 21st article, I don't find it right to go back to the beginning and have these discussions. But the issue of violation of the Constitution can be suggested on all articles. There are already motions, which will be discussed when the amendment proposals come to the agenda. We'll have to continue the negotiations for him. But I'll take a 15-minute break, have the Minister brief you, just in terms of information. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents in, please. Mr. Secretary, you're welcome.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0053par0093	The motions have been distributed, sir, what changes will they be?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0054par0094	Let the Minister say it here, let's hear it here, let's hear it for everyone.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0055par0095	Let the opposition make a decision. Then let's go ahead and let the minister explain in chapter two.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0056par0096	But Mr. Secretary has no conditions here that are in accordance with the Civil Code of Information first. It's out of the question.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0055par0097	Mr. President, let's continue the discussion of the National Movement Party's proposal, and the Minister will explain in the second chapter speech.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit02spe0056par0098	Here you are, members of the group, vice presidents. I'm taking a break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0056par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. The 52nd Amendment, dated 24/1/2014, was adopted in the first chapter of the proposal, which was considered the main law under Article 91. Mr. Hamzacebi is demanding a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0057par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. By the way, Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Justice has briefed the groups on what amendments they're planning to make regarding the HSYK Law Proposal. This was a meeting that was entirely intended to listen to the Minister, otherwise it wasn't a negotiation for any matter. As far as we can see, the government is taking steps on some of the regulations we claim to be against the Constitution, but some of the amendments that are very clear to the Constitution are still being maintained as they are at the proposal. For example, the appointment of the chairman of the review board, the appointment of vice presidents, the review board, the end of the vice president's duties and some other regulations continue to violate the Constitution. I felt the need to give you this information. Again, Mr. Secretary, they've just given us information, we haven't had any negotiations. Thank you very much for the information he gave to the Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0058par0017	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0059par0020	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have just informed Mr. Justice Minister, the members of the group that there will be a provision of some healing motions regarding the law concerning the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which will be discussed with the MPs. Thank you for this information he gave to the Minister. In essence, however, the opinion of the National Party for Action at the point of violation of the Constitution of this law proposal continues. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0058par0022	Thank you. [[Continue]] There are three motions on Article 22 concerning the removal of matter from the text. Two motions from these proposals are motions that require that the two clauses be removed due to violation of the Constitution. I'll have them read the motions, and first I'll carry out the amendment proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the bidding text. Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Leader İdris Baluken İbrahim Binici Hasip Kaplan Secret Sakık I'm reading two motions against the Constitution: We propose and propose that the 22nd amendment of the proposed proposal be removed from the text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Fatma Nur Serter Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Mahmut Tanal Turgay Develi Ali Haydar Öner Aytun Çıray The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Mustafa Kalaycı Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Reşat Right Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0060par0049	We don't agree, my dear President, it's in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0058par0050	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0061par0051	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0058par0052	Mehmet Günal is the MP of Antalya who wants to speak on the motions.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0062par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, here is the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, but unfortunately we witness the murder of the law by law. Now, the Frederick Bastiat I've been telling you over and over again here had a saying about the corruption of the law, but I don't have time for that in five minutes. So if it smells like meat, it's like a salt story, unfortunately, we're at the point where the salt smells. Here, this arrangement, like other institutions of control, turns the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors into a general manager of judges and prosecutors, I think. Unfortunately, as we've previously been the ministry of the entire State Planning Agency and lost autonomy, there's no agency like the review boards, such as the Court, to maintain control. Indeed, this is the result of a war that the Prime Minister calls the statistical war, which resulted in the fight, which was fought by the sons and their allies, for the will and future. Look, there's nothing legal here, obviously it's a political decision. All our party groups say, in the Constitutional Commission, members of the Justice Commission say it's against the Constitution. To prevent a criminal investigation, such a law has, unfortunately, been changed into the use of the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to constantly change laws as a law state, neutralize legal laws, legal decisions, instead of using the right of the legislature to maintain justice. When we look here, there's nothing left of the Constitutional state, no legal guarantees, no independence of the courts, I'm afraid. Dear friends, the judge and the prosecutors here are being made officers with this clause, unfortunately, again, the same way. Just as these changes are constantly being made to be a ministry-based general director, the review board is being made into a normal civil servant, it's being stopped from being an inspector. So it's very clear that there's no good intentions here, like the others, that his appointees have already blocked the investigations. We can already see what the prosecutors involved in that investigation are going to do tomorrow, looking at what the prosecutors in the past are. Unfortunately, the spear is no longer fit in the sack and the judiciary has become political. Even if you try to block them with these laws, with certain regulations, there's no chance that the public will be exonerated. Look, there's always a lot of fuss, and we're talking. In my speech in the group proposal, I briefly said what happened in another debate. I'm really surprised when I read the details. In fact, we've all seen here where public banks have been infected, how the money transferred into these common pools has been obtained, indirectly, with loans and cash being poured into the pool in cash. Unfortunately, the general manager of the public bank, the vice president, the minister, the minister's advisor and many businessmen should not be covered up. We don't blame everyone in advance. There's a margin of innocence, but if it's covered up, there's a lot of judges, prosecutors who don't cover it up, if you go over the opposition that criticizes it, if it's muted, then there's no way to talk about democracy here. What's done here is the murder of the law by law. Mr. Secretary of State, who sent these laws here to be removed, even though he said it was an offer of the law, we all know that they're being drafted by the government and signed by our fellow lawmakers here. In the dictatorship of one man, it became a state of law, or rather the state of Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I don't want any of this... Mr. Secretary just briefed me, as in previous negotiations, but no withdrawals. I think this law needs to be pulled back as soon as possible and amended by recess. In this scope, the Constitution says that if it is done, it will be against the Constitution and the state of law will be slaughtered, and I offer my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0063par0059	Yes, thank you. Mr. Altay, would you like a word on the same motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0064par0061	Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0063par0062	Mahmut Tanal is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0063	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, this change in the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act... what does political power say? In accordance with the principle of separation of forces, when we look at Article 9 of our Constitution, the authority of justice is used by independent courts in the name of the Turkish Nation. While judicial authorities -- prosecutors and judges and courts -- hold this authority, as the Turkish nation voted for political power in the elections and gave it its mandate to rule -- the same way the Turkish nation uses its authority and this task for the Turkish nation. The legitimate source of the judiciary is the Turkish nation, which is the Constitution. Now, when we look at this frame, the executive authority is written in Article 8. The authority and the mandate of conduct are used by the President and the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It is said that the authority of the Constitution in Article 159 of the Article 159 of the Constitution can be arranged by law, but the principles of the legal state, the independence and neutrality of the judges, the neutrality and independence of the courts must not be marred. Now, when we looked at this frame, why did we need this arrangement? This arrangement would not have happened today if it hadn't been for a corruption and bribery operation involving ministers, politicians, contractors, businessmen on December 17, 2013. Political power is comfortable all over Turkey, and has seized everything for subcontractorship. What institutions do you have left that he can't get his hands on? Yes, political parties remain... but there are still really honest, honest judges and prosecutors, still honest, honest law enforcement. They disbanded law enforcement, didn't get the job done by law enforcement. What do you have to do when you don't? Sir, Republican prosecutors. He didn't have a D.A., he did it to the courts. So, what's the reason here? Sir, there's parallel structures in Turkey, and this parallel structure is unfortunately called parallel structures. Well, if it's a gang, Mr. Attorney General, if you've launched an investigation, give us the investigative number on this gang, this parallel structure. In fact, the government is in the same position they call this parallel structure. (HPP) The government is elected, the government is elected; they go on the main street, parallel building street. The two targets are the same, the two are the same, the two are the same. What's his target? As you can appreciate, we know all of you, and you all know us. What is your purpose? So you have one goal, one goal, from the national Nizam to the prosperity, from the Saadet to the AKP, which is now your last party.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0066par0067	They'll be mad at you, don't talk like that!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0068	Your only goal is to eliminate the secular regime, the basic principles of the republic.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0067par0070	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0071	What happened? That's your goal and that's the goal of your parallel structure. Two wrongs don't come out right; that's the purpose of you two, that's the goal of you two, that's the basic tools of the two. For him, an illegitimate government is now in power, an illegitimate government, because the government violates existing international contracts. Where there's an illegitimate government, people use any legitimate means to use their basic rights and freedoms. For him, our request from political power is this: look, Mr. Attorney General... but he's not here, and I don't understand why he left. [[CHP rows, behind you, behind you, the voices.]] Mr. Attorney General, there's a debate about you, and there's a debate about me. If you have the heart, if you trust your power, if you trust your judgment, if you trust your police, if you trust the power of your Parliament, if you are brought to Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't want to take advantage of immunity, I don't want to take advantage of discrimination, I don't want to take advantage of inequality, I want to be judged. In the same way, bring your statements to the House, including all ministers and Minister of Justice within the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0068par0078	Yes, thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0079	Bring our petitions to the House. Let's remove these immunitys, let's call the inequality an end. I mean, here, being a congressman, being a minister, being a minister, having a child, not having a concession holder.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0068par0080	Mr. Tanal, please!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0081	Turkey's Grand National Assembly is not the regime of concessions, it is not the place for concessions, it is not a place for crime. It's supposed to be in the state of law...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0068par0082	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0083	...everyone has to be judged equally in front of the law, to answer for it. Now, Mr. President, what should be the main thing is that members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must respect Turkey, and Turkey...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0069par0084	You're stealing our time, violating our rights. Your time is up.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0065par0085	Look, ma'am, there's corruption, there's bribery, there's theft, I'm screaming for you to hear us.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0069par0086	Time's up, time's up.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0070par0087	You're wasting our time, sit down, you're out of time!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0071par0088	Mr. Tanal, please!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0072par0089	Look, the worst injustice is stealing. We need to put an end to this theft. For him, my plea from you, all of you, are in charge, all of us are in charge. Look, what does this legal arrangement require? The purpose of this legal arrangement is to prevent bribery and corruption. If it hadn't been for bribery and corruption, there wouldn't have been any need. Congressmans, what would you say if such an arrangement had come before you became MPs?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0071par0091	Mr. Tanal, please!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0072par0092	You were going to say, the power is indeed wrong. Put your hand on your conscience.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit03spe0071par0093	Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit04spe0071par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place. I submit to your votes the two amendments against the 22nd Amendment: those who agree...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit04spe0073par0005	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit04spe0071par0006	I'm looking. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0071par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the two amendment proposals for violation of the Constitution on the 22nd article of Law Proposal No. 523. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0074par0011	The commission disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0071par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0075par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0071par0014	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0076par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are standing at the point of our HSYK-related party's agreement on the Constitution, and I want to say that all party groups must agree on this and make a constitutional change, which will solve the problem radically. Yes, by making arrangements in the HSYK, a temporary solution may be subject to the government. However, it is crucial that the four groups of parties reveal an all-rooted HSYK structure in front of us on the issue of independent and neutral judiciary. Why can't we agree on that? Was it more accurate before or later? This is truly worth discussing seriously. You have to try all the ways to reduce custody in court. Today, there will be other parties coming in tomorrow's election, other rulings, other oppositions, but the judiciary is a situation for all party groups, especially in an election period, to be considered as political superior. In fact, there is a discussion at times in parliament. There is a clause of the Constitution, my friends, which was made in Article 90, 2004. And before that, there were 17 amendments during the coalition government era. Among those 17 amendments was independent judgment. Friends, the right to a fair trial is passed. The changes made in the Constitution at the time may have been taken into account by the European Union's conjuncture and external dynamics and the Copenhagen Criterians. But those arrangements, I think, have changed since then, since 2001, with the latest referendum since today. This HSYK incident went public on September 12, 2010. Now, when we look from here, why should the Constitution of 90 be the criteria? The constitution states that international contracts are under law in internal law and cannot be imposed against the Constitution. Otherwise, in 2004, there were two parties here, the AK PARTY and the CHP, you took it out together, and there were no objections from any party. We, the Party of Peace and Democracy, are in favor of the implementation of Article 90 of the Constitution. Believe me, it's not the right way to enter into an argument such as "Is it contrary to the Law of Violence or not?" We want to change the coup law, the coup constitution, because it's too tight for us, we want to get rid of this shirt, but we failed, we worked hard on the settlement commission, but it hit the elections and the negotiations were cut off. Now, I ask you, are none of us, any of us, satisfied with the current justice process? But when you call it justice, it begins with the first capture, with the first detention. Starting with the initial process, the police, the preliminary investigation, the prosecution, the transition from investigation to prosecution, the court phase. Now, we're talking about an arrangement that concerns the court phase. So, before the proper manager, is the prep investigation being done properly, are the investigations being conducted properly? No, guys, we can't even talk about forensics. I mean, there's a lot of serious problems here. We can overcome these very serious problems by talking together. Believe me, if we argue here, we can make a motion, we can have a charter fight, but we'll lose an extra day, it won't change anything. Believe me, whether you bring it to the Supreme Court or not, it doesn't make much difference from here, so let me be honest with you. So what I want to say here is that we need to develop a culture of compromise. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0077par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0078par0027	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0077par0028	I will submit the motion to your votes. There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Acar, Mr. Pine, Mr. Young, Mr. Öztrak, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Develi, Mr. Danışoğlu, Mr. Onur, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Gök, Mr. Clean, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Tanal. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions on the 23rd article. The last two motions from these proposals are the motions that demand that the clause be issued due to the violation of the Constitution. I'll have them read the motions, and first I'll carry out the amendment proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the amendment of Section 23 of Law Proposal 523 in the following manner. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mihrimah Belma Koran Muzafer Baştopist Muhammad Bilal Macit The first joke (c) of Article 4 of Law 23-6087 has been changed in the following way. ) Adli and administrative judges and prosecutors to accept employment, appointment and transfer, temporary authorization, increase and division of the first class, decision-making of staff distribution, stay-in-work, decision-making, disciplinary fines, suspension of judges and prosecutors as subject to inspection, research, investigation and investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sırrıyya Leader İdris Baluken İbrahim Rider Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-three of the proposed law. Because of its unconstitutionality, we propose and propose that it be removed from the proposal text. Faruk Bal Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Reşat Right We propose and propose that the 23rd Amendment of the current bill be removed from the proposal text because it is unconstitutional. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Aytun Çıray Fatma Nur Serter Turgay Develi Ali Haydar Öner Mahmut Tanal Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last two motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0079par0071	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0077par0072	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0080par0073	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0077par0074	You don't agree. Anyone want a word on the motions?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0081par0076	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0077par0077	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0082par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received your word on the motion for Article 23 of the proposed law. I salute you all. In this motion, we demand that Article 23 be removed from the proposal text. Dear MPs, we all know that democracy is the best government human beings have ever found. Democracy is essential to the state of law. The essential of the legal state is the guarantee of justice and the independence of the courts. On September 12, 2010, you brought a new law proposal to change the structure of the HSYK, which was carried out along with the referendum. Why was there a need for a change in the HSYK Law? There's no need to hide it, precious MPs. On December 17th, there was an incident of corruption in this country called the corruption of the enemy. In this corruption, there are ministers among the allegations, ministers have children, some institutions and organizations have general managers, many businessmen, and the next 25 December operation is similar. The allegations in this operation include the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's son, the Prime Minister's relatives, many businessmen close to the Prime Minister. In the course of this, what did you put forward to prevent all corruption and unlawful conduct? You said: "There is a global attack on national will." To prevent a global attack on this national will, we need to declare them traitors, especially the prosecutors and police who conduct this operation and the investigation, by calling them representatives of foreign forces. You know, when you say it's the wife of innocence, you're uncomfortable when they talk about it, but the prosecutor of the Republic of Turkey tells the prosecutor, the police of the Republic of Turkey, those who operate this operation, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, see, dear friends, the Prime Minister shoots the traitor face of the foreign forces directly. Now I ask the Minister of Justice here: You took away those prosecutors that the Prime Minister called the traitor, whom the foreign forces called the tongs, and you appointed them to Bolu, and I tell you, sir, you assigned them to Kütahya, I tell you, sir, to Mardin. So why do you keep these traitors on their mission? So, then, the Prime Minister is giving them false information when he calls them traitors, Mr. Secretary? I mean, it could be an app like this, but when something's said, you say, "The purity of innocence." Now, dear friends, look, there are revolutions in Turkey, there are coups. It's been 80 revolutions, it's been what we call a postmodern coup on February 28th, but as of December 17th, I can't describe it, there's a new coup in the country. What do you mean by this blow, I'm leaving it to you, so what's the name of this coup? The government... the Constitution is being rescinded. Law enforcement doesn't follow the instructions of the judgment. What's the motive? The motive is for the Prime Minister to touch the ministers. Is that possible, dear friends? I'm telling you right now, I'm always saying, let's put our hands on our conscience. And if it is not forbidden to you, then there is no punishment for it. Mr. Prime Minister's son went to the deposition, today he's going to the press. Now, that's good, the Minister has done it in the Supreme Court. You took over the apartment, you moved all the prosecutors who ran that investigation, you cleaned up a nice area. After clearing the area, the Prime Minister's son testified. What he left today, and then the other will be released, and then you'll create this perception, that you've already built the media empire, that you've taken over all the media: there's been a global attack on us. This global attack, see, the prosecutors, the judges have made this decision. They will say. Now, Mr. Minister of Justice, if you could just clear the Prime Minister, please, where you've taken the prosecutors, appointed, conducted the investigation, and taken the new prosecutors, and cleared the ministers, what would happen if you could just clear them? First, you'll be cleared of your conscience. If you are not cleared of the public's conscience, the changes made there with judges and prosecutors will not be justified in this nation's conscience, but the Minister of Justice... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0083par0087	Thank you. The other speaker on the motion is the Flood Köse, Corum MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start my speech with a prayer. May Allah not make any of the ministers, their ministers, their children, and the MPs who had to defend the bureaucrats, who were carrying millions of dollars in money in their bedrooms, and a $700,000 watch gift from shady businessmen in their shoe boxes and in their arms. I feel sorry for you. Amen.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0085par0093	Amen!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0094	My dear friends, of course, silence shows nobility in essence, but unfortunately you can't shut up in an environment where there's so much corruption, so much corruption, so much corruption, so much bribery, so much shamelessness. Now, which father, which righteous, moral, conscientious father, or citizen, does that not hurt? The Home Secretary is talking to his son, and he says, "How much money is there?" He says, "How much is it? How much is it?"
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0085par0096	Well, well, well!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0097	These words have made their conscience bleed, my friends. Of course, they have a bad conscience, but there's worse, and there's worse. There is a spokesman for the ruling party; Huseyin Çelik, the legal profession, says: "These words of the minister speaking to his son do not produce evidence." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, my dear friends, this law came to the House two weeks ago, and the 21st article was discussed, and when it came to Article 22, it retreated. We assume that the AKP's group administration, the general board, the Prime Minister, realized that they had made a mistake, but they withdrew it, but it wasn't. A dictator -- unfortunately a dictator -- has brought this law back here today under the command and command of three judges as an excuse for their illness. My dear friends, we have a full-blown dictatorship ahead of us. There's a prime minister the whole world considers a dictator.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0086par0102	Don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0103	Everything... but this Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0087par0104	Come on, don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0105	Listen, listen...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0087par0106	Don't talk, you dirty man!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0107	This is the Prime Minister... I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0088par0108	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0109	This Prime Minister wants him to control everything.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0089par0110	Mr. President, may I have your attention?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0111	He doesn't want me to check everything!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0090par0112	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0084par0113	Does it blend in with the suit? He's blending in with your outfit.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0090par0114	What's it to you?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0091par0115	Congressmans, please... Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0092par0117	He wants to run Istanbul Municipality, Ankara Municipality. He says, "Let me adjust the press." He says, "Let me adjust the press." Go all the way to Libya, from Libya, from Tunisia, from Morocco! Let me adjust it to the press. It's a question of how many kids there are going to be. It doesn't?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0093par0118	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0092par0119	Is it getting in the way, brother? He's blending in.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0094par0120	You don't, you don't!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0092par0121	Do women give birth with a C-section or give birth normally?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0095par0122	You don't know how to talk!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0092par0123	Are you a gynecologist, brother? Why are you getting involved in this?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0096par0124	Are you drunk or drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0092par0125	The dictator will determine everything.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0096par0126	Are you drunk or drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0097par0127	Recep, don't be rude!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0096par0128	What kind of talk...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0098par0129	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0097par0130	What do you mean, you're drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0098par0131	Please, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0099par0132	Is he talking like a man in his right mind?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0100par0133	He's the attorney for the Ergenekon case.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0101par0134	What the hell is he talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0102par0135	Are you drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0100par0136	Brother, you're drunk. If there's a drunk, if there's a drunk, it's you. That's an insult! You're drunk!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0103par0137	What do you mean to the Prime Minister?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0104par0138	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0103par0139	What do you mean, drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0104par0141	Please sit down! It's a shame! Who's drunk? Who says he's drunk? What do you mean, drunk?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0105par0143	You're drunk, drunk! You're drunk! If there's a drunk, it's you!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit05spe0104par0145	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0104par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place. On the motion, Mr. Flood Köses had less than two minutes, but I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0106par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, despite you, the Republican People's Party will have the morals of this nation, democracy, honor, independence, unitary structure, secularism, human rights, and poor people. He's drunk from a distance. He's drunk. I'm returning things like alcohol to them. We can drink alcohol from time to time, but we take it from the sweat of our foreheads, with the sweat of our foreheads. We don't eat orphans like you, we don't keep dollars in our safes.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0107par0010	Speak decently, decently!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0106par0011	Now, he's the prosecutor of Ergenekon's case, the prosecutor of Ergenekon's case... the vault of the Ergenekon case, the funeral of Kuddusi Okkır. Look at the hypocrisy, look at the lies! If he instructs the police to shoot him, he will decide everything himself, or he will give the police the instruction to shoot him. The Council and the Council of Ministers are already looking you in the eye, looking you in the eye, asking for a judgment that understands what you're saying. Do you remember, he went to America, Prime Minister, where they gave him a book? Do You Recall The Name of The Book? Remember the Dictator's Psychology? The international community has registered the dictatorship. Now, the dictator's psychology has a few issues. One, the dictator gets scared. He's scared, this law is coming because he's scared. He knows there's an emperor who protects everyone, protects what's under him, and prevents access to him. He said, "You know, there's a building that wants to keep the prosecution from getting to him. The dictators are scared. The dictator is afraid, so he's bringing in the law today. Now, what makes you think the dictator is afraid? You brought a package under the name democracy package, which is now passed through the Justice Commission, but there's nothing in it for justice, nothing for human rights. What? The property has protection, the property has protection, the drinking money, the public, the poor people's money.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0108par0013	Where? Where?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0106par0014	Yeah, I was there, I got it, I got it! Now, friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...what you're afraid of will happen to you. March 30th is very close. Look, 78 per cent of the voter in Turkey believes ministers are corrupt and corrupt through their children. 78%! The EC PARTY also believes 50% of the AKP voter. Mr. Köse, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0109par0019	Mr. President, in his speech on the stand just before the hearing, Mr. President, the AK PARTI Group members, our President, our Group President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0110par0020	Wait a second...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0106par0021	March 30th is very close. They'll all be accounted for on March 30th. But first of all, you will answer in front of this nation's honest, moral judges!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0109par0022	Mr. President, listen to me, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0110par0023	Let me hear it, Mr. Elitaş, Mr. Köse is standing.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0109par0024	If you promise me, I'll go there, he'll move.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0110par0025	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0109par0026	Mr. President, the speaker is in session before you close the session...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0111par0028	Flood, stay there, keep going. Dear friends, in Ergenekon cases...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0030	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0113par0031	My dear friends, look...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0032	Mr. Köse, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0033	You're welcome! How can you vote when the preacher's on the stand?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0034	Of course I will, Mr. Altay! What's with the hand gesture!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0035	Mr. President, we've been talking there longer than that.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0036	I gave him the proper respect, and I let him.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0037	Mr. President, there have been people talking there for longer than our friend.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0038	No, sir, no one's been talking there much longer, Mr. Altay! You're the vice president of the group, look, I gave the proper warning!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0039	But what a shame! You can't vote with a preacher on the stand. We can't accept this, it won't happen!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0040	Mr. Tanal did the same thing before taking a break, please!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0115par0041	The preacher can't be disrespectful there. Respect for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey! It's against the Civil Code! There's time, there's time, there's time!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0042	What disrespect! He said what he thought. What kind of a thing is that, Mayor? There's no voting when the preacher's on the stand. It's the ultimate insult to a congressman. It's so wrong, it's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0043	I did, but...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0115par0044	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0114par0045	Mr. President, did he or did he not stay on the stand longer than this?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit06spe0112par0046	Mr. Altay, you are the vice president of the group. You need to warn the MPs. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0112par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the ninth session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place. I'm having the other motion read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the framework of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0116par0009	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0112par0010	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0117par0011	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0118par0012	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0112par0013	One moment, Mr. Tanal, I'm going to file a motion, please. It is recommended that the ruling on the judicial duties of judges, except for the issues relating to the use of the council's jurisdiction, be removed from the scope of the judicial duties of prosecutors in matters relating to their legal duties, except for the ability to evaluate evidence and characterise crime. According to the Constitution, the Ministry has no authority to make a general decision on judicial tasks, except for the prosecutors' ability to assess and characterise the charge of administrative duty alone. The regulation constitutes a violation of the Constitution, as well as the implementation of the regulation will increase the Minister of Justice's duty and authority and ensure the independence of the judiciary. The proposed proposal aims to address the breach of the Constitution. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the amendment of Section 23 of Law Proposal 523 in the following manner. Mustafa Elitaş (Istanbul) and his friends The first joke (c) of Article 4 of Law 23-6087 has been changed in the following way. ) Adli and administrative judges and prosecutors to accept employment, appointment and transfer, temporary authorization, increase and division of the first class, decision-making of staff distribution, stay-in-work, decision-making, disciplinary fines, suspension of judges and prosecutors as subject to inspection, research, investigation and investigation. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0119par0025	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0112par0026	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0120par0027	We agree.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0112par0028	Mustafa Elitaş, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0030	Mr. President, we have a motion to make a amendment to Article 23 of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when we use this bench, we always say that we don't allow anyone to say anything about our personalities, our leaders, our leaders, our leaders, our leaders.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0122par0032	Don't we? What do you mean?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0033	If we don't say the same thing about the leader of the main opposition party, as we don't say about the heads of other political parties, and we block our friends, we expect the main opposition party's deputy leader to act the same way.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0123par0034	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0035	Mr. President, we're going through a tense environment. In this tense atmosphere, we're ready for all criticism, we're ready for anything, but we're saying, "Whosoever is ungrateful to a single penny of this nation, God damn it!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0124par0037	God damn those who steal it and those who cover it!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0038	And whosoever fabricateth, and he hath not been judged, let him be cursed if he inventeth.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0124par0040	Damn the prosecutors and judges who put pressure on them!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0041	You're going to stand up, you're going to say the wife of innocence, you're going to defend a man who's had thirty-five years of abuse here, but you're going to say, "How do you do what you're told about him because he's not in the Supreme Court yet?"
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0124par0043	Damn those who cover up corruption!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0044	If there's anything to do with a case that hasn't been created, damn it, let him go to hell and pay for it, but God damn whoever's fabricating it!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0124par0045	Amen! And God damn the slanderer. And damn the judge!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0046	God damn whoever's violating innocence!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0125par0047	Damn those who slander soldiers and prosecutors!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0048	Now, look, Mr. President, the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0126par0050	Damn those who applaud thieves!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0127par0051	God damn the Thieves!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0052	Mr. President, may I have your attention?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0128par0053	Come on, you warn me, come on, you warn me.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0129par0054	I'm warning you, sir, how many times have I warned you? Look, this is a warning, Mr. Elitaş, this is a warning.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0056	The seat of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is to speak. Opposition parties are also obliged to listen to their ruling party spokesman.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0128par0057	The Prime Minister is angry at those who curse.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0058	You have to listen to us just as we listen to you. But that's not what the Civil Code says, sir, it's against the Constitution, sir, it's against the Article of the Civil Code. Those who say, sir, do not have the right to occupy the bench.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0130par0059	God damn them, too!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0060	Mr. President, we don't allow anyone to occupy the bench here.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0131par0061	Are you threatening me?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0062	This is where the voice of democracy comes out.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0131par0063	That's why you slaughtered democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0064	We won't allow anyone to lower the voice of democracy by the invasion of the bench, to turn down the voice of the MP, but the deputy president of the group will say, "You've allowed others to do so. You can't be wrongly defended.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0131par0065	We're not going to take a democracy lesson from those who murdered democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0066	The congressman who got up here will fit in. Otherwise, you will not take the Civil Code into your hands and walk as Mr. President according to this Article of the Civil Code. Yeah, you're going to have the Civil Code enforced here... on the bench, the speaker of the National Party of Action just said a word, and when it's finished, I thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0132par0067	Are you giving instructions? Are you giving instructions?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0068	Just now, before taking a break, my sentence is complete, time is over, I said thank you. I've taken my place. If we don't follow these rules, if we don't follow them, there will be a lack of rules. As a result of this irregularity, whoever defies the law will endure it.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0133par0070	You violated the Constitution once, what rule?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0071	I'm clear and clear that this is the only place in parliament where the MP will speak, but no one can stop the Parliament from working by occupying, interrupting, interrupting, and provoking lawmakers here.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0134par0072	For God's sake...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0135par0073	You're the one who talks the most.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0074	We are determined to pass this law, we will, and no one will be able to stop it.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0135par0076	Are you the one who broke Ali's head?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0077	You argue, you argue, you improve your speech; we take things seriously, we accept your motions, we change them.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0136par0078	You didn't take it seriously.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0079	But you can't expect us to accept the motions that you've replaced with a sentence, a letter, a word that has nothing to do with it. Please accept one of our motions... for God's sake, Congressman, what does it have to do with the amendment to that motion? Nothing.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0137par0081	Nobody said that, you're making it up. We expect nothing from you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0082	But it's coming, and it's ours... whether we do it or not, it doesn't matter.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0138par0083	You didn't.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0084	Mr. President, I'm calling on the AK PARTY Group: we will not be provoked; we will be patient with whoever comes out here, no matter what they say, but we will never give an opportunity to insult, to invade the bench, to interrupt the MP, to finish democracy. They call him the Dictator. Look in the mirror, look in the past, you'll see the dictator.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0138par0086	You're ending democracy!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0121par0087	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0139par0089	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0140par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0139par0091	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0140par0092	Mr. Group Vice President has accused us of occupying, and he has threatened us... and I want to answer, Mr. President, so I don't need to count one by one here, so if this isn't going to be answered...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0139par0093	Sir, you're going to say what you want to say, I don't have to count it. It's not. Mr. Altay, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0140par0097	Mr. Elitaş, you're not the boss, if there's any order in this Parliament... The people responsible for this work are determined in this Civil Code. There'll be a full-scale incursion of the bench, protecting this bench...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0141par0099	Allah! Allah!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0142par0100	Where's it written?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0143par0101	What substance?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0144par0102	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0143par0103	What substance? What substance?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0104	...the administration of the President of Parliament... Mr. President, can you stop their harassment?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0146par0106	I'm telling you, Mr. Altay, what should I do?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0107	Protecting this bench is the job of the chiefs, Mr. Elitaş, not your business. You provoked this General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0147par0108	No way.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0148par0109	He's doing a show, a show.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0110	Yes, you did; we'll see, we'll see.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0149par0111	Mr. Altay, this is not true, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0112	I mean, I can't accept it, Mr. President: we're more crowded, we'll beat you up.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0150par0114	Don't be afraid. We don't do anything.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0115	Yeah. This is not your father's bench, it's the people's stand. This nation sent us here, and we came here to serve under this Constitution, and we took an oath when we began our work, and we swore to protect the state of law. This is an offer of law enforcement to end the principle of separation.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0150par0116	We deal with everything through democracy.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0151par0117	What makes you say that?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0145par0118	Believe me when this comes out, lawmakers, there is no need for this Parliament.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0150par0119	Are you the Supreme Court?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0152par0120	There's the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0153par0121	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0154par0122	That means Parliament's out of commission.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0155par0123	Give me an example.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0154par0124	You can't expect us to stand by. Of course we follow the rules, the rules, but because of your earlier threat, I'll be standing on this bench for ten minutes, so come down here and take it down.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0156par0126	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0157par0127	Mr. President, would you vote on the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0156par0128	I'd like to invite the executives on duty, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0157par0129	Mr. President, would you vote on the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0156par0135	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0158par0137	Is Elitaş running the House, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0156par0138	Those who do not accept... the matter is accepted.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0158par0140	Hello, is the Capitol line working? You mean there's such a thing as...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0159par0141	Did they say hello Sadik?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0156par0142	Please, please... Mr. Günal, is this happening to you? Mr. Directors...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0160par0145	Mr. President, in violation of an MP's Civil Code, the invasion of the bench should not interfere with the talks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0161par0146	You asked for it, you!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0162par0147	He threatened the coven...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0163par0148	Mr. Altay, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0162par0149	The group has made a clear threat to the Vice President's Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit07spe0163par0150	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0163par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the tenth session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0164par0003	Did I just say that to you?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0165par0004	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0163par0005	We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 523. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0165par0007	You're my father's age!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0166par0008	Is a man of your father's age less than my dick? Dirty!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0165par0009	You're immoral!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0166par0010	Shameless bastard! It's called Kasympaşa. Look at that!
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0167par0011	There are four motions on Article 24; two are amendments to the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0168par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0167par0013	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0169par0014	You didn't tell him?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0170par0015	I didn't say that. Why are you dragging it out?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0169par0016	Why are you dragging it out? He swears! If there's a malfunction, he'll do it himself.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0171par0017	Mr. Ören, please take your seat.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0170par0018	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0169par0019	Who didn't say that? Too bad you're not ashamed to say it.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0172par0020	Well, he won't swear, what blasphemy?
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0169par0021	Didn't he? He didn't. Say it, and you lie to him. I'm the head of the Kabbile. I said. Did you or did you not say Kasympaşa.
tbmm-2014-02-14sit08spe0173par0022	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
