tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. I wish all my fellow congressmen good work. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are two motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to find the historical value the city of Bitlis deserves, to get rid of a large town appearance, to determine historical artifacts and historical Bitlis homes, to build maintenance repairs, to prevent illegal excavations, to destroy and repair dangerous sites, to remove and protect the entire historical Bitlis homes, to protect our historical artifacts, and not leave our historical artifacts in their fates, we offer the Constitutional College's 98th, the 104th, the 104th, and the 105th Articles that have been destroyed, and the Parliament's proposals. [[Bitlis]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] Our Bitlis is one of Turkey's oldest settlements, a city dating back from 5,000 BC to 7,000 BC, home to various cultures, many civilizations and civilizations throughout history. Bitlis is one of Turkey's original and numbered cities, historically, geographically, culturally and religiously, that attracts attention with its original architecture. In the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, Bitlis became the centre of culture and art in the region. Its structures, such as madrasa, mosque, ash, inn, baths, stand today as evidence of that bright period in the past of the province. Bytylis, who reeks of stone, soil, air, and all its glory, has been destroyed, many historical artifacts destroyed, many lost their originality. When 20 or 30 years have been looked back and compared with today, there is not a large amount of concrete construction in Bitlis. In Turkey, historical Bitlis homes, which have not been found in another geographical area, were represented by thousands in previous years. Since 1980, 234 civil architecture examples have been registered and protected, and 36 registered homes have been severely damaged by the Ministry of Culture for the cause of earthquakes and climate conditions. However, 234 have been protected since 1980, while other historical sites have been abandoned to their destiny. Studies have failed to compensate for the value they deserve in bringing their values to the surface. Due to the rapid migration and changing lifestyles of the years, many families have been evacuated to historical homes where they live and moved to the western metropolitan areas, leaving the city or in the heating house. The physical impact of heavy winter conditions, the negative economic conditions of those with historical sites, the destruction of historical sites due to search for treasure, illegal excavations and illegal structures, the fact that the relevant institutions are not allowed to work and work in many places, particularly in Bitlis, downtown, on the streets of the mall, where people are often on footways, and that historical structures on the footpaths are dangerous without restoration, and that the city center of Bitlis is extremely unsupervative and alarming. Although 234 civil architecture examples have been registered, Bitlis, with much more historical architecture, has not been maintained by many homes showing civilian architecture, but is not allowed to intervene and restore their historical homes. However, the destruction of a historical structure on the road in the previous years puts the lives of the inhabitants of the region at risk, although only one wall remains and many others are devastated and devastated. As he is protected, no work can be done, restoration, repair or destruction, and his historical homes will be destroyed. In order to find the historical value the city of Bitlis deserves, to get rid of a large town appearance, to determine historical artifacts and historical Bitlis homes, to establish maintenance repairs, to prevent illegal excavations, to destroy or repair dangerous sites, to establish and protect the completely destroyed historical Bitlis houses, to provide for our historical artifacts, and not to abandon our historical monuments, we propose the Constitution's 98th, Internal Chart, 104th and 105th Articles, and to ensure that they can be established. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After two major earthquakes occurred on October 23, 2011 and November 9, 2011, it was determined that the homes and animal shelters were not removed and were not built, as the ruins were detected in central villages. To investigate these issues, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] On October 23, 2011 and November 9, 2011, seven months have passed since the death of 646 citizens, while thousands of our citizens have been injured and severely damaged. Immediately after the earthquake, the problems with completing the needs of the citizens seem to continue. Visits to nine villages (Alaköy, Mollakamam, Agartı, Dağönu, Stewier, Ermis, Gedibulak, Beyrek, and Hidır) in central Van on 19 May 2012 have been observed that earthquakes have suffered painfully. At the beginning of the complaints by village chiefs and citizens, the ruins were still unresolved, their needs were not met, such as housing, housing, school, mosque, and healthcare centers, the construction of animal shelters, and none of the promises made about it had been fulfilled seven months after the earthquake. Citizens live among the debris they have lost their relatives, the problem of housing that has been resolved with containers has become more stressful with the heat of the weather, and serious psychological problems have arisen in the village population, especially with children and women from all of this. In Alaköy, of the population of 1,050, nine of our citizens lost their lives, 127 houses and buildings were destroyed. The wrecks are still in place, and 127 homes that were promised to be built after the earthquake have not yet been launched. In the village of Dağönu (Ereni) of 450 people, 15 of our citizens died under debris and 182 houses were destroyed. In this village, the ruins have not been removed and the construction of the promised homes has not been started. In the village of Gedibulak (Canik), a population of 1,350 and 250 digits, nine of our citizens lost their lives, 250 houses and 150 stables were destroyed. As the reliefs after the earthquake have stopped, the government's commitments to the construction of homes and stables are among the complaints of residents who still haven't been fulfilled. According to 84 digits Özkaymak village chief, 56 dwellings have been reported, but no work has been launched yet. In the villages of Ayanis, Mollakam, Mollakam, Hidır, and Ermiz, the village chiefs and citizens face similar challenges. The ruins have not been removed, the construction of the houses and stables promised to be built. With the heat of the air in the region, unlifted debris and containers that many people have had to stay together will cause serious health problems to arise. In these villages, where infrastructure needs are almost never met, there are challenges for the villagers who have lost their relatives, their homes, and their animals, who have lost their basic livelihood, and other operations. These peasants have lost a significant portion of their livelihood, and 70 thousand liras are demanded for houses built by TOKI and 15,000 lira for stables. It is almost forgotten that the villagers who are suffering from severe hardship are victims of earthquakes. These outrageous amounts are impossible to pay by peasants. In these villages, where the debris has not been removed, where the housing problem has not been resolved, there has been an earthquake trauma, a shortage of life and livelihood, a fear of the future, causing serious psychological problems among the village residents. In these villages, where the most basic needs are not met, sociopsychological and health support is also urgently needed. We think a research commission should be established to determine the problems in the villages after the two major earthquakes in Van and to determine why the work was so delayed. It's been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0002par0122	I'd like to speak according to the Civil Code, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0001par0123	Mr. Ozturk, what do you want to talk about according to 58?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0002par0124	It's due to an unofficial statement during yesterday's events.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0001par0125	You want to correct your statement?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0002par0126	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0001par0127	You want to correct your false statement to the report.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0002par0128	Yeah, I want it back.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0001par0129	Now, he says we have to do this at the beginning of the presentations, the Laws and Decisions, but since we're going to take the correction of the statement, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0002par0132	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs under the Civil Code 58. I salute you all. In the middle of the General Assembly last night, and during the most unbecoming and bad events of our great nation, a word has come out of my mouth, which is totally inappropriate because of the tensions and provocations of the environment, without targeting any party or any of my fellow members of our own Group as we speak to our own Deputy Director. This statement does not suit me, it is a promise not to be made under the roof of the High Assembly, but it is not meant to insult or insult a certain party group or a certain member of parliament. It's an informal promise when we're talking to our own Group President. I take that word back, by my respect to myself and the House, and I apologize to the High Assembly and to our nation, for the fact that I've taken a word that should not be said under the roof of the House, which should not be spoken, which should not be spoken, even if it's an informality. I submit this statement to the attention of the High Council under the terms of the Civil Code 58. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0003par0136	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. You've done an exemplary deed, and I'd like to thank you again. Congressmans, there's a motion to open a general discussion, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We present on behalf of the Milliyetian Action Group the opening of collective contract talks and results of the transition from the public employees' rights from the collective negotiation process to the collective contract process, in order to assess issues stemming from the processing of collective contract processes, as part of the economic crisis warnings proposed to public employees as a reason for a non-expect proposal. May 23, 2012 Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President The right of public employees to hold a collective meeting with the administration in order to determine their rights to equity is determined as the right to collective agreement. Although the constitutional amendment adopted at the September 12, 2010 referendum was granted the right to a collective contract for public employees, the legislation on collective agreements was delayed, and public employees continued to work without the right to self-employment in 2012. As a result of the collective contract talks, an offer was made which did not meet the request of public employees, and ended in disagreement, and the matter was referred to the Public Officers Referee Board. Despite the government's statement that the Turkish economy is very good, it has explained the low increase given to public employees by saying, "We will become Greek." In this case, the economic crisis prospects and warnings offered as a basis for the increase in the result of the collective agreement. Public employees acted as a warning on 23 May 2012 in response to the consequences of this collective meeting, which did not comply with expectations or economic facts. Public employees are reactive. Public Servants are convinced that the formation of the Referee Board will decide on the direction of governance, as it does not have objective results. Taking into account the public employees' reaction, a general negotiation motion was made to be held at the TBM for the implementation of collective negotiation processes and for the initial implementation of collective contract processes and for the assessment of the size of economic crisis warnings proposed as a reason for the outcome of a non-expect proposal for public work. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motion will take its place on the agenda, and the preliminary discussion on whether or not to open the general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members today. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The investigation into corruption, bribery, money laundering, which was carried out on December 17, 2013 in the Co-ordination of İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Attorney General's Office, has been brought to public. Some ministers and relatives, bureaucrats, and businessmen who served in the 61st government who have been asked to resign due to allegations of bribery and corruption are suspected in this investigation and related investigations. On the other hand, some of the talks alleged to belong to Prime Minister Erdogan have strengthened claims that the allegations of bribery and corruption are much more dimensional and comprehensive. In order for the facts to come out in this process, the judicial process must be carried out within the rules set by the law, without pressure, without threat, or direction, but unfortunately, operational and legal intervention has been made clear to the investigation process and to those in the process. Clearly, these interventions do not conform to the rule of law and rule of law. On December 25, 2013, Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ imposed pressure on members of the judicial law and judiciary who have been conducting the investigation since the beginning of the investigation, allowing them to be removed from their duties; abusing his influence on the members of the judicial law and the judiciary who were appointed to replace those who were removed from their duties; affecting the judicial authorities with a purpose to get results in favour of some suspects; and affecting the four ministers of the four alleged crimes, C. Since he has long been subject to review of the proceedings, which have been introduced by prosecutors not to meet the requirements, and has been able to send the suspects back to cloud evidence, we propose and supply and propose on behalf of the Millitarian Action Group that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98 and 99, under Article 106 of the Constitution and under Articles 106 of the TBMM Agency. On 17 December 2013, an investigation into crimes such as corruption, bribery, money laundering was launched in the co-ordination of İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Attorney General's Office. The investigation, including some ministers and relatives and some other executives and businessmen serving in the 61st government, has been reflected in media organs. The AKP government has launched a comprehensive campaign to neutralize and eliminate this corruption investigation. The Interior Minister, who was investigating him, dismissed the Istanbul Police Commissioner and the chief of law enforcement officers who served in this investigation the same day, and, together with the Minister of Justice, changed the Law of the Judiciary, so that he could access the evidence and the list of suspects that had been obtained in this investigation. Bekir Bozdağ, who began his post on 25 December 2013, also joined as Minister of Justice. Law enforcement and C. In the first HSYK meeting held on 15/1/2014, judges and prosecutors' first HSYK meeting were created with artificial hostility created by judges and prosecutors in the investigation; the first HSYK meeting held on 15/1/2014. In violation of the law and the balance of two members of his apartment, Two members who were suspended from the agency, who could be influenced by politics, During his 16/1/2014 meeting with the agency, the positions of judges and prosecutors serving in corruption investigations, including Izmir and Adana prosecutors, who were instructed to stop corruption investigations on 21/1/2014, have been changed. In addition to all of this, C is directly involved in preventing investigations, allowing evidence to be uncovered, blacked out, and escaped by suspects. The chief prosecutors, governors, police chiefs were given instructions, and the transcripts of the transcripts and audio recordings of them were released to the public. Adana and İzmir prosecutors have refused to accept the Minister of Justice's interference in the judiciary and have issued a statement against him. Both state prosecutors have been relieved of their position. The proceedings launched against 4 ministers in the corruption and bribery investigation launched on December 17, 2013 were sent to the Ministry of Justice by authorities and prosecutors of the republic who conducted the investigation to ensure that the legal requirements of the four ministers can be carried out. According to his statement to the press, the Minister of Justice had these proceedings examined for 45 days and, on the other hand, returned to the prosecutors on the basis of a general order of the Ministry of Justice. It's been presented to your knowledge. I'd like to inform you that the meeting on whether or not your client will be taken into consideration will be decided later by the Council of Counsellors for the day. Now, there are lawmakers entering the system, and I can't promise them that we're on the agenda. However, the group's vice presidents have demands of words, in order to promise only to the members of the group. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0004par0180	Thank you. Mr. President, today is the anniversary of February 28th. Our nation has always been the victim of an intervention in democracy, but instead of all these interventions, our nation and nation's will and democracy have always come out of these processes with great experience and power. I believe the Turkish Parliament will always take a stand for the sovereignty of the nation in the face of these interventions to our democracy as a place where democracy and national will prevail. In this process, on the anniversary of February 28th, I'd like to express my belief that anti-corruption, polarization, judicial sieges, and the mentions of the Alo Fatih will be mixed with the darkness of history again. In this frame, I expressed it yesterday, I have a request from the government, sir. There are significant developments in Ukraine. In Crimea, unfortunately, an airport was occupied -- it had previously been occupied by Parliament and the Prime Ministership -- so a Turkish plane returned. There are Crimean Tatars there, a significant, frankly, in the interest of Turkey. In this regard, I request that the government inform the Grand National Assembly of what happened in Ukraine about what happened in Crimea. Our planes are returning. There, the Crimean Tatars, the Crimean autonomous structure, are concerned that the region will move away from democracy, away from democracy. Some information is coming about the invasion of Russia. In that respect, sir, I urge the government to inform Parliament immediately in this framework, to make an attempt on your presidency in this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0005par0185	Thank you. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0006par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. February 28, 1997 is the 17th anniversary of the postmodern coup. As the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I would like to say that on the anniversary of February 28th, we have rejected coups, regulations, operations and all antidemocratic interventions. We have since opposed the September 12th military coup, the March 2nd, 1994 DEP coup, the February 28th postmodern coup, the April 27th e-signation, the coup aimed at the voters on April 14, 2009, and the closure of the political party. Either way, we've sided with democracy, we've fought and we're fighting. Although the threat of violence has been lifted, thousands of politicians, journalists, lawyers are arrested in prison today. This is a blow to democratic politics. The way to deal with these coups is to purge all of the coup institutions, especially the National Security Council, to judge the coupgers and step in the area of democratisation, he says, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0007par0191	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0008par0193	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, today is February 28th of the 17th anniversary of the intervention in our democracy, which has taken place in the history of democracy as a postmodern coup. Democracys, dear friends, feed on crises and thrive on their crises. Any external intervention in democracy would interfere with democracy and the development of society. It is the duty of every member of parliament to protect democracy, to protect the presence of the Parliament, its dignity, and to use its right of sovereignty by its representatives and its will. It is the main consequence of being a member of parliament, using the power of representation, to protect this will representation from any interference. In every problem, to defend the non-democracy routes, to open a debate of legitimacy, this Parliament must close, it must not work. In the democratic system, the reyin of millions who vote for every political party is an effort to open the door to the new February 28th by inviting people to the street and looking for other ways. Are we going to sacrifice democracy to the pressures of the dirty focal points that terrorize the dark corners, tapes, wiretaps, blackmails, or do we defend democratic legitimate politics; do we solve our problems on the basis of the law; do we have parliament, social sovereignty; every congressman has to decide that. On May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, February 28th, history did not forgive those who defended and supported non-democracy routes. We, the AK PARTY Group, today (February 28th) say that we will take over the democratic, secular, social, legal state, which has found its definition in the Constitution. We will never cast a shadow on the moon of the House, on its dignity. We will fight to the end with any interference in democracy. We will never challenge those who think they're going to scare this nation, who want to create a legitimate crisis using the cover of corruption and design all politics. This is a psychological action; they did it to the late Menderes, to Ozal, to Erbakan, the man who was attacked on February 28, to Erbakan. The national and domestic elements of this country are aware of what's going on. We will not allow any further interference in this House, even if it means our lives. We salute the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0009par0201	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0010par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as Republican People's Party on the anniversary of February 28th, we reject any direct or indirect military intervention in democracy. Democracy is an indispensable ideal of the Republic of Turkey, of our nation, and as long as there is this republic, democracy will live on in this land forever. I don't think it's right to reject military intervention in democracy, when all civil administrations are democrats, when they rely solely on the voter support that is behind them, to describe themselves as democcrats. The first and most important condition of legitimacy is public support behind a political power, a political system, a political party. Yes, this element in the definition of classical legitimacy is the indisputable, indisputable element of all democracies today. However, based on public support, any antidemocratic practice, any antidemocratic, oppressive law based on the majority of parliament, destroying the principle of separation of forces, making the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which should be independent, making laws in this way, which are called ▪democratisation, is in no way incompatible with democratic laws filled with reforms against democracy, freedom. We have experienced the reality of a Silivri courts in Turkey, and these Silivri courts have been in the period of a political government that considers the 50 per cent public support behind its back a sufficient requirement for legitimacy, and in these courts the law has been put under way. People's right to defend themselves, innocence is violated, and the people's masculinities are condemned without rest. In a system where they were convicted, an interesting coincidence is that, today, as the first application of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act, the Justice Minister, Judges and Prosecutors have appointed the staff of the High Council to be discharged, and while these appointments have been made, again, the minister's children and a foreign national were released under the investigation of bribery and corruption in Istanbul. I don't think any of this is a coincidence. The provisions made by a government who thinks it has control of the judiciary to realize that the judiciary is not in control of its own control are as much interference and harm as military intervention in democracy in Turkey today. I, on the anniversary of February 28th, present to the General Assembly the knowledge that democracy is indispensable in Turkey, that our nation will never allow understanding to interfere with democracy, that it will never give way to understanding, that the rulings who perform all forms of antidemocratic practice behind it cannot be permanent and that our nation will not allow it, and that I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0011par0211	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, today is February 28, 2014; 17 years have passed since the postmodern coup, and Parliament is working today. We think the best response to the blows is that the military is working. We as the Court, in this context, no matter what the cause, no matter what its name. We don't think the coups are appropriate for our country and Turkey. Aslolan is the state of law and democratic politics. We repeat the emphasis.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0012par0216	Is there any legal government left, Mr. President? What legal state are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0011par0217	Congressmans, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's 28/2/2014 meeting on Friday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. The proposal is that a parliamentary investigation into measures to be taken in the fight against corruption (10/776) of Turkey's Grand National Assembly agenda was proposed to co-operate in the General Assembly's 28/02/2014 Friday-day merger. The first statement, in favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, belongs to Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0013par0230	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I curse the coup de Postmodern on February 28th, but Parliament is no place to sleep, my friends. Have we been able to change the Constitution of September 12th? Has it changed? It's been 35 years. So, have we been able to connect the Chief of Staff to the Secretary of State? We couldn't tie it. Barely, we removed the 35th article from the Internal Service Law. And after that, now, by God, when we look at the last laws we bring in, it's all forbidden, forbidden, censored, forbidden, TİB, HSYK, MIT. Now, to oppose a coup would be to strengthen democracy, my friends. Democratic societies are talking societies, transparent societies, societies where there is a separation of powers. Now, we submitted this research motion on April 13, 2012. What did we say? Let's fight corruption, my friends. And when I gave this motion, I did a very technical and inclusive research. Believe me, what's going on in Turkey, because the food of coups is corruption, my friends. If it weren't for the village fires of the 1990s and the unsolved murders of the perpetrators, there were gangs like mushrooms in the 1990s, and they didn't put themselves in the state's place of law and commit murders, no one would dare attempt a postmodern coup on February 28, 1997. Now, let's take a walk, open up a horizon. Turkey has 81 province's private administrations, 30 of which turn into a city council, which passed the law. There were 3,226 municipalities, some of which were city municipalities, and the number dropped around 1,200. 34,600 villages, over a thousand local government units, an unknown number of businesses. Most municipalities have about a thousand companies, there are nearly 50. There are many municipalities. Again, there is an unknown number of spinning capitals and funds. Taking into account each of these, the municipalities employ 450,000, except for companies, tens of thousands of personnel in private administrations. Such a public organisation is impossible to run with this centralist understanding because the financial structure in Turkey is complex, inefficient, and the local tax base is low. The guarantees that the treasury provides for foreign debt by municipalities are disrupting financial discipline, and the municipalities do not have a healthy debt management. Here, in a month, we're going to the elections. With the support of the World Bank, our Parliament has carried out a study called "Current Reforms and Policys for the Protection of Corruption and Active Government in Turkey." This study has identified 16 different areas of anti-corruption. These 16 different areas are vital. The situation and what needs to be done in these matters have also been detailed. The study determined that the anti-corruption legislation was not deterrent, that there was a public price injustice, that it was difficult to keep track of money, that it was necessary to implement tenders, staff regimes, audits, health care, customs, local administration reforms. Friends, in every report of the European Union from 2009 to 2014, you read the same words about fighting corruption. It has been noted that the Council of Europe's Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO) recommendations have been taken into account, that the Public Officers Ethics Board is not effective, that parliamentary immunity is limited in cases related to corruption. Turkey's public accounting system is unable to answer the need. One of the reasons the Court can't control these budget talks is the lack of accounting records, my friends. There were 300 unsubstantiated reports. Turkey's public accounting system, as a reflection of the budget, is inadequate to display, timely and comprehensive information, as a reflection of the budget. Public acquisition: the contract when you say public acquisition is a contract, my friends. It is the country that holds the world's most common record of changing Turkey's tender law. And these tenders have always been tied to the powers of governments to give big investments to whoever they want. The third bridge, Marmaray, the third airport, is the Canal İstanbul, the Harem Project, all of which are being tendered according to the government's demands. Now, if this system is malfunctioning, it is not possible to expand the scope and transparency of the budget to allow the production of appropriate policies and performance assessments. The current budget structure does not cover an important part of public income and spending. So you're giving the government's treasures, forests, ports to anyone you want for forty-nine years, ninety-nine years, twenty-five years, with the do-and-do system. You register the mines, even the forests when the energy sector enters. You write on these companies. The structure and function of public services in Turkey also does not catch the pace of the economy's development. While we claim to be the world's 16th largest economy, the image we give outside is a third world country, my friends. Public fees are not determined on the basis of competition, and the opportunities for education remain limited. Public control is inadequate according to international standards, administrative control is weighed down, performance is not given very little or very little. An audit reform programme in accordance with international standards has not been developed. The system for legal regulatory implementation of banking is insufficient. That's what the financial review is all about, and that's what the transfer on finances is all about. Health care in Turkey is a very complex structure, and it is also far from being able to meet the need effectively. Inequalities are observed in access to health care, resources are inefficient, management cannot provide activities. I see the restructuring of the customs service, facilitating operations, providing effective control of customs, strengthening it to the computer network as a problem. There are too many cases left to judge and prosecutors in the Republic's Attorney Generals and courts, and there are too many of them, and the Supreme Court's labor is preventing the judiciary from functioning. There is no effective struggle with the laundering of black money, my friends. The lack of central databases in the institutions also prevents information from getting in time. The same is true of the problems caused by the foundation of the Financial Crimes Research Agency. Now, after these final arrangements, friends, the President's State Control Board, the Prime Minister's Inspection Board, the Human Rights Foundation are already standing there, where the ombudsman is standing. Given the dysfunction of all of this and the recent developments, the House needs to conduct a thorough investigation. So in all aspects of this, in the event of a full investigation, Congress can provide preventive measures, make legal arrangements. We think all parties will be sensitive about it, we offer respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0014par0247	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party will speak on the group's proposal and will speak against İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0015par0251	Mr. President, the first motion given by the Peace and Democracy Party was to investigate parallel states, but it was withdrawn. Hopefully, they'll give it back, because it's also the duty of this Assembly to find out how many parallel states there are in Turkey and to explain it to the Turkish public. It is also our job to show how those who complain about some parallel states in Turkey form their own parallel states. Dear friends, we are opposed to all the coups in Turkey, all the impacts in the world and all the impacts in space. We're all very good at this, uh, hamster speeches about these coups. But the truth is, I can't say that we're very good at reacting when it happens -- for example, during February 28th, I was a bureaucrat at the time, and we were pretty much in the middle of it, and we saw a lot of things live. Today, I agree with those who condemned February 28th as a coup, but was the position of the deceased, Mr. Erbakan, and his government, against the coup? What you call February 28 is the date of the meeting of the National Security Council. This government is tasked with explaining its National Security Council protocols to the Turkish nation. I demand that if we want to fight the blows, if we really want to know who's fighting the coups, publish the February 28th National Security Council. You can't just lecture a porter like that around here. Mr. Erbakan signed the full statement, not enough, but the government issued all the statements ordered by Mr. President with his signature. Now that everything has happened here today, everyone is against the attacks. He's making a speech, and I don't really find it sincere or convincing. Now, dear friends, today's topic is a matter of corruption. Really, we're going through a very interesting time in our history, and every day, you're making it seem like you're giving people a shock. We also learned today that Reza Zarrab and his friends were released!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0016par0254	Gang gang! It's illegal money!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0015par0255	Look, Reza Zarrab is not just a matter of common corruption. You'll soon find out that this is also a matter of espionage, a national security issue, and you won't be able to cover it up, because a cloth that can cover up this mess, as our President-General said, hasn't been done. We're tired and tired of this ugly politics. Just because of these corruptions, this government has no legitimacy issues... so if you ask me, there's no surprise... did the Turkish nation not know that these corruptions existed if they didn't land on the Internet? Now, I'm asking you, is what's going on in this country, or who doesn't know a prime minister's promotion from slums to villas, his kids own a ship, and a businessman said he had $1 billion in this country years ago? In fact, what we've been through, I repeat, is a notice of the obvious. Dear friends, I am certainly not dealing with the Justice and Development Party Group. My business is with Erdogan and his accomplices. I don't even want to think that most conscientious, conscientious lawmakers in the Justice and Development Party group feel differently about this than I do. Dear friends, as I said, Mr. Prime Minister Erdogan and his government's legitimacy is long gone. Wasn't it a constitutional legitimacy issue to suspend Constitution's secularism principle when the 4+4+4 law came out? Wasn't it a question of legitimacy to try to give land without a fight with the Annan Plan in Cyprus? Wasn't it a constitutional legitimacy issue in Oslo, in the foreign land, in front of a foreign commissioner, to attempt the Constitution of Turkey? Dear friends, isn't it a matter of constitutional legitimacy to frame the national elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, as your friend said, with false evidence? Now, sometimes coups are done with guns, sometimes you can hit them with the law. With the referendum on September 12, 2010, you began the process of taking over this country by law in Turkey. Every day is a new law, every law is a new law, every law is for a Prime Minister, and every law is to create one party state and one power. I mean, what more do you have to do to make a coup? Oh, Mr. President just said: "The House is working, happy for us." My dear, Parliament was open after March 12th, and the Parliament was open after February 28th.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0017par0261	Now he works for Reza Zarrab.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0015par0262	It is not important that parliaments are open in shape, it is important that parliaments remain spiritually and faithfully open to democracy. And if these parliaments can't protect their rights and surrender their legitimacy to a number of people and their accomplices, that parliament can't be proud enough to be open, it can't be comfortable doing its duty. Dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister has raised the head of a defeated terrorist organization to equal prime minister. If this was done by consulting him and it was so easy, why didn't you come in 2002 and do it right away, and you've caused the deaths of dozens, hundreds of our children and our citizens who live there, our citizens, if that's how simple it was? Dear friends, can it be the constitutional legitimacy of a racist and sectarian, divisive policy? We face a constant conflicting power with the Constitution, no matter where we put our hands on it. Dear friends, you're talking about the will of the nation. People's will is no cover for robbery. If you try to cover the people's will for robbery, it's an illegitimate event. Now you're going to tell me: you've counted since the beginning of time. You have declared us illegitimate, Erdogan and his accomplices. Friends, do not believe me, believe Mr. Cemil Cicek. What does Cemil Cicek say? The 138th article of the Constitution has been suspended, he says. I mean, isn't that a violation of the Constitution? Isn't that an explanation enough to open the debate of legitimacy on your own? Now, to be honest, Mr. President has become a full supporter of Mr. Erdoğan and his friends' accomplices. Think of a member of the president -- I'm saying it in the face -- indeed, like the notary of Chankaya, or completely agreeing. I find it worse because you're going to get the Internet Law to agree, you're going to approve, you're going to go back and say, "I've called the ministers, I've made a phone call, I've made a phone call to the party, you're going to fix this." And then you're going to approve the HSYK Law and then you're going to delay it, and you're going to lose some time in the Official Gazette, and you're going to buy time for it. Then which nation are you referring to? Whose president is this? Look, you put a ban on this President so he doesn't get re-elected. We went to the Supreme Court to defend the rule of law and applied for the reelection of Mr. President. I said to Mr President's advisor at a dinner at İzmir to the President of Finland -- I don't want to give his name here -- look, Mr President, he's been President of 49 percent of this country so far, so now let this be a new notebook, and let the bride become President of 100 percent of this country. But these events show that Mr. President has no intention of becoming President of 100 percent of this country.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0018par0268	He reset himself.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0015par0269	Dear friends, what we're experiencing is a state crisis. Unfortunately, the Turkish community and all of us will suffer out of this crisis. If it's our job to pull Turkey out of the state crisis, it'll be our job. We take Turkey out of this crisis that it puts Erdogan and its partners in, we know how to take it out, we have those positions, we have that savings. (HPP) Turkey is not helpless, we do not condemn Turkey to crises, neither economic crises nor political crises. The next election is a great opportunity for this. We know the seriousness of the state. I'm asking you, how did Ebru Dayday get in and out of the Department of Agriculture 20 times?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0019par0271	He's an animal!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0015par0272	It's our duty to get the government back on its feet. My respects to all of you. God help the Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0020par0276	Thank you. In my speech earlier, while highlighting the working of this Assembly, I would like to point out that from this bench, we are against the violence, against the coups. I meant no. In favour of the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party, Mr Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0021par0281	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're talking corruption here again. We're talking about the corruption of the Justice and Development Party, but with that in the government's jurisdiction, by the way, we're condemning February 28th here, and I agree with that condemnation. We must condemn all kinds of blows, and condemn the coup d'état. We must also condemn the government's coup against the House. Look, I'll point out that we should also condemn the government's impact on the law, and condemn the coup of execution. Because the coup isn't done just by wearing boots and moving tanks. And once you've eliminated the separation of the men, you've struck again. Therefore, I hope that we will not only condemn the insults expressed here, but also condemn the coups of governments on the living and the judiciary. On the one hand, we see that while corruption is occupying Turkey's agenda, someone on the other side is in a lot of trouble to save himself. There's a serious effort on the judiciary, on the police, on how to save myself in Turkey, and right next to us, in Crimea, there's valuable friends, there's another coup. There's a Russian coup there, but the Foreign Minister is nowhere to be found, the state of the Republic of Turkey is nowhere to be found. In Crimea, these days, when our brothers' future is uncertain, there is no one who has already taken over Turkey, and I want to express it with regret. Turkey must return to a country where there is a separation between men, where there is no conflict between institutions, where institutions function normally. There's no respect for institutions in Turkey, I'm afraid, thanks to you. During the 12 years in which you were in power, unfortunately, any institution has no dignity left in Turkey. Go ask an ordinary citizen, do you trust the Medical Association? Say, "No one trusts you." Go ask any citizen if we're resting. Everyone will say, "We're resting." Go and ask any citizen if any questions have been stolen from the NGO? You can be sure that a large number of people will say questions have been stolen from the OSYM. Go ask any citizen, is TÜBITAK reliable? If we take those alleged audio recordings to TÜBITAK, if we get a report from there, will you believe it? Ask yourself, would you believe it? No one will believe it. Unfortunately, that's where the state ends, folks. You've finished the state, you've finished the state for 12 years; you've ended the dignity of the state, you've ended the reputation of the institutions, but not only have you finished it, but you've brought the institutions to the point of conflict. Today, MIT is operating on police, police are operating on MIT. What kind of business is that? Even among the judges, they're almost in the position to operate on each other. I don't know if you've brought this country to an unmanageable point, do you realize that? You've done the worst evil that can be done to this country. Dear AKP lawmakers, you have done the worst that can be done to this country. The greatest evil that can be done to this country is to cause institutions to lose their dignity, to discriminate among institutions, to discriminate among institutions, to allow other organizations outside the state, and today to become a mismanager of those organizations. This was all done at your time. Where were you when all this was being done? You were here. But if there are other organizations who have crushed my enemy because they are not against you, let them crush it. You allowed this army's chief of staff to be called "terrorist" with false recordings of military incarceration. But you didn't think, you didn't think that one day this gun would turn and shoot you too. Where were you yesterday when you were doing smears on the National Movement Party where you were arm in arm? Where were you when the fake tapes went into people's private lives? You were here. So much so that you stomped on those tapes in the polls. You're on those tapes. Just to get ahead of the election.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0022par0285	That didn't happen.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0021par0286	When the same was done to the CHP, you again did not display a primitive stance. Wait a minute, my friend, the institutions of this state are being damaged, there are opposition parties within the institutions of this state, because opposition parties are part of democracy, it's essential, you didn't think that if we attack the opposition by illegal means today, our democracy would get hurt. Whatever we pull, it's a profit. You've looked into it with your mind. So today, that gun is shooting you guys, and I want you to know that it's gonna keep shooting you. Why? For not exhibiting a principled, vertebrate posture. And you still, unfortunately, continue to maintain the same policy today. You're still stomping on the same tapes today at the polls.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0023par0287	And now you're kicking!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0021par0288	You're going on...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0023par0289	Now you're stomping on these tapes! Straighten it out!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0021par0290	You're going on... We're taking a primitive stance.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0023par0292	If it's primitive, then why are you stomping? Straighten it out!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0024par0293	There's nothing special about bribes and corruption! 10 million is not enough. Send 100 million. They are resetting their bribe money. What's so special about him? They've been court-martialed!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0021par0294	We're taking a primitive stance. We haven't said a word about anyone's personal life, and we won't let them be.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0023par0295	Behave yourself!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0025par0296	I don't think so.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0026par0297	Are you defending Reza? Are you defending Reza?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0298	But if someone's taking millions of dollars, if someone says they're going to come and sit on our laps, who's going to sit on your lap? Businessmen of this country. If you're giving a speech about putting businessmen in your lap, do we, as opposition, cover our ears, cover our ears? Here, sit the businessmen in your lap. Shall we say? Of course not.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0028par0299	So you believe the tape is true.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0300	Of course not.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0029par0301	Let's have a clean word, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0302	Of course not.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0030par0303	So you believe the tape is true.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0304	It's a clean language... we received this conversation from the alleged phone call from Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, don't bother. We're just like...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0030par0305	You're saying it like it's real.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0031par0306	You don't have to repeat yourself on the council bench.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0307	Yes, it is your word that is claimed.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0030par0308	But you say it like it's real.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0031par0309	You don't have to repeat it on the stand, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0310	You said the alleged ETÖ, you said the alleged terrorist organization, you said the Ergenekonians.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0030par0311	The bet is one thing, the truth is another.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0032par0312	Oh, it's their voice!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0313	Where were you when you called the army a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0032par0314	They've created pool media, they've formed the Alo Fatih lines; they're still denying it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0315	Today, I'm afraid...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0033par0316	It's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's bad!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0027par0317	Dear friends, today, Engin Alan, elected by the people, fought for this country for years, risked his life, but Reza Sarraf is out there; what justice is this, what justice is this? The people who are going to take millions are out there, the millions are out there, the Engin Alan is in there, General Basbug is in there, but your accomplices, who you took the millions with you, are out there; what kind of justice is that? You still haven't learned, you guys haven't learned. You're still playing judge, you're still playing court. Why don't you take a lesson? Enough, enough damage to the institutions of this country, enough damage to the reputation of this country's institutions, and no more suppressing the legal system under your feet. With everything, it came out with pictures of how you took millions, in the house of Reza Sarrafs and the children of the minister, the money in the shoeboxes, these people didn't forget, and you're taking them out today. Enough of the damage you have done to this country so far, friends, and do no more damage to this country's institutions, to its institutions, to its reputation. And you'll see, the damage you've done to the reputation of these institutions will return tomorrow and shoot you again, you'll see. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0034par0321	Thank you. The final speaker against the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal is Eskişehir MP Salih Husband. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0035par0325	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment against the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal. I salute your high council. We all know that fighting coups, corruption, poverty, and bans is the common duty of all our MPs, regardless of the party's distinction, and in that sense, serious struggles have been carried out in this country. On this occasion, I would also like to cherish the late Necmuddin Erbakan. Yes, I'd like to point out that fighting corruption is really important and it's all our duty. I want to fight corruption and stress that Turkey ranked 77th in the index of corruption among 103 countries, while according to the index in 2010, it rose to 56th place between 178 countries, and rose to 21 steps in a more participating environment. Again, our valued lawmakers mentioned here, trusting in national will, they focused on some mistakes, corruption not being done, not being hidden under this cover. We believe that, too, and I want to be honest with you that those who are corrupt, those who try to live with prohibitions, and those who do not fight poverty, will never allow this nation to pass. So, in fact, here, I want to point out that we have to trust our nation. In fact, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, in his speech on this stand, stated that there would be no more gangs, no more coupters, under this roof, on this stand. And when he said that, he actually expressed his trust in his people. So this nation, with their insight, will never allow those who are involved in corruption to pass; they did not, and they will not after that. Unfortunately, the attack on the national will on December 17th has been violated again and again every day in our great Parliament, the 38th and 138th articles of our Constitution. As you know, no one can be considered guilty until the sentence of the Constitution is constant according to Article 138. This principle, considered a norm of innocence or of innocence, is at the top of its most basic human rights. Again, in Article 15 of our Constitution, no one can be considered guilty until war, mobilisation, martial law, or even in extraordinary circumstances. The third joke of our Constitution's Article 138 is that there is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, no statement. However, our House can, of course, carry out any work on crime fighting and criminal politics. Working for the welfare and safety of the nation is one of the most fundamental responsibilities of this great House. I regret to inform you that all of these principles have been disregarded, and for the past two months, there have been executions in this House, some of which are still under investigation, and executions without trial. Our prime minister and group have been accused of a number of issues, based solely on allegations, and some editing audio recordings have been released. Conspiracies, plans, and footworks were exhibited to undermine power. In this regard, I believe that all of our political parties should take care of themselves, and I would like to share with you a story similar to this event. There was an old luster in one of the towns, and one day a customer came along. He made a brief statement and demanded that he file a complaint against his neighbor and that he write a petition. So the arbiter said to our citizen, "Look here, do you want me to write this black-covered book, or do you want me to write the petition from this white-covered book?" Our citizen said: "It doesn't matter whether it's good or not, let the price be black. " After that, our citizen made his trade and came back to the suitor to receive the petition. He began to read the petition he had written from the black cover, and our citizen began to weep. He turned to me and asked: "Why are you crying? Why are you crying? It's really important what the citizen said; what was done to me by my neighbor, and what had happened to me, and what had happened to me, and what had happened to me. " Like this, when we look at such events, we believe that we should all look around together while considering such events. Unfortunately, for two months now, some of our politicians have been trying to do politics by closing their eyes on this nation. In fact, in my general sense, let's look at the street together; let's look at the nation together; let's look at our citizens from north to south, from east to west. What our citizens say, what are our citizens' feelings, what are their demands, how our citizens look at these events, these audio recordings, these footplays, I believe we should all look at them together. I believe we should trust our nation. While fighting corruption and poverty, I believe the demands of the nation should be taken into consideration. Today, however, when we look at our citizens in Turkey and look at all our citizens living abroad, we see together the confidence of our Prime Minister. When we go out on the streets, when we travel through our provinces, we see together the confidence of this nation's Prime Minister, who has fought corruption, poverty, and bans throughout his ten years of politics. So we say that the process in front of us is really important, that our people see and appreciate what's going on in a discreet way. I'm saying that even though someone is trying to honor the black-covered notebooks, put this country on a dark path, design politics and this country in this way, even though they're trying to put on a show and carry on the game of lust, we're going to continue to write white pages, hopefully, with the will of our nation. There is no doubt that as many times in our political history, I say in the coming period, our nation's will will will put the best option in the formation of legitimate and fair governments ahead of us on March 30th and in the presidential elections and general elections that will follow. I want to repeat here that we need to trust our nation, trust the chest, care about people's choices. But those who have no confidence in the nation, no project against the nation, must end this black politics, the politics taken out of the black book, on behalf of this country's future, on behalf of our children, on behalf of our children, on behalf of this country, I salute and respectfully salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0036par0337	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0037par0338	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit01spe0036par0339	I will submit the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0036par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The vote of the Peace and Democracy Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Friday (February 28, 2014), there is no consensus among political party groups, so I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On 3 December 2013, the parliamentary research proposal that we gave 1233 points to the head of the TBMM, Hatay MP Adnan Şişek Güçük and his friends, in order to determine the difficult working conditions of police services personnel and the measures to be taken in terms of their rights was proposed on Friday (February 28, 2014) by reading at the General Assembly (now). The first statement, in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party, belongs to Mr. Adnan Safik Uçük. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0038par0019	Mr. President, thank you very much. Congressmans, I salute you with respect, love and respect, sir. Members of parliament, today we have submitted this motion to investigate various demands of the police force, their difficulties, and a number of issues that need to be dealt with. As it is known, law enforcement, members of this organization, members of this organization, their families have great problems; they have financial problems, they have spiritual problems, they have social problems, and we have a research proposal on how to deal with these issues, how to take measures, what to do, what to do, what to do, and how to complete them. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, when we look at it, we see that from hundreds of thousands of people, our members of law enforcement have two basic difficulties: working conditions and economic conditions. I mean, if a cop works 60 hours a week, and he's on rest, leave, official holiday, holiday vacation, if he's got these concepts off his back, and he's resting on his feet, and he's on a field of duty, and he's in economic problems, he's got nothing. May God bless them all, they serve the life of the world. I mean, think of a cop... two years ago, I gave a speech here as of April 10th, Police Day; the day before I did, I visited a police station, and I discovered that one of our officers had been in that police station for 18 years. I asked him again yesterday, I called the same police station, and he's still there, 20 years, 20 years in the police station. I mean, don't say police, but he's responsible for providing 3-5 personnel and 300,500,000 residents with night stands. There's no fuel, no staff, no way, and it's a police class who are facing all kinds of insolence, theft, terror acts at the very first moment, if necessary. Anti-terrorism, protection, law enforcement, almost every unit has a problem with the police. The other main problem is economic problems and additional indicators at the beginning. When we look at it, the additional indicator of police officers, police commissioners, commissioners, lieutenants, police officers and police officers, who have a master's degree and a master's degree and a master's degree, is 2,200. That's 87 percent of our police force. What's left? There are fourth, third, second-rate police chiefs, first-class police chiefs; one of them is 3,000, and the other one is 3,600. Dear friends, 87 percent of the organization is miserable. What does our cop want? Our police want the same rights as a Petty Officer who won, given to him; they don't want the rights of a general, a commanding officer, a higher bureaucrat, an undersecretary. A sergeant major's additional indicator is 3,600, the Turkish police want the same thing, and you're holding it hostage. Months go by, years go by, and even though we've been saying it over and over again, you can't seem to fix this additional inefficiency that causes a 48-50 percent reduction in pension. Now, we'd like to touch on this, dear friends, these are the police, they have a family. We've got female cops, we've got male cops, they've got wives, they've got kids. Now, two years ago, I'd like to repeat a question I asked you, including all lawmakers, including ourselves: after becoming a congressman, before becoming a member of parliament, in social life, like everyone else, as a family person, once in a while, we take our children, our wives, and take them to dinner. Did you see a cop here with his family? Did you ever see a family of cops who took his family, brought his family to dinner on a weekend break, had a conversation with them, spent time with them? You can't see it; it's either timeless or it's not affordable. Now, could this be a family man from the police, a mother from the police, a son from the police? But, despite the circumstances, our police are doing their police work, doing their duty. Dear friends, he's got a lot on his plate. We just told you, no official holidays, no holidays, no tours, any minute now, he could be called to duty, and besides, no rest, he could be called to duty at any time. Do the police have two days off a week without a warrant? No. Today, every officer, at least, knows that he's got a weekend off; he's got rest, other jobs for the weekend, but the police don't have that. Hundreds of thousands of people... who are responsible for our dignity, honor, honor, honor, honor... who cannot protect these people, this Parliament, the government can't protect them. Now, that's enough, conscience, mercy! Everybody, no cops. We're looking at the soldier, the soldier has an agency law, so there are laws that protect the soldier's law under these conditions. We're making our governors Chief of Police; God bless them, they're doing great service, but they're not from the police. The Chiefs of Police, like the Chiefs of Staff, should not hope to be assigned to another post after that mission, should return to his institution; then he will defend his institution's rights, and then he will have to deal with the problems of his own members. Why? He'll be out of commission in a few years, and he'll retire anyway. So, that's the simplest thing, that's the simplest measure, so these are very important. Thus, our governors, not only at the government's disposal of this government, are unable to carry their problems to the government, even though they are in the position of being relieved of duty at any time or to go to a great place. It's a fact. Let's sit down and make an agency law. We call it a hundred and fifty-year institution, and there's no proper agency law. Dear friends, the police have political conditions, so the police are in a very bad situation right now. Tens of thousands of police officers are going into exile, and the children of the police community, their wives, are also in massive trauma. Like yesterday, in the trial of Balyoz, Ergenekon, Lakecuk, the children of the country's heroic officers were traumatized by their classmates, and your father was traumatized by the Turkish police today, not just by the ones who were arrested, but by all of them. The only authority to judge Turkey's police here is the nation. It's one thing to attack our police unjustly, intentionally. They call it. Who says that? I stand by that. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan says so. In that case, I invite the Prime Minister to stand by this. We don't blame a total community, we don't give anything anyway, we don't seem to be a genius in any way, at least we don't have to blame it that way. Congressmans, this is the honor and honor we owe the Turkish police, and this Parliament must settle this matter, at least look into this. I hope you'll say yes, even if you don't solve the problems, to investigate the problems. I give you all my regards, my love.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0039par0034	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. The first speaker of the National Movement Party's proposal against the group's proposal is Mr. Oğuz Khan Koksal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0038	Mr. President, honored members of the High Council, I salute you as you begin my words. Before I move on to the group proposal from the MPP, today is February 28th, the anniversary of the postmodern coup; I condemn this coup, this attack on our democracy, once again, from this council bench. I would like to continue by saying, "May God never allow this country to be struck again and condemn the coups again and let our democracy stand firm." My dear President and the esteemed members of our Parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the motion of the National Movement Party for Police, and I would like to make a statement in this speech. As you know, 80 or 85 per cent of the population in Turkey lives in the police area, so police provide security and security for a very large population. When we look at this point, the issue of the number of cops is that, as we've just said, the working conditions of the police are a little heavy, and we already know that the working conditions of the police are heavy. For that to be corrected, of course, their numbers need to be increased. So, if we want to increase the number of cops that are now about 250,000 to eight hours, we're going to have to raise it to 500,000. Because every day, the police district is increasing, and the number of police involved is increasing. In that sense, of course, let's say we find a cast like this, it would take years to train a staff like that. Considering there are 5,000, 6,000 people in police schools every year, and about 10,000 out of college graduates have joined the police force, you should consider that number. But, in terms of the AK PARTY governments, what did the AK PARTY do? The number of cops he got from 180,000 increased to 250,000 today. By raising the 52-year-old retirement age to 55, police have again been granted three more years of relief and thus increased in number. Oh, besides that, what did he do to the police department? I'll tell you what they're doing financially later, but I'd like to say, valuable lawmakers: Our fellow member of the National Movement Party, who just spoke, said: "There is no holiday, police have no holiday, there is no Christmas, it works. Now, right now, the police department is not like the population department, so let's lock the apartment when the holiday comes, and when the holidays are over, let's open it; it doesn't exist! Every minute, every second, every hour of the night or day, the honor of our citizen... who has entrusted his most important things to the police, our citizen. What is it?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0041par0043	Can you repay me, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0044	He has entrusted his life, his wealth, his honor. He has to protect it, and it's true, and he has to do his duty. And when we look at countries like Turkey, when we think of some confusions being created, we think of them as being created, and when social events are on the agenda, the police force is having a little bit more trouble. In fact, our police may have some wishes, but there's one other thing that we need to say here: when the police intervene in social events and do their primary work, our other parties, our other institutions, our groups address the police as if they're addressing the enemy, then we have to come and encourage them together. We have to say that the police force is an organization that exists to survive democracy that this country really needs to exist.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0042par0045	I mean, that's it! We almost believe what you're saying, Governor!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0046	What if there is no institution in democracies that can guarantee or intervene when democracy is violated? Every institution, every time you look at democracy, there's a police force. Oh, there's good in this organization, and there's bad in it, and I don't want to go in there because I'm speaking the basics. If there's a bad one, it means he's already neglecting his duty, so he'll be processed. Just now, our congressman said: "The police have been transferred from their homes, as many as this, but just now, five minutes before they spoke, he said: I came here two years ago speaking, and there was the same policeman in the police station; two years later, when I was coming here, there is the same policeman. In fact, your first assessment is correct to me, look, I agree with him.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0043par0047	Then transfer him, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0048	For him, the police force... that change is actually a shift change. One guy's gonna be in the police station for 18 years, one guy's gonna be in organized crime for 20 years. Well, that's not fair, dear! You gotta take it and give it away somewhere. I mean, where was he banished? Sir, this police officer was taken from the organization to the police station or elsewhere.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0044par0049	Why didn't you give it to me when I was chief of police?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0050	In fact, the police departments will come to the other side, that's what they do here. I'd like to rephrase that here. Otherwise, none of our cops were taken, not to different places, but to another unit from where they were, so get up from that table, and sit down at that table. It was called natural, which is the irony of civil service now. Oh, on the other hand, the police sacrifice, yes, the police are a dedicated agency, and while they're making this sacrifice, the police are aware of it, and if you want to make it clear from here, every year, the police will receive 6,000 or 7,000 people from the universities, but 100,000 people will apply. Look, it's chosen from 100,000 people. I mean, people on the outside love this agency so much that 100,000 people apply.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0045par0052	The unemployed are applying for it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0053	Look, we've passed the charter law, and there's still 500 people who haven't applied, but 100,000 people are applying to the police force.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0046par0054	How many people want to leave?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0040par0055	When we look at college graduates, university graduates get about 10,000 college graduates, including 30,000 or 40,000 people applying each year to become police officers. So, actually, I would like to say that this is a sacrifice of the police profession, the love of the Turkish youth for the police profession. Those who make so many sacrifices, they're doing well. We don't call them that. Of course, those who make sacrifices need to increase them in terms of possibilities. As a matter of fact, when the AK PARTY came to power, we doubled the police's salary five to six times as much. In some places, the bonus was raised. So, right now, this year, we've given 160,000 cops a salary bonus. Gene, we've made sure that our cops get paid for games, tests, and, in turn, they're short on police work... and we've started implementing this in some cities, and there's a pilot study right now: when we run for eight hours, there's a pilot in some provinces where we want to see if we can complete this with patrols or motor vehicles, but there's a lot of net results, because no matter what you do, the number is important in the police force. If you can increase the number, it will be done at a point you call it. So, morale, motivation, our congressman said, and I think that if 100,000 people apply for a place to buy 7,000 people, there's still dignity and morale and motivation in that profession, I want to express it here. Of course, when it's all said and done, I don't mean to say that everything is fine, that we don't give anything to the police department. About this, the police department, as I've just told you, there's no holiday vacation, no day-to-night, no night-to-night, no holiday... because it has to work, it has to work, it has to be the system, it has no choice. Whatever you give to the dedicated organization that works like this, I want to express it, from the bottom of my heart. So, there's a study in our Department of Police and the Ministry of Interior about what we can increase, what we can do, what we can do. Hopefully, when this study is completed and its arrival in Congress -- and I'm telling our member of parliament here -- with the unanimous opinion of all groups, if the police are so concerned, this work will be concluded, legislized, and the needs of the police will be more comfortable. Of course, when we look at this, despite everything, it's a dedicated, brave, heroic organization that currently serves under the state of the police force, which is in the service of its nation. I'd like to rephrase that here. In honor of this motion, I present to you from here, especially to the relatives of our fallen officers, to our veterans, and to the long lives of our work with the police force, and hopefully, as soon as we put it into action, again, as I express my hope that it will come to Congress, you, our members of parliament, and the High Assembly, welcome all of you, who are watching us.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0047par0061	Thank you. The second speaker, Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep, is in favor of the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0048par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today we are discussing the problems of an institution, an institution that is really important to our state, the problems of the law enforcement agency. Now, as I listened to Mr. Koksal, I realized that I had to bring some things up again, and I said: "If 12 years of work can't be concluded, then no work can be concluded. The problem is, the police are heavy on our working conditions. The other officers work 40 hours, we work 60 hours. What do you say about that? Sir, here, we'll increase the number. But that's it. It's not like that, it's not like that! Now, if you can't get the police to move well and manage, no matter how much you increase the number, you can't. Sir, despite all of this, if there are citizens who want to be so many police officers, then this profession is still attractive. Do you know why it's coming? It's unemployment. I wish he had said that right now, how many people have petitioned to leave the police force and are waiting in line for the petitions? I wish Mr. Koksal had said that. He was chief of police, he knows that, but he doesn't say that here. Police officers say that the additional indicator for those of us who have reached the level of education is retirement, near retirement, and 3,600 when he leaves. Why can't ours be done? The police say so. At the moment, the minister before the current minister said it would be fixed. The minister's gone, but the problem isn't solved. It's not going to work out anymore. When will it be resolved? If the AKP leaves power, this problem will be solved by the police. That's what the cops want. He's got concrete demands. What do you say about these concrete demands? The police have a problem with discipline; are you going to change the disciplinary code or not? The disciplinary code, of course, may contain a bit of harsh measures, according to other public officials, but it gives the superiors infinite discretion. Are you going to fix this or not? Now, you can't activate it by increasing the number. If you get the police to do certain tasks that the police won't do, that they don't have to do, no matter how much you increase the number, you can't activate it. Look, the police are giving him the passport. The police say that traffic services are not about police work. The police are doing the notifications, the police are giving you the hunting licenses. If you want to activate the police, if you want to direct them to the police and the police, you'll get the police's duties that the police shouldn't be doing, and that's how you'll activate the police. Now, a concrete question: take into account the number of police officers on the day of the group meetings. What do I mean by that? Police officers assigned to protective services. If you use the police as an orderly, you can't activate the police if you work as an officer who serves the person responsible for his safety. It's about shipping and management. You can't deal with this transfer and management issue by increasing the number, and you can't activate the police. When you take the police, you take the reference. Can you expect efficiency from a profession based on reference? You can't wait. The police are working under such heavy conditions that around 300 police officers have committed suicide in the last ten years. Are you investigating the cause of these suicides? Do you take credit for the reports on the cause of the suicides? Do you know where all this is coming from? You don't care about that because you don't want to fix these problems, you only use problems. Congressmans, the position of 67,000 police officers has been changed recently, no questions asked. Now, acting from an example given by Mr. Ugly, Mr. Koksal says: "It's a change of scenery." Of course. You know, there's a law enforcement assignment and a relocation policy. According to police appointment and relocation regulations, it has been made clear there when the police will be replaced, how long they will serve in the region, and what assignments they will be assigned to. If you make the easy assignment, if you are toss out police officers, law enforcement members from right to left, there will be no sense of duty or service love left in the police. That has to be considered. You're ignoring this, unfortunately. Another question: there are two boards, the High Evaluation Board and the Central Evaluation Board. Do you consider the work these two boards have done, the decisions they've made fair? Unless these boards make a fair decision, you can't please police officers, police officers, any of the staff in the law enforcement class. So, not until we're focused on these problems. Are you being objective when you reward police, law enforcement? You're not. Then the police will have no enthusiasm. What are you guys doing? Sometimes you reward the police with epic writing, and after a while, you accuse the same cop as the gang. Can such an organization work with zeal, fulfill its duty, and do the best that it can do the public's service? Dear friends, you're not only interested in this -- now that you've changed your view of the police -- you want to transfer part of the services you've made to the Homeland Security Agency. What happened? Why are you handing it over? Because your view of the police has changed. When you change your view of the police, you want to take some assignments from that agency and give them to another agency. This is not the way to look at state institutions; it does not apply to state institutions, proximity and distance. What did you do? You've turned state agencies against each other, you've made them conflict. Government institutions, on the other hand, should work in harmony, cooperation, and co-operation, but your practices have pushed the police away from this. What have you done yet? You've restricted the freedom of rights of police officers from right to left, from left to left, from right to left, making it difficult for the decision to stop the execution by applying to the judiciary. Why? Because the decision cannot be made to stop the execution without the defence. You have changed the law. What are you guys doing? You make arrangements based on events and conjunctives. When you make arrangements based on events and conjunctives, you can't make an institution efficient, you can't run it well, you can't get what's expected of that institution. So, what do you have to do? Here's what you need to do. 1) You will act objectively when you deploy the police. 2) You will give in-service training in line with the police profession, and you will consider the rules of police ethics in your training. See, there's the European Code of Police Ethics; you must give in-service education in accordance with the conditions prescribed by regulations and the systems envisioned here. What should you do? You have to train them in accordance with democratic society requirements. What else should you do? You're going to train the police to interfere with social events in a way that does not confront citizens or the public. That's not what you do. What are you doing? You're directing the police to confront the citizen, and with the wrong decisions made by the government, unfortunately, confidence in the police force has been reduced today. Why? Because of the wrong orders you gave me. By your orders, you have confronted the police, led the citizens to trust erosion. And that's how you did the worst thing to the police force, the worst of it. The worst thing to do to the police force is to bring it against the public. Because police are an organization where citizens face the state for the first time. So you had to make all your arrangements according to him. You have to train the police according to the pluralistic society requirements, you have to train the police according to democratic society requirements, and you will not lead the police into office to cover corruption, thefts. It's the worst thing to do to the police. You brought the police up against the courthouse with misdirection.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0049par0084	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0048par0085	Now the police are trapped under pressure from their own superiors and from the courthouse. You have to get rid of this. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0049par0088	Thank you. The last speaker of the National Movement Party's proposal against the group's proposal is Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0050par0092	Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have taken a pledge against the offer of the Parliament to open a parliamentary investigation in order to investigate the problems caused by the heavy working conditions of law enforcement class personnel and to determine the measures taken in terms of their rights. I salute you all. Dear friends, today is the anniversary of February 28th, a black mark in the history of our country's democracy. We need to analyze the 28th February process, which is an open intervention in national will, very well by the nation. Anyone or anyone who targets our country, our nation, and our spiritual values is doomed to lose. I, on this occasion believe that all individuals in different views, NGOs, groups, should meet at a point of mutual opposition, national will, and I condemn the postmodern coup process of February 28th and its architects. Dear lawmakers, the establishment of social peace and peace depends on increasing the sense of trust in society. For this reason, the issue of security is one of the main tasks of our government that it has never considered the material size and certainly has not compromised its compensation. The uninterrupted guarantee of our property and safety is our law enforcement agency, the protector of human rights and freedom. Our law enforcement has taken on a sensitive and highly sacred duty to prevent and deter all malicious activities that will disrupt our social peace, damage the environment of trust, threaten the safety of lives and property, and to be a deterrent in this matter. Developmental technology, transportation and communication opportunities have also made significant changes in the quality and quantity of criminals. With the resources provided for him, the Turkish police are happy to observe new technologies and methods in the security area and to adapt successfully to different conditions. All the units of our Turkish police force have shown significant breakthroughs in research and development with their majoring in modern, technological construction, and have successfully carried out their mission to universal dimensions with a high performance in international cooperation. On the other hand, our police department has been one of the highest educational institutions, while the level of education for those entering the profession is increasing and the number of vocational education is increasing every day. This raised the quality of police service and opened the way for healthier communication with our nation. In terms of military service, changes have been made in our police's favor and our police's mandate has been lifted. Our police have been given the opportunity to be a police officer and a senior police officer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let no one doubt that we have the right to approach the problems of our police. In spite of all the difficulties in his profession, special efforts are being carried out to improve the working conditions of our police officers who carry out their duties through performance and sacrifice. As is known, the working systems of law enforcement class personnel are based on the working hours of law enforcement class personnel. Different working systems can also be implemented with the approval of the governorships, given the requirements, the risk situation, the number of personnel and similar criteria. In a unit that implements my work site 8-24, staff operates on average 40 hours a week, while staff work on the basis of the 12-24 work system works 60 hours a week. As a result of scientific studies related to the working hours, the most qualified police force-based ergonomic shift system, known as 8-24, has been developed and gradually implemented, primarily police stations. The work has been launched in 18 provinces as part of improving the hours of police officers. The Ergonomic shift system is planned to be implemented throughout the country, with the number of employees reaching developed country standards. As the number of personnel increases, the transition to this system will accelerate. Lawmakers have also been working on the lacks of law enforcement members due to their wages and social rights, which continue to be done. In this regard, talks with the Finance Ministry are under way by our Ministry of Interior to boost additional indicators that will affect compensations and especially police pensions. Studies are under way to pave the way for paying the ministry's security services class staff to be paid by hours of overtime, as well as for the amendment of the labour fee expressed by the relevant law to ▪ security compensation and other financial rights to be organised. Despite increasing personnel in law enforcement every year, the number of known and expected suicides has also dropped. In this reduction, education at the desired level of staff selection has been effective, raising standards, and more solutions to professional difficulties or problems than the previous years. In addition, the agency may have reasons for the introduction of psychiatric support services. In order to prevent suicides in the police force, suicides are being examined in their place by the team of experts who have been created, proposals for solutions are being developed in light of the information obtained from these research and investigations. In order to provide psychological support to police personnel, to contribute to the solution of their problems, guidance and psychological counselling units have been established in all our provinces and police educational institutions. In these units, psychologists and psychologists have been assigned. The number of expert staff assigned to guidance services in 2004 was 13 and has recently exceeded 150. Police General Directorate experts provide training and seminars on domestic problems, family counselling, prevention of occupational communication, psychological problems and solutions, suicide prevention and management skills, communication and so on. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have had to deal with a lot of challenges and problems from the past to the present, while our police carry out their duties. Our government has never been indifferent to the problems of our police. It is known that new efforts are being carried out to improve the working conditions of members of our law enforcement force, who are not afraid to put their lives on the line for the unity and unity of our nation, and to address their professional problems. We've been closely monitoring the work of our police on working conditions and professional issues, the government's government on solving issues that are considered and not counted in the motion to investigate them, and we know that important work is being done. Unfortunately, we cannot participate in parliament's motion to investigate the problems of the nationalist Action Party Group's law enforcement class staff in terms of heavy working conditions and to investigate measures to be taken in terms of their rights, due to the urgent and important agenda of parliament. He also asks for God's mercy on our fallen heroes, and I offer my respect and thanks to our veterans. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0051par0108	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0052par0109	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit02spe0051par0110	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0051par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The nationalist Movement Party's group's proposal for the vote failed to reach a sufficient number of decisions. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council's 28/2/2014 meeting on Friday (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Smyrna MP Rahmi Türeli and his friends issued a parliamentary research motion on 17/4/2013 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (857 rows) in order to establish policies aimed at the discovery of inadequacies and boosting support by the agricultural support system. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and to be read in Friday's daily assembly 28/2/2014, and to hold their talks in the same dated combination. The first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, İzmir MP Rahmi Küreli of Love. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0053par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the motion to examine our group's agricultural support system, to expose the lack of agricultural support and to increase agricultural support. I salute the grand jury. Dear lawmakers, the agricultural sector is an important sector, but also a strategic sector. In particular, all national and international authorities are united, as we think this population growth rate will continue and the increase in food demand will continue, and will be more important in the future than today. Of course, this industry's very serious impact on the economy, not just in the agricultural sector, but in other sectors, has its reflections on them. For one thing, let's say that the agricultural industry is primarily a food industry that meets the needs of the population. Not just the people who live in this country, but the valued lawmakers; the agricultural sector is strategic in terms of the feeding of tourists coming to our country through tourism. On the other hand, it's an exporting business. It's an employment industry. Still, 25 per cent of our working population is being employed in the agricultural sector. And finally, it's a industry that provides raw materials to the industry. So, we know that a business with an important share of exports, such as our textile industry, depends on the production of cotton. We also know that sugar industry depends on the production of sugar beets. So it's an industry that provides raw materials for agriculture, other agricultural areas, production and industry. Of course, this sector is also dependent on weather conditions, and it's very dependent on climate conditions. Therefore, valuable lawmakers are supported by agricultural sectors all over the world. Today, we see that from less developed countries to developed countries, wherever you look, the agricultural sector is given special importance, and the agricultural sector is supported by different programmes and policies. Now, of course, the industry is easy. You build a factory, you build a building, you put machines in it, you produce 24 hours when you need to, you can produce three shifts, eight hours straight, but not the agricultural sector. The agricultural sector is a climate-dependent industry. There's drought, there's heavy rain, there's what we call agricultural harmful diseases. All of this leads to a serious determination of the production of agriculture. In this regard, this sector needs special support. Now, in terms of Turkey, if we look at what is the relative share of agriculture in the economy, we see that the agricultural sector's share of national income is 8 percent, dear friends, but the share of agricultural employment in total employment is 25 percent. So 25 per cent of the employees work, but they only produce 8 per cent of the national income. In fact, this points to a very warped situation, pointing out that the agricultural sector has serious problems, that the agricultural sector's poverty problem is very common and deep. As a matter of fact, the figures of the TÜİK (TİK) also show this. See, TÜİK set the limits of food and food plus non-food poverty by 2009; in 2009 it suddenly stopped, and now it doesn't continue. We say our criticisms about it all over the place. According to this, in 2002 -- for Turkey -- and we say that these poverty limits are low -- the poverty rate is 27 percent, the food plus the food outside, down to 18 percent in 2009, but at the same time, 34 per cent in the country, up to 39 per cent in the country. I mean, poverty doesn't go down in the country, it just goes up. In 2009 -- I repeat -- in Turkey, when the city and the country averaged, it was 18 percent in the city, 39 percent in the country, and more than twice as many in the country. That actually shows how serious poverty is in the country. Of course, there are reasons for this: it's natural for farmers and livestock to become poor where the price of input is so high, but the price of products is not increasing. Now, look, I'm going to do the 2002-2013 comparison again. I'm going to say the average diesel in 2002: $1.10, over $4.5 in 2013, now around 4.65. Four-and-a-half times the price increase in gas, guys. Likewise, when you look at it as urethra fertilizer per ton, there's a 4.2-fold increase. And again, DAP is three and a half times in fertilizer. So we see the average input prices increase four to four and a half times. So, did the prices go up at this rate? Unfortunately, it hasn't increased. The increase in wheat prices is only 2.5 times, 1.6 times the sugar beets, 2.2 times the thick cotton. So, in an environment where the inputs increase four to four and a half times, if the price of products, agricultural products, is up by two to two and a half times, there's a serious problem here. And again, look, you know, the last time the National Milk Council set the price of raw milk. It was a dollar, it was a dollar, it was a nickel, it was a five-cent raise, guys. But we all know the milk manufacturer costs 1.20 cents. What does that mean? The price of milk given to the farmer has not even met the price of bait, so the milk-food parite has fallen below 1. However, we know that in all the developed countries of the world, it is one and a half, and even in some countries, it is higher than the European countries in the countries that support agriculture. But we see in Turkey that there's an environment where prices don't cover costs, and when the Milk Council announced prices, all expectations were above 1,20, but unfortunately, we found that there was only a five-cent increase, 1.05 cents. Of course, we always say, friends, look, you don't obey the laws you made during the AKP administration. Law 5488, dated 2006, states in Article 21 of the Agricultural Law: Money reserved for agricultural support cannot be less than one percent in national income. So you're going to give a higher support than 1 percent of national income. But I'll tell you the numbers: from 2007 until 2013 -- the official numbers of the state, they're program figures that the Ministry of Development has prepared -- that's about 5,6 percent of a thousand, not 1 percent, half of a percent. Of course, since it is known that there is such a flaw, by the AKP government, by the ministers, during our budget talks, each minister in the Plan Budget and the General Assembly is doing his own calculations, friends. Like what did the Minister of Finance do? When the official figure of the state comes in, puts the agricultural loan subsidies on the explained numbers, buys intervention and finances of agricultural CITs, it's not 1 per cent again; it's 7.7 per thousand. That's not enough, the Minister of Agriculture won't be able to take the pace of the spending, which on top of these figures put the DSI's irrigation investments on the finance minister's account, put in land collection and field development services, and finally raised the figure to over 11%. Good but dear friends, these are already covered in agricultural investments, you can't count that here again. Then you've counted it twice. If you're going to count here -- if you're going to over 1 percent -- you're going to go to agricultural investments, you're going to subtract that number from agricultural investments. That's what I did. When I went out and made the number, I found out that in 2012, public agricultural investments were $6.4 billion, and in 2013 it went down to $2.8 billion, so there's a downsizing of 57-1%. So please, let's do the math properly. No one has the right to deceive the farmer, the farmer. You have to give one percent, but if you can't, go out, give realistic excuses, but this is the way it happened, this is the way it happened, we can't give it, that's not really the number. The Minister of Agriculture can't take the speed again, and there's the OECD account -- he puts the OECD account in, and according to the OECD account, agricultural support in Turkey is 2.1 percent and is above the OECD average. Well, friends, this is another account. The OECD does this: it buys world prices and domestic prices for certain products, and it assumes the difference between them as if it were given to the farmer. It's not a support, it's not a cash support, it's a support on paper, it's a computational thing. It also gets the price of this product, but it doesn't put the difference in input prices into this calculation, in this way. As a matter of fact, Turkey is among the most expensive countries in the world in input, mazotta, fertilizer. And I'll tell you again, according to this account, the OECD account in 2012 says 2.1. Now, I'm asking: Why did you drop from 3.6 percent to 2.1 percent by OECD's account? What's the motive? We need to explain this reason here. In summation of the situation, friends show that in Turkey, the farmer and the animalist is miserable, unable to pay the cost of production, he cannot pay his debts, his most basic production tools, his field, his tractor, has been impounded. What could be more natural than a farmer waiting to be cured? But unfortunately, the AKP governments, the AKP's government, have blocked their ears to him, to the demands of the farmer, to the livestock. It's important to open a congressional investigation on this matter and discuss it and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we feel that both the quantity needs to be increased and a new model needs to be put in the middle. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0054par0036	Thank you. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0055par0039	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the CHP group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have been living a process that has been intertwined between right and wrong, and right and wrong for a long time. So that we bear witness that those who do not break the word of God come to the point of drowning in the forbidden foods that they eat, and that those who stand up for the truth strive in falsehood, and that those who do not know, apart from Him, cast false oaths in their false hopes. My wish is that our people will be free from this corruption, this racket, and this turmoil, and never again be subjected to such situations. Dear lawmakers, Turkey, a self-sustaining country in the past, has today been reduced to importers in many major products, due to the situation in which AKP governments quickly adopted the neoliberal policies affected the agricultural sector. In order for us to understand where we are in agricultural production, we need to look at the number of growths that were widely praised during the AKP administration. The average growth rate in the period from 2003 to 2011 is 5.4, while the growth rate in the agricultural sector is slightly higher than 2. In addition, the GDP share of the agricultural sector fell below 7 per cent at the point we came from when it was over 10 per cent. Dear lawmakers, in the past, wasn't Turkey one of the seven self-sufficient countries of the world in agriculture? But at this point, unfortunately, now, wheat, barley, beans, cotton, sunflowers, and finally, red meat have been imported. The only reason for this situation, which has been reduced to agriculture in Turkey, is the wrong policies and insufficient support in agriculture. See, dear friends, in 2002, a quart of masoth was $1.20, and now it's 4.5. These increases in agricultural inputs have not only been limited to diesel, but there have been increases between 3 and 4 times in agricultural medicine and fertilizer prices. Despite increases in input prices, the price of many products remained at 2002, and under the circumstances, the farmer became very difficult to produce. As far as product groups are concerned, Turkey is an exporter of fat seeds, beans, grain and red meat. In other words, our production doesn't cover domestic consumption. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important agricultural production pens in my constituency, Şanliurfa, is undoubtedly cotton, and I'd like to address some of the problems that cotton manufacturers face. The fact that cotton production is largely based on human labor, especially on anchoring and harvest, and the excessive use of production inputs are the main factors in the production cost. In addition, because of the problems with irrigation and the irrigation projects that have been unfinished for 40 years, our farmers need well water and therefore electricity. This also increases production costs and causes our farmers to produce harm. Dear lawmakers only explain and purchase cotton in Urbana. According to my work, the cotton prices of the last three years were as follows: Snow price opened at 800 liras in 2010, sold up to $1,000 in 2011; it opened at 1,500 liras in 2011, went up to 2,500 lira; it opened at $900 in 2012, and it was hard to see £1.200. That's the visible face of politics. So 2012, the cotton price didn't even reach half of the 2011 price, so it's behind him. The price is erratic in this frugalness because the regulator is weak, unable to buy enough to regulate the market, some years almost no purchase; the square is directly reserved for traders and industrialists. Prices are stuck somewhere between the merchant's conscience and his wallet, waiting. Dear MPs, I would like to complete my words by reminding the leading actors of these policies, especially those that need a drop of water, along with the GAP region, that we know as well as any of you. We're not going to defend illegal use at this point. However, you, who have spent years in need of these wells, who you've comforted by the GAP scam, who have been using economic policies for years, who have been opening up the scissor at the bottom of the income distribution, who have been up in unemployment, who have been adding tens and thousands to the seasonal slave caravan every year, and who have been paying for a carton of cigarettes or a can of mazota, who have done all of this, if you know as much as you do, are aware of it, and we know as well as you do. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0056par0053	Thank you. The second speaker, Adana MP Mr. Muharrem Varlı, on behalf of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0057par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party group proposal. I have received a motion for research on agricultural product support, and on behalf of the National Party for Action in favour of this research proposal. I salute you all. My dear friends, their agricultural support, each time, Mr. Secretary, when we speak here or on television when he comes to the stand, we give this much to the farmer, and he talks about the support he's given as if he's giving out of his own pocket. Now, corn support hasn't changed in years, so 40 thousand liras with four cents old money; cotton support hasn't changed; 50 cents, that's 500 grand in old money. Now, as farmers, we say, "Ya, Minister, we don't need your support." You stop these imported products from the outside, ban imports from outside while the farmer's product is being harvested, let our product pay for it, let us make money from our product. We have nothing to do with your support, we have no account. But, Mr. Secretary, though we have repeatedly warned here, we always bring corn from the outside to harvest corn, when cotton comes from the outside to harvest cotton, when wheat comes from the outside. Yeah, our farmer is the most loyal, poorest farmer in the world. You go into the field at the crack of dawn, the rain sows without saying mud, cold, winter, without saying hot, when it harvests, when it harvests, when it earns money, you go out, you bring corn, cotton, wheat; you make money for them; our farmer's crops remain in his hands. I warned you here in May last year, I said: Mr. Secretary, stop importing corn from the outside. If you don't stop this import of corn, if the bait mills are full of corn, when the corn harvest starts, the farmer's corn won't be worth anything. When the farmer's corn doesn't pay, when he can't find a buyer, he loses it and the farmer loses it. They didn't listen, sir, there's no foreign imported corn. Turkey needs about 5 million tons. Turkey produces enough corn to meet its needs, but you go and bring corn from outside, from Romania, from Ukraine, from other countries, sir, so our manufacturer doesn't pay for the corn during the harvest. Now, here we are, in the harvest season, the corn harvest, every day the price of corn began to drop. Until what? Fifty-four cents, that's 540 grand in the old number. Is that a good thing? So, the year before, between $610,000 and $630,000 of corn was suddenly reduced, and it came down to 540,000 liras. I was right about what I said, and I wish I wasn't right. But I warned you in May, I said, "Don't, stop imported corn from the outside." Sir, limit the documents you gave to the starch factories. Now, again, I'm telling you, right now, those who run 40,000 acres in Romania, 50,000 acres, 100,000 acres, and the starch factories in Turkey have made a deal to import corn from next year, corn from there. So, just a year ago, Romania was contacted, bringing imported corn from Romania. So, what's my farmer gonna do, how's he gonna make, how's he gonna make money, how's he gonna provide for his kids? All the damage, all the damage, all the damage, to what extent, friends? So, for God's sake, we all need to put our hands under the table to support the farmer who makes it. If we don't put our hands on the stone, we'll have this country's farmer planted, planted, and reaped, and we'll make him flee. We call it ejaculation. Why do villages come? The man used to be able to teach 30 acres, 40 acres of farms, his children, his education, his needs -- but now? - Now he's running away, he's moving into the suburbs of the cities, and you're going to go and get these people's votes with two bags of coal, two bags of pasta, two kilos of grain. Dear friends, this is the wrong policy; we have to support the person who makes it. Look, I'm telling you every time a Turkish farmer uses the world's most expensive diesel, the world's most expensive fertilizer. What do these farm loan co-ops do, bro? What are the agricultural loan co-ops for? It was set up to give the farmer cheap fertilizer, cheap diesel, but go, it's now the price of fertilizer in agricultural loan co-ops above the free market. What happened to the deal with Iran, $400 million, $8 million, cheap fertilizer from Iran? There's nothing, it's all afakki, apologic speeches... My dear friends, look, in two months, when the farmer needed fertilizer, the fertilizer prices went up 25 percent, 25 percent. Look, when it was $800, which was 80 cents, it was $1.20-20 fertilizer, DAP fertilizer $1.4, which is an old number, $1,400,000, and urethra fertilizer is $1,200,000. Oh, my God, is that a joke? The farmer who makes corn sells corn under the price of the previous year, the cotton farmer sells cotton under the price of the previous year, but you, just like that, sir, allow the fertilizer prices to increase by 25 percent when the farmer needs fertilizer. This is for the farmer, the farmer, we don't know you, brother, let go of this field, and your team. It means, there is no other meaning. My dear friends, the peanut has hit the bottom, the sunflower has hit the bottom, the corn has hit the bottom, and there is no wheat because of the drought. May Allah grant you a good mercy. Especially if there is no wheat in the Inner Anatolian region, there is no wheat in Turkey. Now, what's this farmer gonna do, how's he gonna make money, how's he gonna make it? We all have to put our hands on the ground. Let's take down 18 percent of the fertilizer, let the farmer make money out of it, but no, when he gets to it, you just reset 18 percent of the VAT when it comes to ornaments, gold, silver. So the farmer is a stepchild in this country? Is the farmer guilty because he produced it, the farmer because he put his forehead's sweat on the ground? My dear friends, with these policies, the farmer can't make money. The speaker just made some very good points about the cotton numbers. He's right, between $800 and $1.2, so he saw a cotton sale between 80 and $1.2 two years ago. We're giving you support. You're saying that. If you support it, if you put 50 cents on it, that's £500,000, it's $1.7. This cotton costs $1.8, it's close to $2. It's got harvest, it's got poison, it's got fertilizer, it's got watering, it's got farm rent. Well, none of this is being accounted for, sir, we're giving this much support. It's as if the Minister is putting his hand in his pocket, and I'm giving you this much support. Where are you giving it, brother? You're giving them out of my taxes. You don't even give me 1 percent of the taxes you get from the farmer. Here's the speaker who just mentioned, you have to give 1 percent, you have to give back a certain amount of added value, you don't even give it back, but you say you're leaving, sir, you're not giving it out of your pocket, Mr. Secretary, you're giving it out of this nation's taxes, and you're not giving it back. Now, my dear friends, see, this is a subject of file-making agricultural support again. Everyone knows in the villages, everyone has settled their land, 20 acres fell to his uncle's son, 20 acres to his uncle's son. Now, the island is being built into a parcel thing, and the satellite image is being filed according to the island's parsel collection. Therefore, the farmer is a victim. So whatever was planted in that parcel of satellite images in the past, if the farmer's statement and the statement of the village chief kept, if the satellite footage was holding, there was no problem in the file. Now it says: "There is no, according to the island parcel, I will make a sort of arrangement. " Therefore, the farmer also has a 30% loss here. That's why this needs to be arranged as soon as possible. If we don't organize this... look, there's absolutely no corruption or fraud there because there's satellite footage. From satellite images, you can see if he planted corn or cotton or whatever was planted there. This is the farmer's statement, if the chief's statement is true, if it supports each other, we have to accept it. But you're making a law for people who keep money in shoe boxes. I mean, come on, let's make a law to protect this farmer. Let's make a law to protect the farmer who makes it for God's sake. But it's the law to protect people who collect freckle dollars in safes and shoe boxes, and shit on farmers! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0058par0072	Thank you. The last speaker against the Republican People's Party Group proposal is Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0059par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Of course, the Republican People's Party Group proposal is on agricultural support. THE AK PARTY's agricultural policies are truly admirable practices in the eyes of our citizens. That's what our citizens appreciate in every election. I, today, instead of agriculture... one of the most important days is today, February 28th.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0060par0079	The day of the evacuations.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0059par0080	It's the anniversary of one of the dark and embarrassing days of Turkey's history. February 28th in this country has been so painful that not only has it hurt people, but even plants. In the coup of February 28th, those who side with the oppressors have been in action against our nation and our state since December 17th. December 17th was a black mark on Turkey's legal history. In preparation for the December 17th conspiracy, the execution process, with support and instructions from inside and outside, has left all other coup attempts behind, recorded as an act of treason against the nation and the state. I would like to address our beloved nation, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens: The parallel structure of operations against the nation and state of this country has recently signed a major political engineering in Adana. In the war in Syria, the Turkishmen and Muslim brothers, who were under the influence of humanitarian aid, have been operated on trucks belonging to our National Intelligence Agency, and our country has been tried to show war criminals. Dear MPs, this operation on our country's future was staged on January 18th and 19th, when our Foreign Minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, was in Adana for an ambassador's meeting. On January 18th, the Chief of Gendarmes of Adana province had discovered the MIT trucks at the site of the operation and told them that an operation would take place on the Al-Qaeda group on January 19th. Before the truck was reported, the police captain went to the D.A.'s house to meet him for 20 minutes. On Sunday (January 19th), a fixed phone call was reported to the telephone line of Jandarma 156. Upon the notice, the Chief of State of the District has entered into a joint judicial operation plan with the special prosecutor to capture three trucks carrying explosives on the direction of Adana, which was reportedly being launched by the entire gendarme organization. Although there was a lot of information in the report that only explosives-loaded trucks were mentioned and that had previously been attempted bombings on behalf of terrorist organisations, Adana Gendarme Command did not share this report with the security authorities of the province's governor, the city's police department and other cities on the route. As it is known, the trucks will cross the Adana province centre and head towards Ceyhan, the gendarme Ceyhan Sirkeli has set up at the highway entrance and stopped the car in which the members of the MIT were escorted by three trucks. The members of the MIT in the automobile were not allowed to show their identities and to inform their superiors on the phone, while members of the MIT were beaten and handcuffed to a mobile holding cell. Later, a number of police personnel who were on the trucks without any safety precautions were able to open the containers and capture them. After the video was taken, three trucks were returned to Adana to be taken to the gendarme barracks and two of the trucks were left there on the highway at İncirlik position and one was taken downtown to the intersection of Teachers' Avenue and a second search was made in the custody of 28 journalists in the prosecutor's custody. The reason why trucks are wanted to be moved to different spots here is because the number of trucks is too much to show. The operation, which began at 12:01 a.m. without informing the superiors of its property, was served as news at 12:28 p.m. by Doğan News Agency as if it had been watched alive. The matter was announced to the governor of the province who accompanied Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu at 12:40 p.m. Despite the fact that the members of the MIT have claimed to be officers, the governorate and police officers have submitted documents that the staff is an MIT officer, the Chief of the State and the special prosecutor have tried to stop you from getting in front of the trucks. Dear lawmakers, it is not only an operation against humanity to stop aid trucks from going to this country where more than 150,000 people have lost their lives in Syria, where the United Nations has stopped counting the deaths. Unfortunately, they left a dangerous structure within the state, and they went after the MIT trucks. The treatments that have not even been done to traffickers are sensitive to the M.S.I.S. today. This incident means that the country's secret unit is unable to function in the face of foreign units. It is the duty of the MIT to act against existing and possible initiatives that are turning from the heart and outward towards the integrity of Turkey, its independence and its security. The MIT conducts efforts to prepare the state for internal and external threats and counterintelligence and formations, while carrying out its responsibility to the President, the Prime Minister. They say: "We are upholding the laws. Let everyone know what this MIT is doing, and let seven duvets be heard with us, and this secret service, which is under the supervision and protection of the Prime Minister, stand up and do business on its own. It is not clear what this secret service is doing. Let everyone know what it is doing, and let them hear it with us. Isn't it just to reveal the secret activities of a truck, what the truck is carrying, not what it's carrying, but what it's doing to protect the country's interests, to serve the main and supreme cause -- its name above its name? Isn't that cutting the branch we're riding? Isn't it about removing the president, the Prime Minister, the nation's top-secret strategy at the point of the country's existence and defence and thus the secrecy of the big picture to the world? Think of a country where there's a state, an army, and borders, but there's no secret existential policy, so let's know almost everything around the world, can this kind of formation be called a country? I call upon my great nation, is this nation, who will not even blink when sacrificing its life for its religion and its homeland, ever come to this game that will cause Turkey to fall into such a state? Those who support these networks, those who remain silent against what is being done, and those who defend what they do, are not on the side of the country and the nation. I say take your heads out of the shoeboxes you've buried and raise your voice against traitors. This country says we're all against the CHP group proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0061par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0062par0086	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0061par0087	I'm going to put the Republican People's Party's group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the group proposal is not accepted. Congressmans, under the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 3rd place in the 3rd place, under the National Education Basic Law, and the draft of the Law and Law Act. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the past session, the talk on the Commission and the government's motion, which had been issued by İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal and his friends, which envisioned the dissolution of Article 13 of the First Amendment, which was considered the main law under Article 91, was interrupted. Now, I would like to call Mr. Tanal to the stand and give him two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0063par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. In the 1st grade of law school, the late Erdogan Alkin came to our economics class. He used to liken economics to the oven of a halmacun that opened in a neighborhood, saying: "It's the demand that creates the desire. If there is no demand, there is no supply. This is the basic principle of economics. When we look at our case from this point of view, why are the classrooms removed, and why are they banned? So, Mr. Secretary, if there's no demand, there's no need for the creation of the classrooms. So, as a result, our basic principle in economic principle is that the subject that gives birth to the classroom is due to the inadequacy of the quality of education. The 48th article of our Constitution states that Teşebbüsler is free. This, of course, is a matter between fundamental rights and freedoms, between economic freedoms. If the classrooms are banned today, tomorrow the barbers can be shut down, hairdressers can be banned, underwear sellers can be banned. So this, in fact, is a law that brings basic rights and freedoms to us slowly and slowly. This is also contrary to Article 6 of the Additional Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. In this regard, in accordance with Article 90 of our Constitution, due to the fact that international contracts are under internal law -- reviewing this matter again of the Council's commission and the ministry's Parliamentary presidency -- I would very seriously and sincerely declare that the Constitution be taken back, that our motion should be accepted, and I would salute all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0064par0114	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the change of Frame 13 in the following form of the 562 Numbered Bill of Legislature. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The following temporary clause has been added to Law 13-5580. Temporal Article 5- The educational activities of student education centres that provide training and training services that prepare for exams in the history of the publication of this article can continue until 1/9/2015. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0065par0125	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0064par0126	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0066par0129	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we have 30 March local elections ahead of us. In these local elections, you know, teachers are usually polling staff. In the districts of districts about teachers who are these polling officers, governors in cities want lists of members of opposition unions who are teachers -- Education Sen, Turkish Education-You, one or two other opposition unions -- and they don't put them in the polls. Mr. Secretary, is it a crime to be union, to be a union, organized teacher...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0067par0130	Yeah, it's a crime. They're always in prisons, like criminals.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0066par0131	So you think it's honest, humane, legal behavior for your government to do this in accordance with the unions among your teachers and make the teachers of the union close to the government a polling officer?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0068par0132	The coup law...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0066par0133	I strongly condemn it. In my district, in Şırnak, the lists have been taken. The lists have been taken, and the only time in the past... is because I'm a witness myself, and I'm bringing it to your attention. Mr. Secretary, let me ask you something else. I don't know, I take care of things in Şırnak. Education, health, road, small things like that, but I pay attention to the college's paperwork. Why do colleges and schools make all the purchases of the stationery out of Iconium? Minister, I'm asking. I'm curious, I'm asking. Many of Şırnak University's school's stationery purchases are made out of Konya. If he's passed out to the stationery, we're finished, we're miserable. Now, really, do you guys think that education is demeaning until stationery? Is that a demeaning act in a county, in a county, in the sale of stationery?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0069par0136	The Chancellor was from the Conium, that's what they said.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0066par0137	Now, I really want to express this with all sincerity: when it comes to the Ministry of National Education, we take the situation of private schools and we see that these private schools are in certain areas. These belong to certain parallel structures. Mr. Secretary, do you have any data on these private schools? I don't know, how many homes, how many schools, how many parallel schools do you have when you're drunk between the two of you? What are you going to do with them? I mean, what in God's name do you want with our Education Support Homes? We open it in Şırnak, you close it; we open it in Cizre, you close it; we open it in Cleopatra, you close it. The citizen has no money, he sends his children. He's preparing for college, preparing for KPSS, preparing for the exam, so these young people, these kids... anyway, Şırnak is always the last one in the exams. Why don't you ask him, why does he always come in first from the end? I mean, you have to ask. Of course, my university was founded in Şırnak, which has not had a building for seven or eight years, and has no campus. Why is it that he's late, even though we've given him so much treasure land, even though we've put the whole city together, people, and we've given him thousands of acres? Does someone have to make a profit, make a run at some place? And why did he delay it? Şırnak University's campus site has been relocated three times. Eventually, they landed below the city, making room for a capacity of 10,000 people. Now, they're going to complete it by two separate campuses, near the airport in Cizre and Idil. So, deep inside, deep wound, so when are friends in this country going to be abandoned to handle everything, to control everything from the center, to manage everything by the skull, to manage everything by the idea? February 28th, we're strongly condemned here, but we're going to condemn these behaviors, so that's the truth. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0070par0142	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers a draft bill, which has been referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Law and Code of Laws (1/884), which has been discussed in the 24/2/2014 and 25th meeting of the National Laws Act (1/624), under which shall be proposed to the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission as the Plan and Budget Commission as the European Commission, and shall be presented as the 13/2015th Amendment. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0071par0151	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0070par0152	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion, Adana MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0072par0155	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 13 of the Law Bill 562. I salute you all. Article 13 is a provision that regulates the closing of classrooms. Now, what is the need for such a clause, dear lawmakers? He needs to be well identified. So, was it born of a need, or was it carried out by a sense of vengeance? When you make this determination, it's not a need; it's a sense of revenge against a community. You can't fool anyone at this point and you can't convince them. If this had been born of a need, the number of classrooms you came to power in 2002 was 2,122, the number of students was 606,000, the number of teachers was 19,000; the number of teachers increased to 4,099, and the number of students increased to 1,200,000. If you had an opinion at this point, if you had answered a need, the number of these classrooms, teachers, and students would not have increased so much. But what did you do? You, who walked arm in arm with you yesterday... are coming out to us today, telling us stories... what are you doing with traitors, parallel structures that have struck the national will? Weren't you the one who's been arm in arm with them for ten or twelve years? It's a shame now, isn't it? I'm calling you from here, you're the government. If you're going to do what it takes to be a state, if you're saying that you've got your MIT, you've got your security, you've changed your judgment, you've got your HSYK -- whoever's been betraying this state, who's been treasonous to this nation, find out, grab its ear, and do its due, but you're not holding back thousands of people, teachers, students, all of whom are serving on this road when you're talking about innocence. This is not the way you go, dear friends. Governments don't make decisions with a sense of revenge. If you decide on revenge, you're not going anywhere. This is a coup d'état. What do you do with the closing of the classrooms? You think you're working it out? You're hitting the families in the fakruzarure, the people in Asia Minor, the poor wretch, the strange guru you're going to kick out of this race, which is clever but impossible. You can't fool anyone from here by saying that the parallel state, the traitor of the state, this is the one, and you can't convince them. This isn't the way you're going. I'm asking you from here: look, it's February 28th. On the 17th anniversary, we curse the coup, but look at you. What was done in this country on February 28th? Many people who believed that there was interference in this country were subject to investigations, and many people who lived in this parliament had received their share of these investigations. What were their reasons? Because there's an Irtica. Now, I'm telling you a parallel, you like parallel structure, and on December 17th, you thought you didn't get questioned in this country, you own everything; you created a parallel structure when your theft and corruption came out. Yesterday on February 28, 1997, when military coups, postmodern coups, questioned people of faith under the name of irtica, you had a parallel state when theft came out, because there was a parallel structure, what did you do today, that you would go over the parallel structure, that you would go after all the people who did wrong? You've declared a traitor. I mean, where are you gonna fit this? Now, do you think you've solved all this by targeting these classrooms, the teachers there, all the poor people of Anatolia who took advantage of this place? Is that an understanding? After that, sir, you don't have to come up here and tell me about it, sir, national will, February 28th, military coup. The most important thing that makes governments today is to separate right from wrong from guilty from innocent. You've been dating for two months, you're a veteran here. Were you able to put one criminal on the table? But you're turning millions into criminals. Do not shout, for they will surely be questioned. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0073par0164	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers the draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "International Education Basic Law Act and to Amendments in some Law and Law Conventions of Laws on Some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Laws (1/82/204)," which was drafted by the current Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to the Plan and Budget Commission on the European Commission on 21/02/2/2014, and to change the Act on the 562th and 25th Amendment Code of Laws. Zühal Topçı Lütfü Türkkan Seyfettin Yilmaz "The second sentence of Article 8 of Article 14-5580 of the Law has been lifted from effect." Now, since I have two proposals that I'm going to read, I'm going to process them together. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 14th Article of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of the 14th Article of the Law shall be changed by the National Education Basic Law and by certain Laws. With all due respect... Ali Original Day Fatma Nur Serker Malik Ecder Özdemir The signatures of the other motion are: Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan Hasip Kaplan Özdal Threer Selma River Does the commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0074par0194	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0073par0195	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0075par0196	Yeah, your training, of course, is a lot of problems. Mr. Secretary, February 21st was Earth's Mother's Day. Teachers of the World Mother Language Day shared it with students in the schools and classrooms where they were in Kurdish, Arabic, Kurdish, and Arabic, based on the importance of the World Mother Language Day. Why are these teachers being punished, Mr. Secretary? I thought you said there was an elective class in the schools. In Diyarbakir, you'll get the question motion... so, on one hand, you'll say that we've opened elective courses, mashallah, speak any language in the schools, anyone who wants to speak Kurdish, Zazaca, Çerçeçe, İschenı, Lazca, Laz. The governors, the principals, will give discipline to the teacher who spoke after him about Mother's Day. Well, I swear to God, I'm saying this as Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan: if one of those teachers gets punished -- which has been implemented -- I'm not going to let it go. But at least on February 21st, I'm going to say it 21 times on this stand, and I'm telling you straight from here. It's the 21st century, the 21st century, the World Anadil Day about different languages, cultures; teachers in the village with their students -- in the village, think, a Kurdish village -- they're already learning Turkish there -- the teacher speaks Kurdish there -- in his native language for two hours, then come after him, the governors you appointed, the trustees -- if they weren't racists, he wouldn't investigate discipline without this mentality. What the hell is this we're taking from you, brother, in the 21st century? Is it a crime to be born Kurdish? If it's a crime to be born, tell me. No, if it's not a crime, if we're human, there's a word for equality, there's a word for freedom, there's a word for language, there's an identity. After that, how many teachers do we raise at Artuklu University, they will teach in Kurdish in the native language? Why do we sacrifice them, my friends? We take them and we train them and we take them out and they demand them and you can't appoint these Kurdish teachers. So, what the hell is this? For God's sake, does everyone have to be born a Turk, Minister?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0076par0198	Mr. Hasip, tell me what's been done, what's being done, what's being defended in the native language.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0075par0199	Come on, bro, here's what you're doing. Today's February 28th coup is the blow to the tongue you made on February 21st, another blow to the tongue. What is this affliction, the coup? Is a coup just to come and knock someone out? Denial of a language is a coup. Denial of a language is assimilation, it's monomenism. Killing a language to live is murder. Look, guys, why don't you train the teachers at Artuklu University and then take them to the head of these classes? There's demand, there's schools, they're going to talk in their native language, they're going to talk in universities; you're going to get out -- the package for democratisation tomorrow -- and you're going to say, "Let private schools open." After that, you're going to punish a teacher just for speaking Kurdish. Mr. Secretary, is the NGO's secret generalization in effect? Once every three months, I ask the governors, the boards of directors, the students who want to study Kurdish in the main language, follow the university students, send them information. When did you remove the last NGO regulations, secret regulations, or is it in effect, I ask. I want an answer to that, too. But, Mr. Secretary, you have a really beautiful teacher's representation with a face, a face, a sense, respect, and I think it bothers you, and I say it. Indeed, in this day and age, still dealing with them in the 21st century is a sin, a sin. Either we talk about freedom here or we talk about bans. There's no other way. I'm paying my respects here again.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0077par0205	Thank you. Who's going to discuss the other motion? Mr Malik Ecder Özdemir, Sivas MP.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0078par0209	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my speech, I salute your grand delegation. My dear friends, his power, his opposition, we are all elected deputies in this country. Of course, we have responsibilities to the parties we've been elected to, the presidents of our parties, of course we will. However, I would like to stress the importance of our responsibility to our people, our country, and history. The day will come when all of us will end up as MPs and members of the party -- one day -- and we will all go down in history as members of the 24th term. After ten years, twenty years, when we question these days, we're not supposed to go back and sign the burdens that we're going to be embarrassed, accountable, or unable to handle in the course of the day we're serving today. My dear friends, members of lawmakers, I don't know if you're aware of this, but the country is quickly drifting into chaos. What happened after the 17 December bribery operation has become a state crisis. I don't think the fight here last night, or rather, chaos, has helped anyone. With his power, his opposition, probably no one was justified by yesterday's fight, and the loser, I think Turkey became the Grand National Assembly. As Mr. Cemil Cicek said last night, after the painting here, our Parliament's reputation on the street has once again fallen below zero. We've been trying to establish an educational law here for days, so to speak. Once again, we've seen that the Turkish Grand National Assembly, unfortunately, is the head of the institutions where we need education the most, the educated person. It must be one of the most important indicators of indignity to undermine criticism and bully those who insult and criticize every criticism. It is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to address the chaos in the country, but unfortunately, parliament has become the beginning of chaos, blasphemy, bad words, and fighting. Today, perhaps, here, in Parliament, we can only experience blasphemy and bad words, my dear friends. We get out of here after a while and apologize to each other. We could be gathering under the same roof. This may be a leniency, but if the chaos here today turns into a street tomorrow, it won't be possible to form a union between the side of the street. God forbid, when we divide society into camps, when street conflicts begin, we may face a bigger picture than today's picture. Therefore, from time to time, we must act on our responsibilities to our country, our people, and history, leaving our party identities aside. Today's the day. My dear friends, we need to understand what happened today, what happened today is beyond a power-to-mighty fight, so you go and I'll take your place, not a fight. As you pointed out today, no opposition party MPs, especially the Republican People's Party, intend to stage a coup and become a government in your place. Of course, it should go with the chest, that's the rule of democracy. But it seems that you can't even bear to go in the chest, even though you have come in the chest. You're undermining the law, democracy, so you don't lose the power you've captured. My time is short. In this parliament, Mr. Prime Minister is responsible for the fight on the street. We're all watching the Prime Minister speak at the rally. I came out wearing a coat. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to establish unity in this community, my dear friends? You drive the young men you put on shrouds at the rallies on the street, and we won't feed Mr. Prime Minister. You say that. My dear friends, there's a statement, and I think that no one should have any intention of eating something that has lost its taste or taste, and I'd like to bring to your attention once again today's painting. So today, there are four ministers under arrest...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0079par0217	The ministers weren't arrested.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0078par0218	Is it okay with you, dear friends, that the four ministers have resigned, the minister's children are arrested, the dollars come out of the shoeboxes? If you have a congressman who's happy with it, please raise your hand. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0080par0221	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers the draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "International Education Basic Law Act and to Amendments in some Law and Law Conventions of Laws on Some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Laws (1/82/204)," which was drafted by the current Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to the Plan and Budget Commission on the European Commission on 21/02/2/2014, and to change the Act on the 562th and 25th Amendment Code of Laws. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends The second sentence of Article 8 of Article 14-5580 of the Law has been lifted from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0081par0232	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0080par0233	Mr. Emin Çınar, the MP of Kastamon, is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0082par0236	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion that we have submitted as the National Movement Party Group on Article 14 of Law Bill 562. I salute your high council. Education is one of the most important needs a country needs to develop, advance, modernise, be strong in social and economic life. Untrained societies can neither go forward nor enter. Education, which is the antidote to ignorance, is crucial to the development of sums as it is necessary for each of them. So we have to raise generations that will take us forward in knowledge, technology, and all sorts of things. And in order to achieve that, you need a very good national education system that has solved every problem. Unfortunately, there is no such educational system in our country today. Today in our country, there is a corrupt education system. The AKP government has not only broken the harmony of the national education system, but has sabotaged our futures. One of the main concerns is that the quality of nationality in education and teaching is burned and blackened. This also carries with it serious anxiety and risks for our future. The arbitrary play on the education and teaching system, irresponsible and informal preferences, have distorted the harmony and bond between students and teachers. We have not fallen in national education, pine, unbreakable value. Prime Minister Erdogan's iptidai nature, authoritarian tendencies have completely engulfed his education and teaching life, causing severe damage to the system. Our teachers, our students, and our parents are sick and tired of the constant search for a changing system. In order for national education to be good and quality, the most important element of this system is to prepare environments that will allow teachers to do their jobs with quality. Before the problems of our teachers are solved, you can open all the schools, hand out all the tablet computers, all the classrooms you want, you can't achieve success with smart boards. Unfortunately, the problems of our teachers in the 11-year AKP rule have not been solved, and even the teachers have been created with complaint lines, and our precious teachers, who raised all of us, have been humiliated by our people. It is not possible for our teachers to receive an adequate and respectable salary. A teacher with 25 years of service in our country, where the poverty limit is 1,065 lira and the poverty limit is 3,470 liras, has a salary of $2,400. Our teachers should only think about education and teaching in the best possible way, but our teachers think about how they can bring the end of the month. The bill we discussed today does not provide a solution to the problems of our national educational system or to the problems of our teachers. The reputation of teachers has been marred during this period of power. In our country, we have a teacher who has not been assigned nearly 300,000 today. These young people have graduated from colleges to become teachers, but have had to work in other jobs. One minister says that not everyone who is a graduate has the right or the right to teach. The suffering of the teachers still waiting for the appointment has not ended, and the sound of about 300,000 teachers has not been heard in this frame. The appointment of 10,000 teachers on February 6th was only a dressing. Turkey has an enormous lack of teachers, while our state's resources are sufficient to employ staffed teachers, while in addition to those who can't, it is morally and legally unsecured to hire teachers without any guarantees. Taking out all directors with more than four years of service at the Ministry of National Education and staffing will not solve the problems of national education. I look forward to your support for our amendment proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0083par0246	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 15 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "President of the Information Processing Department" in the Framework 15 of the 562 Numbered Bill of Legislature shall be changed to "President of the Department of Investigation and Property" as well as "President of Construction and Real Estates." Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Selma River Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Plan and Budget Commission as the Council of Ministers the bill, which has been referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "International Education Act (1/884) and 562th Law Charter (Icontacts) under which there is to be amendments in Articles 2 and 22/2/2014, under which shall be proposed to the Council of Ministers as the Council of Ministers." Zühal Topcu Lütfü Türkkan Seyfettin Yılmaz Ankara Kobeeli Adana Emin Çınar Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Kastamon Kahramanmarash Ankara Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 15th Articles of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 15th Articles of the Law, in accordance with the National Education Basic Law No. 562. With all due respect. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ali Riza Özturk Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Gürkut Acar Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0084par0272	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0083par0273	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0085par0274	I'll do the talking.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0083par0275	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0085par0276	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs we're discussing have nothing to do with the logical, educational system. We're discussing a bill from a complete reaction. Just like the other laws we've taken out of the Turkish Grand National Assembly since December 17th, which contain a reactionary approach, which reflects it. The last was the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, despite all our assessments that it is contrary to the Constitution, those contradictions were accepted by being preserved as they were; they went to Mr. President. Mr. President, I've identified 15 per cent of the Constitution in 12 articles. I will examine the law. It is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (February 26th) to 11. At about 30, he approved it and sent it to the official newspaper to be published. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Law, which went from the President to the Official Gazette, was not published in the Official Gazette that day. Normally, the law will be published immediately on the day it was sent to the Official Gazette; if the regular newspaper is published in the morning, it will be published in the current Official Gazette. It wasn't published that night. We were here in negotiations; at 2:00 a.m., when I went to the Internet and looked at the Official Gazette, I saw that the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors' Law had not been published, but another law had been published. The same law was approved by the President at the same time he approved the HSYK. It wasn't published that night, and last night, at about 7:30 p.m., that law was published in yesterday's paper, so it was published after the hours were over, and we, the Republican People's Party, filed a mistrial in connection with the Constitutional Court this morning, and after we filed a mistrial case, I told the press that we had filed this case, but I was not wrong to say that in a matter of hours, Mr. Minister of Justice would appoint new officers to replace those civil servants who had ended their duties. I mean, when you say you weren't wrong, it doesn't take a normal congressman to know that. In an hour or two, the Minister of Justice made those appointments. Good luck, but it's a law that puts an end to the rule of separation. Again, another interesting development has been made today: Reza Sarraf and the children of the minister who were arrested by prosecutors for corruption and corruption investigation have been released by the court. The grounds of the court are: ▪There is no chance that criminal acts will change in the favor of suspects; there is no chance that the evidence will be collected; there is no chance that he will escape; he has a fixed residence; therefore I release these people. See, you see the state of law?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0086par0278	Of course, there's a chance that Ilker Basbug will escape.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0085par0280	But the reason for the arrest of Chief of Staff İlker Başbug, in Silivri Prison was: The possibility of blackening evidence, possible flight abroad, possible pressure against Turkish Armed Forces. For over two years, I have been innocent. He screams and no one hears this scream. The people convicted by the Silivri courts stand unjustly in prison, the sledgehammer prisoners in prison, while the Ergenekon prisoners stand unjustly in prison. Mr. Prime Minister, there are so many innocent men inside. He said, he played on consciences; he played on their consciences to provide broad support for the laws he would make to cover this bribery and corruption investigation; he makes the laws he wants, the retrial he wants; there is no hope for him; there is no hope for Balyoz prisoners; there is no hope for intellectuals, no hope for scientists; but you continue to pass lawless, unfairly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is taking Turkey to the dictatorship, taking Turkey to the one-man administration.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0087par0283	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0085par0284	But neither will the nation allow it, nor will this judgment allow it. Today, the government may achieve some apparent gains, but the judiciary will one day work with all its institutions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0087par0287	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill to the Council of Ministers, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, and a draft proposal to the Plan and Budget Commission to make changes in the 24/2/2014 meeting of some Law and 25th Law Charter on the Laws (1/884). Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0088par0296	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0087par0297	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0089par0300	Mr. President, before I speak, I'd like to draw the attention of the entire House to events in Crimea. There is a serious Russian intervention in Crimea. I would like to remind you once again that Russia's intervention in Crimea, which remains silent in Ukraine, is because of the Turks who live there, and I invite the government to be a little more sensitive about it. However, the HSYK Act was published yesterday at 1900 p.m. in the Official Gazette. It's 11 o'clock today. Mr. Secretary has made the appointment at 00. It's 14 o'clock. Riza Sarraf, the minister's life coach, and the minister's children were released at 00. Thus, in the 87 billion-euro corruption case, there are no prisoners left. Do you understand what February 28th, February 28th means today? That was February 28th. Reza's first statement was, "Come, you prosecutors, let's settle the case in the chest." He wants the chest, too. I know some of them are laughing, but I promise you, you're laughing at the way you're gonna cry. We're discussing the classroom here, go out on the street, go to the wedding, go to the funeral, go to the coffee shop, see what people are talking about. People talk about corruption, talk about theft, talk about intimidation, talk about bribery, talk about tape, talk about dollars, talk about euros. We're here to watch the congregation and the government fight rematching wars, and we're discussing the laws that come out of them. I mean, the agenda of Turkey and Parliament never meets the agenda. There is theft and corruption on Turkey's agenda, and we're talking about classrooms here. When is this law due? September 2015. While you were preparing this draft, you did not listen to all oppositions to the congregation, you did a very subtle calculation, and you said, "Let the classrooms be closed from September 2015." What is it, September 2015? There's nothing, but there's a lot. By that time, the next three elections will be over. Of course, you did the math before the congregation and the bloody knives were published, and then the account was broken. This arrangement will be forgotten, until then we will pass these elections. You said, "We won't lose the votes from the congregation." But it didn't, it didn't fit the market at home, and your plan fell into the abyss before it even began. Now, to keep the line straight, you brought this draft into the House agenda, you did what you knew best. Again, behind closed doors, you didn't consult anyone, like in the dictatorial regimes, you didn't knock on the door of the experts, you didn't think about the harms that could be done after the law. I'll tell you, after this law, teachers and staff who work in the classroom will be the victims most. It's said that there are about 4,000 classrooms, with an average of about 100 people working, you've kicked the bread of 400,000 people, 400 thousand people living in society, living on wages, adding 100,000 more to the unemployment army. You couldn't find jobs for the current unemployed, so you took away their bread. I don't see how that's an understanding. There are tens of thousands of teachers waiting to be appointed, 300,000 teachers waiting. Mr. Secretary has given us the good news that we will appoint your 40 grand. So, what about the 100,000 people who stayed here? What about the other 260,000 teachers? These people expect a new report from the Minister of National Education every day, and on the one hand, you've shut down those who have jobs. There's cancer among them, there's death, there's suicide. You're leaving 100,000 more people unemployed, without a solution to the unassigned teachers. You've added a substance to the draft to make a spectacle of it, Mr. Secretary. You said you'd put the teachers in the Ministry of National Education on a KPSS-free interview that filled six years. Do you know what it means to get this interview? I'll put my followers on the Ministry staff. But I'm telling you, you don't have a position like this; you've been in power for 12 years, you don't have a staff. You still have to apply to the nationalist staff, which has been in power for three years in 34 years. Because in this country, there are no more officers left to share in theft, lies, lies. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0090par0309	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of "President of the Information Processing Department" in the Framework 15 of the 562 Numbered Bill of Legislature shall be changed to "President of the Department of Investigation and Property" as well as "President of Construction and Real Estates." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0091par0318	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0092par0319	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0090par0320	I'm reading the reason: The relevant unit in most public institutions, particularly the Prime Minister's office, is "... It's not his apartment, it's his office. It is called the Head of the Office." The names of units related to this motion are expected to be changed in accordance with public use. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, we've finished interviewing chapter one. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part includes articles (1), (2), (3) and (4), (a), (a), (b) and (c) in the box (7) and (8) in the box. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Vahap Elector will speak on the second chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0093par0331	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I want the classrooms closed, not as a congressman, but as a father. There's no fucking education system like this.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0094par0333	It's against party policy.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0093par0334	I'll tell you, I'll tell you. On the one hand, we'll send our children to private schools for better education, the curriculum on the other hand, and the curriculum on the college exams that our kids are asked about, and we'll pay them once again, we'll send our children to school, we'll send them to school. Now, perhaps there will be a contradiction, but I will vote no on this law. It's a contradiction, a paradoxical situation. I believe in Mr. Secretary, Mr. Nabi Avcı. A person who's really into it. I'm also very appreciative of his commission work. We're a distinguished, discreet, decent, valuable minister. Let him tell me, my dear MP, that there's a problem with the education system, we've really seen it. We're making an arrangement to solve this problem of the educational system, to improve its quality. You can believe me. I'll vote yes for this arrangement, but it's not. Now, you've been in power for about 12 years, but you're impotent. Where are you impotent? Now, there's been an HSYK arrangement. You've made an HSYK arrangement to turn your twelve years of impotent power into full power. Now, in the national education system, you're doing the same thing for the same reason. See, especially since December 17th, we've been sleeping with the congregation, getting up with the congregation. Some of my fellow lawmakers are blaming us, especially in harsh debates. Yesterday, a friend of mine said to me during these discussions: "Where does the love of this congregation come from? Now, dear friends, I'm not a congregationer, I'm not a man of the biat culture. I'm an individual in this country. I'm a free citizen in this country, but if we're going to be a member of a community, if we're going to be a member of a community, if we're going to be on leave, I'm an Ataturker. But I'm not a congregationist cultist. It's a really interesting arrangement, and on the one hand, the classrooms are up, and on the other hand, there are actually significant changes to the staff. Executive staff, managers, vice principals, their duties end and assignments are being made from the day the law is in effect. So, in a sense, you're going to have to lay off the community's administrative staff or executive staff, restructure the new administrative staff with new appointments in line with your own opinion. Now, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister Uğeşta is speaking, again making evaluations on these classrooms. He says: you know, it's a matter of classrooms. Don't send them there anymore. We'll be teaching our schools on weekends. We'll pay for the supplements, even in private schools. He goes to private school, he pays, he goes to the school, he pays again, how does that work? We're always forced to ruin this game. March 30 is the date to break this game. I've done a survey, and in these twelve years and eleven and a half years, is it true what the Prime Minister says, or is there some conflicting circumstances? I looked, and the number of classrooms went up to two floors, from 2,122, to 3,961. So let's close the classrooms today. The understanding that during that time, of course, encouraged the classrooms -- if it doubles in that amount of time, there's incentive, there's support, there's a road opening -- has doubled. I'm looking at the number of students, that's natural, there's an increase in population growth or populations, but here's the number of students going from 600,000 to 1.3 million. Again, the number of teachers who teach in classrooms increased from 20,000 to 52,000. Now, my dear friends, no one, no individual, no citizen is sending their children to the school, there's trouble in the existing education system. Tomorrow, the classrooms are up, and in September 2015, we have wiped them out completely. Now, you know, he gives money, he gives money, we get rid of it, we shut down the classrooms. I mean, when you look at it in the first place, it's like a community benefit arrangement. No, it's not like that. The education system continues, the malfunctioning order continues, the malfunctioning system continues. Again, students need additional classes when they go to colleges or prepare for their high school exams. What's it gonna be this time? Parents with average income or good income will have the opportunity to teach their children, hire private teachers, invite them to their homes, teach their children a lesson. What about families with low income? They won't be able to teach because they don't have money, they don't have income. Well, isn't that against the equality of opportunity in education? What kind of a social state would that be? It's a completely conflicting situation with what's being put out there. Now, there's an arrangement in the bill for teachers who teach at the school, which is an interesting arrangement. So, we're closing the classrooms, teachers are out of work, but let's be nice to them too. Let's not put them in KPSS, like the students who graduated from other education schools. What should we do? What should we do with them? Let's give them a verbal test. I don't understand the criteria of this, is it the moustache model, the hair model, the height, the sex, the clothing, the bird. ▪ Unlike other teachers or teachers, let us give these people a staff in direct educational institutions, national education schools, and make them teachers. • This is an unfair situation. Look, there was a research motion here yesterday, to investigate the problems of the unassigned teachers by a party group. Yesterday, the preachers made some very important assessments of this, and we have fresh information. There are over 300,000 unassigned teachers. And they're still opening education schools. Recently, a college opened with a bag of laws, private university, Biruni University. I looked, what colleges do you have in this college? There's an education school. We're shouting from one side, here we are, yesterday in Sinop. Mr. Havutça just reminded me of this. Say it from the stand. A teacher's candidate killed himself. The chemistry teacher finds a job in Istanbul, works a little bit, gets unemployed, goes to his hometown, goes to his hometown, gets depressed there, gets depressed, commits suicide. It's close to 130,000, and right now, there's a teaching shortage in National Education. He expressed this during budget talks with the Minister's Plan and Budget Commission. On the one hand, you have a problem like this. So you've got 130,000 casts, you've got openings, you can't appoint teachers, you've got 300,000 unassigned teachers. On the other hand, you're making a different practice for teachers in classrooms who will be exposed to more than 50,000. That's an unfair approach. The problems of education in Turkey are too much. Look, here last year, fighting, fighting, a training system, a new understanding, 4+4+4 education system was accepted. In your time in Turkey, national education has turned into a sabbatical during the AKP administrations. Mr. Secretary, the fifth Minister. I believe there have been arrangements for national education - perhaps this 14th, 15th - important arrangement. It's a shame. Look, by ignoring Turkey's future with political arguments amongst yourselves, by interfering with the national educational system, by interfering with our children, who are the guarantees of our future, you're wasting it, you're wasting it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0095par0348	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0096par0352	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on the second part of the draft law on amendments to the National Education Basic Law, 562 rows. I salute the General Assembly. The second part of the draft law was first designed to design the process of ending their jobs, in summary, for those who run their duties in almost all executive and auditory levels of the Ministry of National Education. The government's proposal is an operation that ignores the failures, problems and crises that can be born in education, as well as directly supporting public resources and private schools through the closure of classrooms. Dear lawmakers have changed the Executive Admissions Act several times during the 12-year rule of the EC PARTY since 2002. These regulation changes have always been specific to the individual, special to the staff, and many of the appointments conducted with these regulations have been carried out by the directives of unions known to the government, the AK PARTI district and county agencies. Mr. President, after the 17th December process, the power struggle with the end of some of the 12-year partnerships has also spread to the National Ministry of Education. Under the arrangement of this bill, all vice principals and vice principals who have completed four years in schools will be terminated. With the new arrangement, the manager and manager will appoint their half-timers as governors for four years. Thus, the current government will make controversial executive appointments in all schools again. Thus, teachers, students, parents, and therefore the future and quality of the educational system will not be considered. These new appointments will also increase gender inequality in current executive staffs. Despite the number of women staff members of the Ministry of National Education, the number of women is only 18 per cent. With this new arrangement, male governors will choose male executives to increase the gender inequality that exists. Dear lawmakers, executive staffs in the national educational body have been transformed into one of the arenas in which the political rant fight took place. In the context of democratisation and localisation of education, all administrators must be chosen according to procedure and basis, which will be determined by all components of schools and other institutions, from the principal of the school to the county director of education. The regulations and relevant guidelines for the appointment and replacements of educational institutions during the EC PARTY rule have been changed almost every year. There's still no system sitting on it. This term was appointed solely by interviewing managers, and then only the test conditions were given, and then the oral examination requirements were given; rotations were introduced to managers, and then they were abandoned, and then they were forced to re-orient. Dear lawmakers, despite all the games that have been made for political staffing so far, it is not acceptable for the governors to rule out the rights earned by educational executives who have passed over 100,000 in this new arrangement and to have the authority left entirely to the governors. Teaching is the main thing in education. This administration should not be viewed as a position that puts pressure on the education workers. Those who will perform these tasks must be elected for a period of time with the participation of all components of the relevant unit. Mr. President, in the second part of the bill, one of the most valuable lawmakers has been given the opportunity to be an inspector for all those who have no degree in education or have no pedagogic formations, no knowledge, no knowledge of the teaching profession, no savings and no experience, so that the government's proposal will open the way for teachers and executives who complete chapters such as theology, chemistry, business, statistics, education, no knowledge of education, no experience, and under what circumstances will be appointed as assistant inspectors who have given their years to the teaching profession. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers should be chosen by a method that meets the principles of truth, transparency, fair and accountability among teachers who have certain knowledge, savings, or experience in the field, but such guidance and control can have a real boost to the quality of education; otherwise, it will not function more than as an antidemocratic pressure tool on educational workers. Dear lawmakers, another provision envisioned by the draft law is related to the Board of Education and Discipline. Since it was founded, the Board of Education has worked as a guardianship institution. The chairman of the Board of Education has played a role in the reconstruction of official ideology over the years through education. In this sense, it is clear that the current chairman of the Board of Education and Education has been the biggest obstacle to the study of a scientific, qualified and liberal education curriculum so far. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that while the bill narrows the powers of the President of the Education and Discipline Board, it will increase by implementing a more central policy based directly on the Minister's approval, by implementing a more central policy within the education system. In this sense, the proposed change has already become a problem area where the President of the Education Discipline and Board, by the hand of the Minister, enters the hegemony of political power. This board, which directs the country's education curriculum, should be formed in a pluralistic structure and must be transformed into a structure of educational components, educational scientists, teachers, trade union representatives, students and parents. The Board of Training and Discipline should not interfere with what the teacher will do in the classroom. This board must establish general pedagogic principles and create a framework. This board should also prepare curriculums and textbooks in accordance with Turkey's multicultural structure and work along with local components at these phases. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the 21st article of the bill is being introduced to new regulations for teachers who will be assigned abroad. With these regulations, the basic conditions sought for abroad teaching are being lifted and the possibility of contractual employment for those living abroad. Thus, this arrangement will eliminate assignments abroad, which are a source of motivation for teachers in Turkey, allowing them to recognise education systems in other countries. In addition, the appointment of teachers abroad is already wrong, while the fact that they are contractarily employed reveals the view of education by the EC PARTY. Mr. President, valued lawmakers continue subcontracting the AK PARTI ruling under the name of "contracted teacher." The EC PARTI administration viewed teaching as a profession that anyone could do during the 12 years, although there were 180,000 teachers short, 300,000 non-graduate candidates have continued to practice slave labor under the name of the prize teacher. This offer is a new manifestation of the government's business view of education, envisioning the appointment of a contract teacher with low wages and flexible employment policy abroad. Dear lawmakers, the social state is primarily responsible for establishing the principles accepted by the modern world without discrimination, providing the opportunity to receive free, decent and hygienic education and free education in the native language. Secondly, the Ministry of Social State and therefore the Ministry of Education has to act objectively and objectively as they prepare textbooks and curriculums at the point of directioning the content of education, as they refer to universal human values and gains, free of hate speech and non-national beliefs, ethnic identity, gender identities. Third, the social government has to stay away from populist approaches that try to save the day. Dear lawmakers, fourthly, a social and legal state must conduct the process of deployment of teachers, administrators and supervisors, with the most fair selection of the principle of integrity as far as possible. However, as such, the social state has been able to fulfill its responsibilities in education, and in parallel with that, citizen satisfaction can be increased, and it can be talked about gaining quality in education. With these feelings, I salute you all again, with respect.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0097par0371	Thank you. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0098par0375	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I have taken a pledge on the second chapter of Law 562. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, this bill is a bill that victimises education workers. This bill is a bill that punishes school principals, county and national education directors and assistants. This bill is a bill that keeps 50 of its financial inspectors at the center, but separates the others from their children, which has the potential to get them to leave their homes and send them to the provinces, a bill that disrupts family integrity and disbands family. This bill is a bill that makes the branch managers who make up the backbone of national education with rank. It is a bill that renders them dysfunctional. This bill is a bill that sets up the entire Ministry bureaucracy like a ligature, except for the Minister, Undersecretary, and Chairman of the Education Discipline Board. This bill is a bill that ignores savings, experience, merit and driver's license, and even punishes them. This bill is a bill that undermines institutionalism in education. There's a bill that we're talking about that's a problem in every way. This bill is far more than just a bill to redesign education or to adopt a new form of education. This bill is a bill that envisions a total genocide of governance of education with persecution. This bill is also a bill that betrays its own memory. This bill was written with a motive for reckoning, revenge, punishment, and closure. For this reason, it contains punishing, banishing, and destructive provisions of its rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to read you a fax I just received from this bench. He is a national education director who suffers from the fax, says: "Mr. Deputy, what did the national education managers who served under difficult circumstances, who were responsible for many people such as the governor, the governor, the ministry, and who, under their pressure, were subjected to such punishment? Why are managers who represent the National Ministry of Education in the provinces and districts being pushed away, taking great risks, implementing every decision made by the National Ministry of Education again, facing all kinds of challenges in the country? First, the letter of the law sent to parliament must be passed by the state, the district national education managers and assistants who terminate their duties, and then, in accordance with the procedure, the executives must be requested and then replaced according to the term of their work, he says. Minister, I'm asking the question asked by the director of national education: what did the director of national education and the principals do that he's being severely punished and deposed? We crush them and terminate them. How does that make sense? Why are such atrocities being practiced? This needs to be explained very loudly. Another letter came from a principal. And he says that some of the arrangements that have been being made for some time in a row under the government's excuse to fight the parallel structure have become a victim of us education, who have served this beautiful country with honor and honor for years. We view these practices as an ill-advised understanding of governance that knocks down everything that comes along like an elephant in a zucchini shop. Our current authorities are asked to be suspended by those who are equal to those who have no reasonable measure by the same blind administration, who have won the exams of the National Ministry of Education, and who have been acting as vice principal, vice principal according to all the criteria set by them. We never accept an understanding that restricts our rights by four years, and also by the name of the commission, and completely takes them away from us. Only national education directors, school principals, assistants; branch managers, educational experts, inspectors, ministry bureaucrats, all national education workers seek the answers to why they are being victimised from the Ministry. Did you pick up the managers at the labor market so we can send them right back to where they came from? Is principalship as worthless as a fruit from a titri grocery store? How can the responsibility, authority and savings of these school principals, executives, national education directors, and assistants be ignored in a pen? How do you explain that? This was made during Mao in China, wholesale, wholesale... are we making a new culture revolution? I mean, how do you get mad at fleas and light a quilt? Now that you've upset their morale, now that you've upset their psychology, there's no answer to their wives, their children, their students. I don't know why I'm being relieved of duty. The Minister has brought a law, this law has been applied to everyone, and we have been dismissed on this occasion. How clear is he going to find an expression? I'd like to draw your attention to that in particular. Besides, this upset morale, Minister, I wonder if your time will be enough to correct it, that's another matter. So it's easy to break down, easy to get, easy to punish, but it's hard to do, win, and get into the system. I'm stressing that eradicating and ignoring the savings of the years in a pen is not fit for any mind, no moral, no human value. With this bill, the Ministry of National Education is clearly becoming the backyard of the Justice and Development Party. This bill will be entrusted to AKP executives or AKP Tandans. No matter what anyone says, sir, we're not going to do it, we're going to... It's all stories. In the provinces and counties today, everyone is waiting for the results of this bill, and they're going to get a little bit more necked, a little bit more buttoned up, a little bit more effort to get behind the mayors and districts there, and the Ministry bureaucracy will become a full AKP bureaucracy after this bill. On the day of this bill, all AKP districts and district buildings will be filled with those who want to become school principals, assistants, national education directors and assistants. We're more AKP people, we're more of a service, we're more of a subjugator. People who say, "We're going to be active and dominant in national education." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now discussing the plot to assassinate national education. This bill has wiped out the motivation, psychology, and excitement of national education workers. After the announcement of the bill, all workers from the top of the national education to the bottom have become depressed and anxious. While the Ministry of National Education should give its employees excitement, hope, and trust, the ministry approves the persecution, dismissal and exile. It resets the memory of national education; it is a bill that punishes literature, driver's license, expertise, institutionalism and experience. This bill has been brought to our attention by an understanding that victimizes employees, punishes success, underestimates management experience. Dear lawmakers, a power that has been in office for 12 years has changed countless ministers for 12 years. Each minister, according to him, predicted a ministry and an educational system. This mentality is considered a national education as a cadaver that can be saved in any way. Such mentality, such as this, which, under a bill, democcratized all school principals and national education directors, is impossible to say. He was in the army, making mistakes in a group of 60 in the army, or in a company, one in the company, and the commander commanded: "Stiquet Yamantepe, spread out, march." The same thing is at stake here. I mean, someone's paralleled, someone's rotten, someone's rotten in office; to eliminate them, you've all been relieved of duty to all national education directors. Dear lawmakers, it's unbelievable that education is so superficialized, so trivialized. Hobbes: The power that makes man fit for society is not nature, but education. He says, "Without law, justice and society, man would be worse than all animals. " It's very important for the individual to gain identity, personality, and personality, so that the government can provide training for its citizens... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...but that requires justice above all else. What's done here is injustice, injustice, lawlessness, violation of the Constitution, and therefore it's in the best interest of all of us to review it again with the following motions, and I give you all respect.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0099par0394	Thank you. Mr. Tülay Bakır will now speak on behalf of him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0100par0398	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second chapter of the National Education Basic Law, 562 rows. I salute you all. In my speech, I'm going to talk about some matters related to her foreign education. As of December 2010, a total of 22,383 students who have gone abroad for education have a special student, 1.771. 58% of these students are educated in science, 42 per cent in social sciences. 1.771 students with an official scholarship were sent to study the language. There are no graduate students. 64 per cent of the remaining students have gone abroad for a master's degree and 36 per cent for a doctorate. Of the 22,383 students who are studying abroad, 20,612% are private students. The number of students who go to study languages is outside this issue. 80 per cent of private students had gone for a license, 14 per cent for a master's degree, 6 per cent for a PhD. The proportion of students who go to grad school and doctorates is far behind in the percentage of students on official scholarships, but the number is several times higher than the number of scholarship students. I don't know what colleges and grad schooling students have been studying abroad. The remaining 12,049 students have gone to countries with lower tuition rates, while 8.563 of the students who have gone abroad are in the leading seven countries. 93 per cent of these 12,049 students have gone for a license, 5 per cent for a master's degree, 2 per cent for a Ph.D., and the number of girls is scarce. When we look at seven leading countries in higher education -- the United States, Germany, Britain, France, Canada, Italy and Japan -- and their distributions in education, 61 per cent of the students are shown to have a license, 28 per cent have a master's degree, and 11 per cent have had doctoral training. A total of 134 students from Japan receive 45 per cent of doctoral education, while in other countries, the proportion ranges between 4 per cent and 19 per cent. The total number of girls taught in seven leading countries is 410. The number of female students who have received a doctorate is 36. The lack of female students is probably due to their parents' reservations. After graduating from college 40 years ago, despite winning the scholarship exam in the United States, my father did not allow me to go to his doctorate because he thought I would face financial difficulties, and I got my Ph.D. in Turkey. When we briefly evaluate the number of students in our country, undergraduate and grad schooling, there are 2 million students who have studied in open education as of 2013, 2 million 256,852. This year, the number of new registration applications is 213,486. The high difference between the two suggests that the students were in no hurry to complete their education. The number of students in regular education or face - to - face education is 2 million, 22,867. They're top-notch grad students. The degree rate is 11 per cent and the degree rate is 3 per cent. The difference between pre-license, grad school, and PhD education is very small. The number of formal and private students who receive a doctorate abroad is 1,715. The number of PhD students in our country is 59,763, or 35 times greater. It's very difficult to get accessories for education in major foreign education countries and the top ten universities here. In particular, European countries prefer their own citizens to students of European Union member states in the second place. The following day, his family's donation to Oxford University allowed this university to approach students from Turkey with more tolerance. I think it would be more advantageous for our universities to be supported in primary science and especially doctoral education than for the opening of new private and foundation universities in our country. I salute you all with my wish that all grandmothers in our country will have a Ph.D. in the future.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0101par0407	Thank you. On behalf of him, Mr. Murat Yıldırım, the other speaker is Çorum MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0102par0411	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the second part of the law that has made significant changes in our educational system. I salute your committee. I want to speak as a teacher. I've had a school since 1990. The classrooms were really needed in the past tense. At that time, students were taught test techniques in parallel with the school curriculum, and 70 percent of our students were successful. In time, six classrooms have increased, and the teacher's model in both the school and the school has improved. Some teachers referred students to the classroom, becoming secret school partners. With the conditions of February 28th, the Ministry of National Education's upper administration... was emptied of the school curriculum at this time, and the curriculum was rendered inoperable. With or without schools, the classrooms were built to be built into structures. The idea that without the school, the university would not be earned was almost untouchable to the public's mind. Any opposition lobby has been activated against anyone who wants to touch this project of February 28th. Mr. President, the current structure of our children has begun to run like racehorses from elementary school to college. It's a building that destroys childhood, prevents our children from running and playing, which takes away weekends. Some classrooms are unfortunately victims of teachers, teachers are not insured. Most of the time, even low wages aren't paid. Students, teachers and parents from this system are victims. Along with the students, most parents go to school on weekends and destroy holidays. Today, an important part of the generation that is under 30 years of age in college, without knowing the end of the week, unable to live up to its childhood, was brought up as a generation that was far away from the game, drowned in tests, lost in social skills. This understanding makes society nervous, creates unhappy people. None of us has the right to live this injustice to this community any longer. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, it's not the classrooms, it's the future of the nation. A memorizing generation that knows test technique is of no use to this country. Even if I own a classroom, I have to think about people coming before me. We need to develop a youth who participates in social and cultural activities, is at the highest level in his school, free of memorisation, self-expression, thinking, questioning, inventing, able to prepare himself for the Olympics. Our educational system must be restored to an order that walks with society itself, that is rescued from within four walls, that is approaching life. With this arrangement, a new door opens without anyone being victimized while the classrooms are closed. The transformation process is supported by serious incentives. At this point, the project to promote private schools is an important project that will mark the future of this country. The state must slowly withdraw from school, from investment. The private sector should do this and the government should buy services from them. The law provides serious incentives in this area. The deadlines are also sufficient for transformation. Both promoting existing private schools and encouraging new ones. As someone in the industry, I see that with these incentives, the industry will be very comfortable. The quality of public schools, which have been reduced by private schools, will also be increased, and the equality of opportunity will be widespread. When our Prime Minister announces that he will receive 10,000 students to private schools in the early years of our rule, it is wise to remind him of the stances of Republican People's Party and so on. If that day hadn't been opposed to that project, today, this transformation would have already happened. Mr. Secretary, it's perfectly normal that the parallel structure is opposed to the conversion of syllabus. Because they're losing both human resources and money. This building is being paid by students as well as by poor students, and we are opening schools abroad. They are collecting money from our nation. Now, they're screaming that their wheels will fall down, their resources will be drained. I say that those who oppose the law should realize that they're doing business for the benefit of the parallel structure, for the harm of the nation, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0103par0420	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0104par0421	Mr. President, the speaker has made a mockery of the Republican People's Party, sir. He said the Republican People's Party opposes specific projects along with dictatorships. I want word from you because of this completely untrue statement.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0103par0422	Here, I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0104par0426	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, it's an extremely unrealistic statement. I mean, you have to look at what you're doing, see what you're doing. Until yesterday, it was you who put these classrooms up, blessed them. During your time, from 2002 to 2013, the number of classrooms doubled, and the number of students in the classrooms doubled. So, we're both against the classrooms. You're going to say, "We're going to remove them from this system." You're going to say, "We're going to increase the number twice as much in your twelve years of power." And now you're going to go out, and you're going to say, Dershanes aren't useful in this system, they're harmful, we're going to remove it. Look, in the Republican People's Party training programme, there is an equal opportunity for all students who live within the borders of the Republic of Turkey. So whether he reads in Şırnak, whether he reads in İstanbul, or reads in Levent, Istanbul, or goes to school in Sultanbeyli, there is an equal opportunity in education for all students. All parents' children are entitled to good education, a human right. Did you give him that right? I'm closing the school. You say. Of course, there are no classrooms in an ideal system. The cause of the classroom is the inability of the national educational system. In a system based on competition, you've ruined children for years, changing systems every year. Now there's no improvement in this system, you say you're taking down the classroom. I wish you'd been able to get some of the CHP's programs.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0105par0427	You've had your chance.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0104par0428	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0106par0430	Thank you. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. Our time is 15 minutes, we'll use that time fifty-fifty. There are lawmakers entering the system. Now, I'll make a promise to them in order. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0107par0436	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, yesterday, following a motion to investigate unassigned teachers, many of our unassigned teachers are looking for us. Do you have a study of the solution to this system, the organisation of education schools, and the immediate removal of these victims? Second question: there's rumors of an appointment in March, and he keeps asking about candidates for teachers. Is there a new appointment scheduled for March? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0108par0440	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0109par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as a member of the Council of Ministers, I'm asking. A telephone call was made by Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan, with Haberturk Editor-in-Chief Fatih Saraç. We're running the House at night so the public won't hear. You're transmitting. What kind of a thing is that? So the House is being censored. You're being cruel by making us work till morning. Perhaps if those hiding from you at night in the Assembly made the program, a television show would set a record for viewing. You have made this House the Prime Minister's servant. Parliament, not the government, is overseeing the Prime Minister's Assembly. Do you intend to give that up, Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0110par0444	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0111par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, a teacher who just committed suicide in Sinop....has troubled our hearts. Our unauthorised teachers are committing suicide. What is the capacity of our teaching institutions and universities today? How many unaccounted teachers are waiting in line? What scientific criteria does it take to raise teachers over the amount we can't employ? Gene, do you plan to combine both of them, or do you plan to improve the autonomy rights of the county inspectors, who serve in the provinces under the name of the county magistrates, by bringing our ministry to the level of education and social rights of the auditors? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0112par0449	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0113par0450	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it is known to everyone that there are about 150,000 teacher deficits, and you know it. Gene, you know that education is very important for the future of a society. It's impossible for a country, a society, a state to develop that can't solve the problem of education. What's the reason you can't fix the teacher's gap with all this in the middle? Can you enlighten the community on this? If you want to give an example of budget numbers or give a reason, you can address the education problem with the grant of a bridge. The problem of education is a problem that cannot be postponed. Can you give us an enlightening, enlightening knowledge of this? Is there any particular reason why the teacher's gap hasn't been fixed? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0114par0453	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0115par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, by making the classrooms a problem for your ideological and political interests, you've opened a war against them -- as a front -- and you're in the national education with this as an executive liquidation, and you're privatizing national education. My question is, will these changes solve the basic needs of schools, such as cleaning, warming? No more money from the citizen? You give them textbooks, but you plant fig trees in the family's stove under the name of the helpful book, called the magazine, will you give up this practice? Are you going to solve the building problem after this law comes out? Will you be able to put soap in the toilets? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0116par0458	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0117par0459	Thank you. I'd like to present to you a survey conducted throughout Turkey. This poll isn't like any other poll, not one of those election polls that's been manipulated. I'd like to tell you about the survey of the teachers who can't be assigned. Now that all of Turkey knows, there are 300,000 unassigned teachers across Turkey. They ask, "Do you intend to commit suicide if you cannot be identified by polling 1,127 of these teachers? It's very sad, but 38 percent of the young people who have finished education are answering that question. One of the students surveyed in Malatya, my constituency, considers suicide. That's where you get the training. Is there any study you'd like to do about it? Do you think you can solve the problems of unregistered teachers?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0118par0462	Dear Silver...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0119par0463	We know that closing the classrooms is a political decision. We understand that, and everybody knows that. In the 12th year of your rule, you tried to shut down the classrooms, and you want to do so. Now, if these classrooms want to get into school, do you have a strategy for that? Of course, you give support to those who want to get into school, but do you think at a certain rate about what these classrooms have in particular about the congregation, or do you have a clear strategy? If it's considered a political decision, which we understand from other statements. If it is a political decision, will you have a strategy for the congregations or for nearby schools? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0118par0465	Mr. Tüykara...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0120par0466	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I want to thank you very much for saving our children from the burden of the classrooms. However, does it bother you, by the way, that some private classrooms and some private schools drop out and our children -- only Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- become blasphemed? Do you intend to take precautions against the abuse of our children? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0121par0469	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0122par0470	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my second question will be, you know, in the local elections on March 30th, the building heads are assigned to the schools, and for that, lists are asked by the election board. Although some school principals want to be building managers, they are not made building managers, but other people are being assigned at the request of the district or county national educational director. When this is tampered with, sir, we've been instructed to do so, and that's who will be in charge of this school. It's called. Do you, by any chance, know anything about this? Does the county national education director or county director have the authority to appoint, appoint, recommend? Why did you need this? Because there's a critical election going on, and you know the importance of school administrators is huge. And I'm wondering if you've ever been able to stoop so low. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0123par0474	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of the education faculty of Mr. Havutça... is being carried out in our Teacher's Strategy Document and also according to the results of the Teacher's Labor Projects Work, the capacity of education faculty and the efforts to determine the capacity of education schools for which teachers we need in the next ten minimum years. When we announce our Teacher's Strategy Document, we'll be sharing the infrastructure with the public. Do you have a March appointment? (I especially thank you for this question because there is a serious confusion in public about it. The bottom line is that after June, due to new KPSS exams and field exams in July, the exams in July will be closed in June, the exams will be held in July, and we will appoint 40,000 candidates of teachers in August, hopefully. I mean, there's no appointment in March. We've made 10,000 appointments in January in different areas, after the KPSS exams in July, we'll make 40,000 appointments in August, I hope.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0125par0479	Will the winners of the KPSS take the exam again, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0480	Of course, because it lasts a year. So, after the exams in July, based on the results of the July exams, we're going to make an appointment in August, but we're going to make 40,000 appointments in August. Now, friends, last night has been discussed here, and even some of our fellow physicians have made inappropriate statements about our daughter who committed suicide in Sinop. It's inappropriate for a few reasons: One, there's a very painful, human incident, a suicide. See, even in media, media ethics, suicides don't appear as much as possible. Because, in certain types of diseases, suicide is assumed to have triggering effects on people with certain mental problems, and in the media, responsible media reports of suicide are not seen or seen as little as possible. Now we're discussing education, and he's already been a teacher in a classroom... and I've told our fellow lawmakers here in private the details of this suicide. And I don't want to talk about it in public because I think of it as an attack on personality rights, once in a while. But please... This is the poll Mr. Agababa, which Mr. Agababa was talking about. I mean, it's inhumane. Are you planning to commit suicide if you are not appointed? It is unprofessional to ask young people questions. There are physicians among us, let them speak. Is that even possible? Of course, we have a lot of unemployed friends, and they have problems. But do you plan to commit suicide if this problem is not solved? And this poll, this kind of poll, is it brought here as if it were a scientific survey?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0126par0484	You guys figure it out. Isn't that a lie, or did the teachers not commit suicide? Nearly 50 teachers committed suicide.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0485	Suicide... look, we have physician friends in the Republican People's Party Group. Please consult with them. Do you think it's right to talk about things like that? Then if you're asking questions again, then I'll give you the answer. Look, this, especially the principal, the vice principal, the manager, the manager's arrangement, my first presentation speech, my speech on the commission, and my statement. Here's the bottom line: there are two kinds of laws in law enforcement, two conflicts between the school manager -- including the principals -- in our regulations. One is that the Constitutional Court has adopted the Act of State Officers No. 657 referring to its Law, which is temporary assignment, which is not a staff issue, which means they are subject to the legislation for deployment. In response, some administrative courts... not all administrative courts... because some administrative courts have decided on the basis of the Constitutional Court, some of which are based on a court of staff. So, we write to the law with this arrangement that, as stated by the Supreme Court's chamber, that it is the task, that it is the teaching of the subject, that it is the vice principal, that it is the second task, like the deanship of universities, that it is the second task status, and that they should be able to return to their primary duties after a period of time, and that they should return to their original duties. Now, once we have established this general rule, to implement this rule, their duties will be terminated as of the end of the 2013-2014 training-school year. • It means to establish the legal basis for this rule, but we will remove or remove all 16 thousand of our principals from their jobs by the end of the 2013-2014 education year, or we will replace them with 16,000 new principals. It does not mean that we will appoint 16,000 new directors. I explained it in the Commission, and I explained it to our friends in our one-on-one meetings, and I explained it to our fellow commissioners. In fact, here, now -- I think even politically incorrectly -- our populism friends know it's the real thing, they know it's the way it is.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0127par0488	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0489	Look, you're doing the wrong populism politically.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0127par0490	No, no.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0491	When you're playing with principals, you're giving up teachers; you're making a mistake.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0127par0492	You're lowering such authority from the moment you get it; it's unacceptable, it's unacceptable.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0493	No.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0128par0494	Let's not talk mutually, please. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0496	Thus, managers, vice principals, along with 16,000 managers and others -- some 39,000 -- will continue their duties knowing that they are the second mission. Some of it can be changed just by looking at their performance, by looking at their professional skills. We want this authority to be in the Ministry, yes, because we can't do anything, regardless of whether it's a success or a failure. I mean, in this field, it's a man who breaks the testicle and brings the water, legally. So, with objective criteria, objective criteria, and criteria that you won't object to... look, we're actually bringing a guarantee here because according to 652...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0128par0499	Minister, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0500	I'll say one more sentence.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0128par0501	I've extended it for a minute for you. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0502	As a matter of fact, since it's an assignment, we're not in charge, but we're bringing in a guarantee.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0129par0503	Mr. Secretary, you know this is wrong, it's against management principles, so it's that kind of practice.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0128par0504	Mr. Secretary, I assume you'll give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0124par0505	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit03spe0128par0506	Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause, but before I do that, I'm going to take an hour off.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0128par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. The commission is here. The government is here. There are three motions on Article 16/A: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission shall draft a draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/01/2014: "The draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers for Education and the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws on Laws and Laws on the Constitutional Laws (1/884)" (1/02/204), under which was discussed in the 24/2/2014, shall be adopted by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission on 15/15, as the Plan and Budget Commission shall be adopted as a framework of the Constitutional Commission, and under the Act on Article 15/1/2/2014. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 16 of the 562 Order Numbered Law Bill, we propose and propose that the extension of the 15/A clause (g) to be added to Article 652 (e.g.), which is added to the Constitution (e.g.) in the Frame 16th Amendment, and to be identified according to this. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Selma River ▪ To prepare and publish technical reports and basic statistics of the examinations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose, together with the title of Article 16 of the "MADDE 15/A" section of the 16th Amendment to the Basic Law on National Education and Some Laws and Laws. Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Gürkut Acar Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0130par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0128par0031	Mr. Gürkut Acar is the MP of Antalya on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0131par0034	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 15/A of Bill 562. I salute you. The AKP's government has removed Turkey's nail, and with that out of control, everything is turned upside down, and all institutions are turned upside down. Education has been made a puzzle board. According to the minister, education legislation is being created according to the minister. There's no way we can get anything out of this for the benefit of Turkey, for the benefit of our children. And it's not gonna break the law because infrastructure is not a law. The Prime Minister was bored and did not accept a place in the rain of heaven. He began to quarrel with his teacher, who he could not fit into heaven. Now the law is passed against the law to cover up corruption, thefts, and more easily and faster liquidation. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has returned to the law factory. There's always a bag full of laws. In order to cover up corruption, theft, judges and prosecutors are directly linked to the Minister of Justice. The definition of crime and methods to uncover crime, search, seizure is being altered, and corruption is being covered up. The President approves of whatever comes his way because Turkey is screwed up. Instead of sending back the law against the Constitution, it approves by making statements in its own way. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors Act is an example. If I send the president back, they'll send him the same way. This is the confession of the law. The President says they are illegal, but they are against the Constitution, but even if I don't approve, the government reads what they know and sends it back in the same way. There's no way to accept that. If a law is unlawful, if it is against the Constitution, you will do so. It is not the President's duty to justify unlawful conduct by making statements that have no meaning or sanctions; rather, it is the abuse of the mission. This painting is clear proof of the extent of unlawful law in Turkey. There is nothing coming out of the government's vault, where the prime minister describes corruption. There is no justice from the place where he leads judges to prosecutors. It's the law of corruption, of lawlessness. The law changes the definition of corruption, theft, crime, and after these regulations, both Sarraf and his children will be evacuated, and the prison will be reset. There's no need to be a soothsayer for that. What happened? The message reached the judge and all who were captured on December 17th were evacuated. Now, in prison, they've reset, that's what it's called. Turkey now has AKP's law, AKP's judgment, AKP's justice. Turkey has law, justice, justice; it has access to AKP, Prime Minister, ministers as long as it does not touch them. In what you call a sledgehammer, you reset people's lives in Ergenekon. You've reset the prisoners for corruption. That kind of law, that kind of justice, that kind of morality? Dear friends, Turkey has now become a country where only those who oppose the poor and the Prime Minister can be judged. Turkey is a country where no one has legal security anymore. There are extraordinary conditions. They are called parallel structures, called "kumpas" and extraordinary arrangements are being made, and Turkey is being dragged into a abyss. If your framework is law, if your framework is mind and science, if your framework is not democracy and freedom, there will surely be destruction. I'd like to ask you from here, who voted unconditionally for every law: when are you going to stop? When will you be able to say no to illegalities? When will you be able to call a mistake wrong? In every situation, in every developing event, the law is that if you try to make law of corruption, you can't stop anywhere. Change the judge, change the prosecutor, not enough to change the HSYK Law, change the entire crime; not enough to change the method of investigation, search, seizure, not enough to create the law of corruption with bags of legislation. That's enough for now, the prisons have been reset for December 17th. So what happens where it's not enough? Where will you stand, my dear friends? If that is not enough, is there any guarantee that you will not pass the law, no matter what the Prime Minister says to save his ministers, his children, and your power? I don't think so. You're dragging Turkey to a cliff to cover up worldwide corruption, theft. Stop now, I say no more, I salute you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0132par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0133par0044	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit04spe0132par0045	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0132par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Anthalya MP Gürkut Acar and his friends' motion to vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 16 of the 562 Order Numbered Law Bill, we propose and propose that the extension of the 15/A clause (g) to be added to Article 652 (e.g.), which is added to the Constitution (e.g.) in the Frame 16th Amendment, and to be identified according to this. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends ▪ To prepare and publish technical reports and basic statistics of the examinations. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0134par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0132par0018	I'm reading the reason: To ensure the transparency, validity and credibility of exams, test technical reports and basic statistics must be prepared. In this technical report, the difficulty indexes of test materials should be included in the results of pilot applications, as well as all the information that should be taken on a healthy test, as well as on the basis of each test subject's options, as well as on the basis of each test article and the amount of response time given for the entire test. Technical reports on the results of central exams in Turkey are very limited in basic statistics. Therefore, the validity and credibility of the exams are hidden from public knowledge of the inequality situations that test or created by the examinations. The failure to answer questions asked to the Ministry of National Education about these information also reduces public confidence in the education system and the examinations, and the right of the community to receive information is denied. On these grounds, it aims to provide satisfying information to candidates who take the test under this motion, to ensure the transparency, validity and credibility of the exams. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission shall draft a draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/01/2014: "The draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers for Education and the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws on Laws and Laws on the Constitutional Laws (1/884)" (1/02/204), under which was discussed in the 24/2/2014, shall be adopted by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission on 15/15, as the Plan and Budget Commission shall be adopted as a framework of the Constitutional Commission, and under the Act on Article 15/1/2/2014. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0135par0031	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0132par0032	Iğdır MP Sinan Okan will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0136par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're talking about opening a staff again, another staffing clause, another self-rescue law. I salute you all. However, before we speak, I'd like to make a call, especially to the newly elected lawmakers. Mr. Secretary, you have an armed guard in the lobby of the opposition. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where you can travel without armed guards in the opposition club. As opposition MPs, we'll protect you, so don't worry, this is the National Assembly. We knew the MPs were armed inside the National Assembly, but in the last few days, your armed guards have been in the opposition lobby. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you will now evacuate 73,000 staff, especially on the staff of managers and vice principals, before the election. What are you going to do instead? You're gonna bring what's coming to you? No. With an interview, with a fabrication, you want to assign 73,000 people who are somehow close to you to the board of directors, to the executive staff, and you want to get rid of the 73,000 people you think are far away from you, but are you in charge of this field or not looking at it? These won't save you. The Ministry of National Education has already been turned into a sabbatical. If we bring in a grade average in the ministry, which ministry do you like? You can be sure that your most unsuccessful ministry is the Ministry of Education. The ministry is the Ministry of National Education, which is already underprivileged by the minister. The ministry, which should be most stable, is the Ministry of National Education, which should not be the most involved in politics. So, if you're going to have a staffing position, at least don't try it on the Ministry of National Education. If you're doing it in other ministries, other ministries that won't endanger our future generations, do it already, but don't do it in the Ministry of National Education. On the one hand, you're saying that we're good enough to lend money to the IMF; on the other hand, there's a serious lack of teachers, many schools without teachers, the lessons are wasted. Some of them you rent out in unprivileged areas, you bring the subcontractor system here, but on the other hand, there's a serious teacher out there, a teacher who can't get a job. Look, even though we're opposition MPs, there are hundreds and thousands of job demands, and that's an important part of the job requests. It's come to a point where these people have reached the point where I'd do anything. So there's a lack of teachers and there's a job-seeking candidate, and if there's nothing wrong with our economy, we need to assign them as soon as possible. While we're doing all this work, precious lawmakers, there's one thing to pay attention to. The Ministry of National Education is the ministry that will raise our next generation. The Ministry of National Education is not the ministry to be turned into a sabbatical. The teacher's suicides have been discussed here; true, seriously, our teachers are depressed, but at the same time -- I'm not talking about the problems in college -- no matter what you do, dear lawmakers, you need to have the main rule in your mind. But today, you don't work for the sake of God, and after the last evacuation, we saw that the Reza of Iran, not for the sake of God, was yours. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0137par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0138par0044	Come on!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0139par0045	Don't be ridiculous. Are you always going to be ridiculous?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0140par0046	Watch your mouth.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0141par0047	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 15/B of Article 16. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The meeting is in 562 rows, with the National Education Basic Law and the 16th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. We submit and propose that the clause 15/B (a) be changed in the following way. Yusef Halaçoğlu D. Ali Torlak Lütfu Türkkan Mehmet Şandir Sinan Okan Mehmet Günal Article: 15/B-a) Taking necessary measures by cooperating with institutions and organisations related to the Higher Education Institution to determine, develop, and effectively conduct higher education policy, strategy and purposes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 16 of "MADDE 15/B" shall be removed from the legal text of the 16th Article of the Law Bill, which shall be held at 562 rows of "National Education Basic Law and Changes to Some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the final motion read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0142par0066	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0141par0067	Mr. Gürkut Acar, the MP of Antalya, is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0143par0070	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 15/B joke of Article 16 of Law Bill 562. I salute you again. I've just tried to explain the illegalities in Turkey and their reflection in the judiciary. Now, I'd like to take a moment to study education. Now with this bill, the education system and the Ministry's organization are being turned upside down, Turkey's future is being turned upside down. The Ministry of National Education was upset on August 25, 2011, two or two and a half years ago. Closed two years ago, the General Directorate of Foreign Education and the Office of Higher Education, combined with a brilliant approach, are now being transformed into one general directorate. This is a reflection of AKP's visionary, AKP's genius. Two years ago, you're going to say "hantal structure," and you're going to shut it down, and we're going to say, "We've built an efficient and efficient structure." Two years later, you're going to reopen the general administrations that you've closed to build an efficient and efficient structure, and the same reason you're going to turn it off. It's called the AKP genius. Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. Two years ago, while the National Ministry of Education's Agency Act was being overturned, something else was done. Statements such as "Ataturk" and "Ataturk" have been erased from the National Education Act; Ataturk has been tried to be removed from the textbooks, from the legislation; Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, tried to remove the spiritual heritage from the minds, from the hearts.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0144par0074	You know he did it in the Innu. He built a lair, removed the Ataturk picture from the money, removed his photo from the government offices. You know, he did it in the Innu, he did it in the CHP.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0143par0075	Ataturk was considered a burden to the Ministry of National Education. Has it solved the problems of education, delegating Ataturk (Ataturk) from the law, expelling it from education? He won't, he won't, he won't, he won't, he won't, you'll mess up the agency again. So the problem was not Ataturk and Ataturkian, but the problems were not solved by taking Ataturk out of the law.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0144par0076	CHP and Inönu did it, you know that.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0143par0077	Your problem is not Ataturk. It's not Ataturkian.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0144par0078	You know, the head shots are in the middle.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0143par0079	I wish you could understand that it's taking my education away from intelligence and science, that the problem is that it's handing education over to cults, to congregations.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0144par0080	Who removed the portraits of Ataturk? Who took your picture out of the money? CHP lifts it, Innu raises it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0145par0081	Don't interfere with the speaker, don't interfere! For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0143par0082	Now you're in a purge again. Until yesterday, you've broken down with your friends, who you've converted to hand-hand, arm-in-arm training, who you've collaborated with to raise a religious and vindictive youth, and you've passed this law for total liquidation, but it's clear that there will be no solution by pursuing the A community and leading the B community to national education. You need to understand that in education, you can no longer get anywhere, with understanding that Ataturk would not be a common value, not a guide to intelligence and science. You need to understand that you can't get anywhere by shutting up colleges and shutting up scientists. It must now be understood that the practices that distract girls from education can not be achieved by punishing the foundations and associations that support modern education and by making religious associations have a say in education. You must realize now that you can't get anywhere with a religious, violent youth goal. The basis of education should be the Revolution of Ataturk (Ataturk) of enlightenment, the basis of education should be intelligence and science. As long as you don't do that, there's no way that education can be successful, education can be united, education can lead to a bright future, dear friends. But unfortunately, it's not enough that you're basing the first and middle school on nonsense, and now you're using cartoons to brainwash 0-6-year-olds and pass them on to these ancient, unscientific concepts until they're six years old, and to feed their minds. Don't think Turkey isn't aware of this. You're wronging our children in Turkey. My dear friends, the greatest evil that can be done to Turkey is the corruption of morality. If we can't teach our children the truth, the honesty, if we can't teach them to be moral people, there's no point in teaching them to take it out, crash it, collect it. Children today see corruption, theft, and learning to cover up corruption and theft, and see that if the strong are with them, the thieves and thieves will not be touched. This is the greatest evil that can be done to Turkey. Our children's morality, our children's sense of justice, their trust is being destroyed. I'm saying you're not only destroying today, you're destroying the future of Turkey. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0146par0088	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The meeting is in 562 rows, with the National Education Basic Law and the 16th Amendment to the Constitution of some Laws and Laws. We propose and propose that the clause 15/B (a) be changed in the following way. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Article: 15/B-a) Taking necessary measures by cooperating with institutions and organisations related to the Higher Education Institution to determine, develop, and effectively conduct higher education policy, strategy and purposes. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0147par0098	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0146par0099	Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0148par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, actually, when we look at this clause, there are two aspects. There's a board of higher education and a general manager like that. Which one of these will do what work here or coordinate? There's a serious problem coming up. As a matter of fact, what I can say here, as we can see, is that some of the programs of education and teaching at school institutions that have been ordered by this general directorate, for example, to prepare and prepare their textbooks, their training equipment and equipment, to present to the Board of Education's opinion... Now, obviously, he's been appointed by the Board of Education, and he's been given this position directly into the hands of the directorate. It's not going to have a political quality, but of course there's a controversial situation going on here. It's highly ill-advised. On the other hand, with regard to higher education, access relations and so on, all of which will be prepared by them, but the duties and responsibilities given to the Ministry of Higher Education Act 2547... then you must remove the SEC. There is a contradiction here, Minister. On the other hand, since this clause is ready, I'd like to make it very clear, Mr. Secretary, that you are a man who served in the university, and we served there. Now, first of all, there's a huge gap in professors' wages, salaries, other precedents. This has to be fixed, because you know that investigators get paid $2,200, but how are they going to do research? So let it be, where does a person who goes from Ankara to Istanbul to study in a library stay with that money? What's he gonna do, live here? If he goes abroad, how will he go? All of this needs to be considered. Secondly, there's a very serious matter again. In research, the matter of ideology is being brought up. It's a criminal procedure for ideological researchers, and it's a discipline. Now, when you say "ideology," will you determine that based on what? Whose ideology? Mine, yours? Therefore, it is not possible to accept such a thing. At the university, scientists can investigate anything, including ideology, and they need to investigate. If they don't, the country will be screwed anyway. If you don't give that autonomy, if you don't give that research autonomy, the universities won't be able to do science. You can't call these things science. So you're going to be able to sit down as a state, you're going to be able to talk to the PKK, you're going to be able to sit at the table, you're going to be able to talk about everything, but you're going to bring constraints because scientists can't investigate because of ideology. Something like this would be ridiculous. So it's not called science, it's not fit for freedom of expression, it's not fit for freedom of scientific research, so, ultimately, it doesn't fit for anything. Therefore, clearly the answer to this is: I wrote an article. My writing may be contrary to your opinion, and you can ideologically accuse me of this writing, and you can discipline me. And when you find two men, I'm done. There's no such thing as a scientist, a scientist. How's he gonna do research? So, when we call it university, it has to be open with everything, but look, colleges don't talk about anything anymore. If colleges, university scholars don't tell us their opinion about the country's progress, about the laws made in the country, about some of the events in the country, why do we need college? Let's just graduate and put them on the market after that, let them become teachers, just wait in line for teaching. Such a thing cannot be thought or done. On the other hand, I'd like to express in particular that a bill like this has come in, we're discussing something like this. Don't forget, it's been 90 years since the republic was founded, 90 years ago. Why is there a structure in this educational system, which we call "only the nationals," that is not on track? Why can't every minister who keeps coming, every government always play on it and put a proper system back on track? You don't want to be sat down on purpose? We need to think this through. And if we don't think about it sincerely, we'll never be able to find a solution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0149par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 17 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a bill that has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014: "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, shall be adopted by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission by the Council on 21 and 22/2/2014 in the 24th and 25th meeting of the Laws of the Laws. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Mustafa Erdem Alim Ik Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 17 in Article 652 in Article 17 of Section 17 of the 562 Numbered Law Bill, which is currently being discussed, in the following way. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Selma River In order to fulfil the duties assigned to the presidency, the Turkish Statistical Institution's Statistical Regional Units Classification is based on the second level, forming the Chairman of Regional Inspectors in 26 districts. Regional Inspectors' President works according to the ministry." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 17th amendment of the 17th Article of the Law shall be removed from the text. With all due respect. Celal Dinçer Nur Serter Veli Ağbaba Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0150par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0149par0144	Veli Agha will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0151par0146	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, today may be the anniversary of February 28th, when the AKP has always used its victim. The AKP has been fed and raised since February 28th for 17 years. And every time he opened his mouth, he said, February 28th, and he said, Those who couldn't resist the tanks were in power. The AKP has been crying only about February 28th for 12 years, and has been feeding on the persecutions of real victims. He has not made any arrangements for the actual victims of February 28th; for example, what have you done with Salih Mirzabeyoglu, who has been in a solitary cell for fifteen years named February 28th? What did you do about Zechariah Şengöz and Honorary Officer, who was also known as the Malatya case and who had been in prison in Malatya for many years? You've only fed and grown from it and only from it. As far as February 28th, the valued lawmakers, you acted on the logic of rematching, and you locked up anyone who opposes you. Dear lawmakers, today's situation is much worse, much darker than February 28th when we look at it from prison, and there are far greater victims. I asked a man who had served time and served time in prison during February 28th -- and I'm asking the AKP MPs to listen carefully -- and I said, "You've been convicted, you've been in jail, you've been in prison, and now you've been in prison, can you tell the difference? Mr. Deputy, look at the question you're asking. We were tried for what we did on February 28th, and now we are tried for slander for what we did not do. Dear friends, this is what it's like. Now, what we experienced today is nothing compared to the period of September 12th or the period of February 28th. When we look at February 28th, when we look at today's conditions, both our Parliament and our press are under pressure, more arrested unionists, more arrested lawyers, more arrested students, more imprisoned scientists are in prison. There's more pressure than there is February 28th, there's more persecution. So in short, yesterday's underdogs have been cruel today. Dear friends, look, two or three days ago, the National Security Council met. From 1997, we saw once again that nothing had changed since today. Whatever decisions the National Security Council has made in 1997, what did the Prime Minister's National Security Council recently decide, and what did it say? We'll investigate parallel structures, we'll investigate parallel structures. February 28th postmodern coup is what we experience today, dear friends. Dear friends, Turkey has been experiencing events that we haven't experienced since December 17th in the history of the republic, a new recording, new evidence every day. There's everything in these records, there's a businessman who swears to his people, and there's people who share the contract, and there's people who figure out what media group he's going to take for how much he's going to get, and who he's going to put in charge of which media group. It's so that if these events were in normal countries, valuable lawmakers would be knocked out of place. There is such an example in our history. Shortly after February 28th, Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz was the middleman of the sale of the daily Milliyet. Everyone knows that Mesut Yilmaz had no financial gain here, and he was tried on the Supreme Court, but when we look at today's events, dear friends, we see a much dirtier, much worse era. Look, a pool is forming. The minister who created the pool. The contractors who were fed and raised by AKP are throwing money into the pool, some of whom are $100 million, some of whom are $20 million, some of whom are saying, "Make a partner in the tender, we'll give you $150 million." They don't have any money, they don't have their father's money, they don't earn it with their hard work, they don't have people's money, poor people's money. Dear friends, all this humiliation, all this corruption, we've given up on the Prime Minister, we've given up on the minister, have you heard that only one businessman has been tried? Dear MPs, there is a shame for everyone, especially those who rule the country today. Businessman dirty, politician dirty, big businessmen, no measure of their wealth, unfortunately, the situation they face is a disaster. Dear friends, many things have been happening in the last two months, what are we doing? The country faces a situation every day, what do we do, precious MPs? Four ministers resign, the minister's children are being thrown into prison, and we're talking about other things today. Look, Turkey said the shoeboxes weren't just shoe boxes, the garment case wasn't just clothing. I'll continue with the other clause as I end my words here, but Mr. Secretary just reacted very strongly when we were talking, and I'll give you something about those suicides. I'm asking you to examine him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0152par0159	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 17 in Article 652 in Article 17 of Section 17 of the 562 Numbered Law Bill, which is currently being discussed, in the following way. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends In order to fulfil the duties assigned to the presidency, the Turkish Statistical Institution's Statistical Regional Units Classification is based on the second level, forming the Chairman of Regional Inspectors in 26 districts. Regional Inspectors' President works according to the ministry." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0153par0169	We disagree, Mr. President. Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0154par0173	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to point out that there's something unconstitutional going on here. The amendments of Article 652 are required under the Law. Well, after the decree has been issued, according to the Constitution, these decrees will immediately be transferred to their relevant commissions and discussed in the Parliament as a priority. How long has it been? It's been three years since April 2011. Well, can you change the decree with the law before you've even discussed it here, without discussing the law here?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0155par0175	It's been replaced.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0154par0176	Well, you can change it. You can trade cows for oxen, you can trade mules for oxen.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0155par0177	It's based on the jurisdictional code.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0154par0178	What the hell is going on with the majority of votes? That's not it, that's the decree, folks. There's no law.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0156par0179	Speak in a clean language, please, Mr. Speaker.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0155par0180	Yeah, but it's up to the law. There's a law of authority in the past.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0156par0181	And don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0157par0182	This is the decree, a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, not by Parliament. You can't change the law because there's no law, my friends.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0155par0183	There's a law of authority.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0157par0184	That's not the law of authority. You bring the decree according to this Constitution, you negotiate it, you translate it into the law, it's in accordance with the law, and then you bring it back and you change it. Now, I'm sorry, but your bureaucrats, your lawyers, they're confusing each other while they're doing this, you know, the way you're doing it, the way you're doing it, the way you're doing it, the technical, the legal way you're doing it, it's against the law, so that's not necessary. You don't have to waste so much time. Send them to the Council of Ministers, 20 more people sit down, make another decision, but why keep us busy until the morning! We're really starting to get involved in the funky stuff. So there's obviously a constitutional violation going on here, with a majority of votes. It's not working, guys, it's not the right way, it's not the right way in the process of law enforcement. However, a new institution, called the Head of Guidance and Control, began to be formed in all ministries. September 12th coup was the worst gift to the educational system. There are objections regarding the ECHR. We all know how to qualify for the rectory elections, how to favour them, how to discriminate between 10 per cent of the three presidential candidates and 90 per cent of the vote, and how much sides were used by the People's Court in this regard. Taking over colleges, taking over education... taking over education, taking over colleges, recruiting, you'll get nothing. When you start training to raise healthy and healthy future generations, you can only get results. If you make a decree here and try to change that with the law, you'll do the wrong thing, it's a huge mistake. I'm telling you, I'm warning you, my count isn't enough. If I had 105 MPs, I'd know how to handle them. But hopefully you'll find that we're sitting at this time with 155 MPs, not 105.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0158par0187	I understand 3-5, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0157par0188	105, 105. You'll see we're sitting 155. Next term, the main opposition, followed by the first early general election. We've had three turnouts, and we've got a good chance with the party, and we've got a clear path, and we've got a clear shot. I'll tell you this: if you're held in high esteem, you should wear medals every day! I mean, if you're taking it that way, it's okay to say it's okay! So, like Saint Nesin, if you put people in sucker proportions, you lose. Look, I'll tell you for sure, don't go there. But with this decree, I advise you to abandon the method of lawmaking.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0159par0192	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a bill that has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014: "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, shall be adopted by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission by the Council on the 24 and 22/2/2014. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0160par0198	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0159par0199	Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0161par0200	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0159par0201	Mr. Lütfu Türkkan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0162par0204	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 562th National Education Basic Law and the 17th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. The Justice and Development Party seeks to set legal frameworks for its fundamental purpose in this law, as in every law it brings power. This law will be the victim of millions of students and guardians as much as 100,000 school staff will be affected. No parent would voluntarily send their child to the school, but there's no other choice in this education system. Our national education system has gone national, and now our education system is crawling down the drain, so parents are forced to send their children to the classroom. Children have to go to the classroom to win college. In fact, the school fees are really expensive. Parents who are not in a good financial state are challenging their resources, leaving their future aside, not eating for their children's future, not drinking, slit their throats, and sending their children to the classroom. Closing the classrooms will affect the children of families who are initially in a low- and middle-income group. Because it's possible that families who are in good economic condition can, in any case, hire their children as tutors and tutors. The classrooms are the institutions that complete the information taken in schools. Our children study in a certain discipline environment in schools, but in a more comfortable environment in classrooms, they get an opportunity to learn one-on-one from teachers. Besides, there's also their test anxiety, you know. Some students who have been very successful in their school have failed their exams. And that's where the classrooms come in and improve the kids' test experience. In addition, classrooms provide scholarships, allowing the children of low-income families to receive education. Intensified and pragmatist-educating classrooms represent an important mission in Anatolia, especially in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia. You'll see that closing the classrooms will be the most profitable for terrorist organizations. There's already been a negotiation on that. We all know that this bargain was made in Oslo. The most critical clause of Oslo and the Imran agreement is officially being activated. The government will close the classrooms and shoot two birds with one stone. He will show strength against the congregation and keep his promise to the terrorist organization. The Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been publicly promised that the classrooms will be closed in Oslo. So why is the terrorist organization uncomfortable with classrooms? The reason is simple: he can't get the kids to go to school. When you're young, say: "We kneel in front of the baby killer, we close the classrooms for the PKK." To sum it up in one sentence: "The PKK wanted the PKK, its destiny partner shuts down." • Hezbollah wants the closing of the classrooms, not only the PKK, but also the intelligence departments. Hezbollah's fugitive managers told the bases that young people in the region would be left in the middle in case the classrooms were closed and that they should go to their homes and schools and take care of one-on-one. By closing the classrooms, you literally throw these children in the East and Southeast into the arms of terror. The blood of the PKK was already on your hands. You're not uncomfortable with this either, but please don't let this organization touch these children with their bloody hands. The evil of it shall be great, and you shall not be able to answer for it, neither in this world nor in the next. I ask you, as a father, to place yourself in the place of the children, the mothers, the fathers. For once, do not interfere with PKK's sneaky plans. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0163par0216	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 18: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the descriptions of the 562 Orders Numbered Bill to "Dare" in Article 18 of the Framework. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, the Council of Ministers' proposal, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which was approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, shall be adopted by the National Education, Youth and Sports, and shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission as the same as the Constitutional Commission, in the 24 and 22/2/2014, and in the 562th meeting of the Constitutional Code of Law (1/884). Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri D. Ali Torlak Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Mustafa Erdem Alim Ilk Bkent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 18 of the 18th Article of the Law Bill to be changed by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect... /02/2014 Fatma Nur Serter Celal Dinçer Tolga Çandar Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0164par0244	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0163par0245	Who will speak on the motion, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0165par0246	Mr. Tolga Chandar.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0163par0247	Mr. Tolga Chandar... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0166par0250	Mr. President, thank you. Dear lawmakers, there are two kinds of executives; one is a good manager; in any case, a manager who manages well. Even amongst his people, those who don't think the way he does, who listen to them, take their opinions, convince them if necessary, but certainly fit in with justice, who solves the matter fairly, a good ruler, in short. And there's a bad manager, who's resorting to all kinds of tricks to make his own administration difficult to perceive, who's entitled to all kinds of illegal acts, who's trying to prevent the perception of his own administration, his own administration, under any circumstances, and that's what they call the bad manager. Now...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0167par0252	CHP administration.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0166par0253	No, sir, you're really looking at the history of the CHP administration...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0167par0254	I just said it was appropriate.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0166par0255	But everything you've sold so far has been done during the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0168par0256	He doesn't have a future, so let's talk about his future.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0169par0257	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0166par0258	Anyway, the bad manager today is trying to design the judiciary, the army, the education system, all the institutions in order to prevent his own bad administration from being perceived. What's the point? Because you need to make it harder for your bad management to be perceived. Otherwise, the day of reckoning is here, and we will answer. You'll eat and eat and drink, and then when it's time for the check, I'll go talk to you on the phone for a few minutes. You'll say, "You'll slip away." No such thing, you'll answer when the day of reckoning comes. Look, my dear friends, the esteemed lawmakers, art education... look, we've been teaching art at all kinds of colleges since the beginning. You have officially removed music education from schools, art education from schools; there is no art education in schools today. You've also removed sports education, no sports training. You've already removed the philosophy, you've destroyed the thought itself. In a society, in a young people, especially when they're growing up, if you don't encourage thinking, on the contrary, you fill the thinking into a concept of the illegal, where if you eliminate the art that is so important to the development of individuals in society, who will you entrust the future to, and how you will entrust it to generations, if you ask the very question. Look, you're taking down the school boards completely. The unregistered teachers are waiting, the tragedy is already there. God rest his soul, another person has committed suicide. It hurts us, and it really hurts us, and it's a pity that sin has been waiting for those people to be appointed for a long time. I'm sure you're getting the e-mails from us. I want to marry my child. He says, he has no other demands, he has a job, he has his education. You're teaching them, you're teaching them in your schools for years, and then you're giving them your job, you're giving them a degree, you're saying it's a degree, and then I'm not giving you a diploma, I'm going to give you a test. But why did you teach them in your own education system, again, twice? Is it hard for him to manage the staff -- take as many universities as you need, graduate that much, when he graduates, when he's in school, let the young people know that his future is guaranteed? Look at all of our young people in college today -- private universities, except for some universities -- all of our young people are afraid of the future. Our young people are no longer interested in anything but their own future, which is a tragedy. Don't you ever listen to the sound of the street, dear lawmakers, don't you hear the sound of the street? How many days has it been in Istanbul, Izmir, Ankara, Burma, and many parts of Turkey, except the training unions, except for the union that operates with you, all the other unions, opposing unions -- screaming, screaming in the streets to tell you that the law on these classrooms is wrong, but you've blocked your ears so you can't hear any of them. Why? So you need to hear it, assess it, and according to this... Now, in such haste, you bring a law, three of you speak there, five of you speak here, the law is out, it's over, it's gone... There must be opinions from all parts of society. That's the good manager, Mr. Secretary, I know he's not a bad person, but as manager, we're questioning him now. It's a waste for the country, for the future, bad for the future, so God bless us, there's nothing else to say.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0170par0265	I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0171par0266	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit05spe0170par0267	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0170par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in voting on the proposals of Muğla MP Tolga Çaldar and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor, all those in denial. The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 562. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, the Council of Ministers' proposal, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which was approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, shall be adopted by the National Education, Youth and Sports, and shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission as the same as the Constitutional Commission, in the 24 and 22/2/2014, and in the 562th meeting of the Constitutional Code of Law (1/884). D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0172par0014	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0170par0015	Mr. Durmiş Ali Torlak will speak, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0173par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party regarding the 18th amendment of the current bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the basic principles and objectives of today's national educational system have been determined in the early years of our republic. This principle and its studies are determined by the laws and other legislation adopted in the early years of the republic. Other arrangements set out in the framework of the needs that have arisen over time and prepared to meet the need have led to about 90 years of Turkish national education. However, the vast majority of these laws and other legislations were not able to fill the findings of the national education system in the 1920s, in the face of developing innovations and events. On the contrary, from time to time, those findings have caused them to remain in the void. However, there have been significant developments in the world and our country over the centuries, cultural, social, political, scientific, economic and technological changes. Very serious methods have arisen in the field of education and practice, especially in social and science. New reforms have been developed in learning and teaching, in teaching, in goals and methods. Great discoveries have been made in the field of education and communication technology. That's exactly what we're seeing, and the changes can't be included in the Turkish national education system. On the other hand, as a whole, our educational system has been inadequate, especially in the face of the progress that our nation has made at some times. In many ways, our national educational system, which should be training them and preparing them for the 21st century, has been left behind in many ways, in some ways, unable to function. Today, the idea that our national education system has become an obstacle to society, regardless of training society to the 21st century because of its growing problems over the years. In such an environment, how do we move the government's far behind educational system to the 21st century? Instead of studying it, it is not understandable that the educational system should be tampered with without being able to respond to expectations. What's important and important here is that the need for classrooms is completely removed and removed. Before this is provided and our national education system is brought to a level that will respond to expectations, playing with the school system for other purposes alone will be very difficult to make up for, and will challenge the gaps and disturbances. The AKP government's decision to close the classrooms with this bill is more than a necessity, as if it were the result of a recession with the congregation. It is understood that this bill is designed only for the purpose of putting someone in a difficult position, without the Turkish education system being planned in all its phases. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that we do not see good intentions in the classrooms. Because closing the classrooms and turning them into private schools is a target set by the National Movement Party years ago, but we have always argued that the demand and orientation to the classrooms must be completed first. So, when you look at it this way, education is a process. If an excellent educational system is established, and especially in light of learning and teaching processes, education sciences and universal truths, right, efficient and quality is organised and governed in a way that will really open the way for individual, social and national development and progress. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important problems to face with this bill is that the stalemate of unemployed teachers will increase. As of July 1, 2015, at least six years in the classroom, teachers will be put on staff with no tests, no rules, just interviews, and those with torpedoes will be employed without any criteria, just because they're torpedoed. In Turkey, where some 310 thousand teachers expect to appoint, these teachers are appointed without exams, saying that there is an unexplainable arrangement that will be unfair to our teachers who are waiting for the appointment, and I look forward to your support of our motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0174par0024	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the descriptions of the 562 Orders Numbered Bill to "Dare" in Article 18 of the Framework. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0175par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0174par0034	Mr. Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0176par0036	Dear lawmakers, in our view, we see the closing of the classrooms as the most comprehensive liquidation plan in the history of public resources to special schools under the name of closure, and as the largest staffing move for all educational administrators who have found 100,000. And when we look at it this way, we think of it as an antidemocratic marketing approach. We've written this opinion to the opposition, and we've expressed it here over and over again. We also make it clear that our constituencies are among the most unsuccessful cities in the university exams. Therefore, the subject of a supply-and-request thing, the classrooms, does not stand on its own. If you can turn college exams into a fair form, that won't be necessary. But as long as there is a demand, we also open educational support homes in our local governments to meet that demand. It's kind of like a teaching center. When you look at it this way, we spend the power, the contribution of our local governments, to help our students, our young ones succeed in exams. For him, from time to time, there are certain words made in this box, in the east, in the southeast, in the southeast, that someone wants to shut down the classrooms, that he will take men from there to the mountain. As in fact, it has no lining, it does not match reality. And there's a situation where there's no opposition and explanation of any illegal organization in that region, and unfortunately, there's, like, BDP-AK PARTY cooperation here, and within that framework, they're asked to shut down these classrooms. I need to inform their friends again that an impression like that is wrong. I want to make it clear that if they fall into error and make a policy on it, they won't win anything. In fact, we have a very different approach to national education, starting with primary language education, to universities. We're very clear that the feature of education has been brought to this day by Turkey, with an understanding of a single, nationalist, racist, disparaging language, identity-defying education in the form of official ideology. So in order to achieve a modern level of education, universities must be transformed into free science nests, especially the closure of the SEC, and science must be removed from pressures, censorship, and all ideas can be freely discussed. Now, may I say to your love, does God rest in your hearts, your conscience? Do you know that the name of the road passed through the ODTÜ is the subconscious of an ideological conflict, friends, who conquered and won castles and roads and named it the 1071 Battle of Malazgirt? There's resistance in ODTÜ, there's a public thing in ODTÜ. There were options for the road as well, but here the Mayor of the Metropolitan stood up and said, "It's like he's taken over the enemy fortresses, he's conquered them, he's put a toe on his head, he's got his sword, he's got his sword, he's got the Mayor of the Metropolitan, he's got to run out of the squares, he's got the votes. The mayor of this city hasn't nailed a nail in 50 years. Oh, come on, for God's sake, that's not how local government works, that's not how elections work. Conquests... everyone knows who's winning against whom. It has not been seen that Muslims have conquered the Muslim nation, which means that one of their own nation has never conquered its own. I'd like to say that these false confrontations won't win anyone. If it had gone underground, it would have been called the freedom tunnel. It wouldn't have mattered, but I'm afraid that name... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sounds like a name for revenge.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0177par0042	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions in Article 19 that I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following articles of Section 19 of the 562 Numbered Bill of Legislatures, which are in question, be changed to "Dare" in Article 19 of the Framework. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan Selma River Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers the bill, which has been referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Code of Laws (in accordance with the Constitutional Law (1/884)," which has been discussed by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission as the Plan and Budget Commission on the 24 and 22/2/2014. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 19th Article of the Law shall be removed from the text of the 19th Amendment to the National Education Basic Law and to the Amendment of some Laws and Laws. Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serker Ali Serindağ Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0178par0067	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0177par0068	Mr. Ali Serindağ will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0179par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing an important matter today. What are we seeing? We're discussing training. Education, indeed, is an important activity in society's life, as we said before, so we need to focus on how our students will be raised, free of all anxiety. Now, first of all, in order to address the problems of education, we have to fix the teacher's deficit. Now, there are staff teachers, contract teachers, substitute teachers in Turkey; three different teachers, three different teachers raised by three different teachers. Another problem is the training of instructors, the teaching of teachers. Unfortunately, in Turkey, there is no planning or study for the training of teachers. There is no co-operation between the NGO and the Ministry of National Education. How do we know he's not cooperating? We understand the outcome. If it were collaborative, the education schools would be opened to the need, teachers would be brought up to the need, and teachers would be assigned to the need. Since these do not exist, there is no co-operation between the NGO and the Ministry of National Education. Teachers' rights... you can't make teachers work enthusiastically, you can't guarantee it, unless teachers' rights are restored. Absence rights are a whole, not just a material one. There's a matter of the appointment of training directors. If you do not appoint educational administrators among the educators who have spent years training, you will not be able to provide the desired benefit of education there. Now, Mr. Secretary says that it's actually a teaching profession, and the other one is an assignment. There's no such thing, Mr. Secretary. Although, Mr. Secretary isn't here.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0180par0078	The Minister is here.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0179par0079	Is he there? Okay. Mr. Secretary, there is no such thing. Of course, it's a teaching profession, but it's a career. That's what all civil servants do. You'll be assigned a mission, you'll pass certain levels, then you'll come to the top -- whatever's in that profession -- and then you'll retire. I mean, you know, civil service in Black Europe is a career, but not in America. Not in America, but in Black Europe. This is the system in Turkey. So what you just said, unfortunately, is not valid. Then you'll disrupt the motivation of teachers, executives. Dear friends, why is this bill here? There's no need to hide it. You brought this bill to close the classrooms, and you rushed it. The classrooms are about millions of students, and it's about the parents. So it's a big part of society. If you bring such an important topic of interest to a large part of society, you will not be doing Turkey any favors, you will unfortunately darken Turkey's future. Education is very important, pilot applications should be implemented, world examples should be studied. This was done before the mandatory uninterrupted education system was introduced, but there was no such application in the 4+4+4 system. Since the 1950s, eight years of primary education have been discussed, matured, and in the end, eight years of training have already been conducted in pilot schools, pilot areas, before the mandatory uninterrupted training has been implemented. It's just that the final decision was to be uninterrupted, but you came to power, you changed the educational system from beginning to end, you saw the damage, you went through some corrections, but it's not possible because you broke the education system from the beginning. Look, all the educators are saying that in order to succeed in education, pre-school education should be taken care of. You pushed it aside with the 4+4+4 system you brought in, sending the 5-year-old to elementary school. Look, the last thing I'm saying is, you're not gonna find a nine-year-old student anywhere in the world who finished elementary school. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0181par0085	Mr. Serindağ, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers the draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which was approved by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission as the Constitutional Commission in accordance with the 562th and 562th Law Charter, which has been discussed in 24 and 22/2/2014. Seyfettin Yilmaz (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0182par0098	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the National Education Basic Law 562 and the 19th Amendment to some Laws. I salute you all. We're here to discuss your proposal for closing the classrooms in front of us. Your education policies will be first class, we'll discuss it, I understand, but our education system, unfortunately, is crawling down the drain. In fact, I don't know if there's an educational system in our country. After all, five times in ten years, the Minister of National Education has changed. All the ministers have taken steps to change the system. Just two years ago, the 4+4+4 and 5.5-year-old app was launched, and a year later, the step back. Now I'm asking you, are students on trial boards? Isn't it a shame about those five-and-a-half-year-old mamas? A recent study has been conducted, 50 per cent of students in schools in Turkey have been found to be smoking cigarettes, 32 per cent alcohol and 9 per cent drugs. I regret this painting. Instead of trying to close the classrooms, think about how we can bring these rates down, and develop projects and programs related to them. Smart boards, tablets, handing out computers, don't grow up to be a good generation. Dear lawmakers, over 2 million students a year dream of college preparing for exams in classrooms, not to mention mid-school exams. When the government wants to close the classrooms, I am stronger at the congregation than you are. There is no more purpose than to give a message and take revenge. There is talk of teaching at public education centres. If you don't need the classrooms, why are you thinking about teaching there? You'll shut down the classrooms, turn them into private schools. What makes you think you're doing this? It's completely absurd. At a time when only 40 percent of private schools are full, who will send their children there with more money, especially when only 5 percent of the classrooms are suitable for school? Do you believe yourself in what you're doing? In a matter of the fate of millions of students, more than that, when the road is near, come back wrong. Do not make such a mistake in order to say, "I am strong in the congregation, just for the sake of stubbornness." In this country, not only do the congregation have classrooms. Schoolrooms will be closed, pirate classrooms will be opened. The classrooms will go down the stairs, it'll be hard to control. Private tutors will have explosions in the fields. Private class is gonna make the prices go crazy. Whatever your system is, as long as there's competition among students, you can't get the classrooms closed, nor can you prevent the desire to take private lessons. While you're closing the classrooms, you're opening new holding cells. Some public institutions are said to be taken into custody. If that's true, then a new major operation is at hand. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister and the members of the government if the current holding cells aren't enough. It looks like you're going to do a full operation on someone who's been hurting you a lot. Is this the new step your horror empire will take? Do you realize you're dragging this country to the Dicta state step by step? Do whatever operation you want, and you will never, ever cover up corruption on the floor. Even if you think you've been exonerated by the decision of your courts by destroying the audio recordings, by destroying the deeds, by destroying the deeds, you will not be exonerated in the courtroom and in the conscience of the nation, you will be condemned. During the last major operation, Riza Sarraf and his children arrested in the operation on December 17th were released today and fell to the media. Now, there's a fair trial here, if you say so. But all public and consciences know that the interference of the courts, the prosecutors who conducted the investigation, after the officers who carried out the operation were taken, and the acquittal of the government and the court's decision to do so, I give my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0183par0106	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following articles of Section 19 of the 562 Numbered Bill of Legislatures, which are in question, be changed to "Dare" in Article 19 of the Framework. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0184par0116	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0183par0117	I'm reading the reason: The relevant unit in most public institutions, particularly the Prime Minister's office, is "... It's not his apartment, it's his office. It is called the Head of the Office." The names of units related to this motion are expected to be changed in accordance with public use. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there are three motions in Article 20. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill to the Council of Ministers, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws under the Constitutional Laws (1/884)." Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Bulent Belen Seyfetttin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Other authors of the same motion: Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Other authors of the same motion: Pervin Buldan İdris Baluken Secret Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Altan Tan Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mahmut Tanal will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0185par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good night. In Article 20, along with Article 652, the previous oratories have spoken of it, but in order to change the law, it can only be changed by one law after it has come to Parliament as a priority and as a law in accordance with Article 91 of our Constitution, in order that it may be changed by law, otherwise it will be a matter on hold. It's against the spirit of the law to alter a suspended procedure with the law. The second thing is, of course, we've always said that this law is against the Constitution, but no one listens, so let's ask the question: Can we eliminate a private business by law? That's the way the bill is now being discussed, so it's a private business that's being eliminated by law enforcement. Then we'll go on to say, "Sir, there are schools, why should there be a classroom?" So, why would there be butchers? Moving on, there were groceries, why would there be big malls? Why can't you move the malls? We're gonna ask you one more question. So the point here is, if you're going to water something in the field, you're going to open a ark, you're going to open a path. And here we are, in order to shut down women's hairdressers, lingerie stores you don't like, which you don't like, see, brother, there's a precedent, which means -- even though private attempts prohibit Article 48th of the Constitution -- that's what we can do, that's what you really want to do. And what happens when you do that? Are we interfering with the content of those democratic fundamental rights, the core point, in Article 13 of our Constitution? We do. Is that against the principle of discretion that can be done again? It's against the principle of modesty. Well, then it will be contrary to democratic principles, it will be against the principle of measure, and it will be against the freedom of free enterprise, so how do you explain bringing it? Sir, there's a parallel structure here about the congregation. I'm sitting in front of Mr. Pestilence, and I'm saying right now: The 82nd article of the Political Party Law -- look, it's very important -- parties can't aim to discriminate amongst people for religious, religious, religious, cult, community and so on. The 82nd article of the Law of Political Parties brings this, and commands it. Does this clause cover all political parties? He's getting it. Does it include the Council of Ministers? He's getting it. Well, the Prime Minister says, the ministers say, the lawmakers say, what do they all say? ▪ We brought these classrooms to destroy this congregation. Guys, these classrooms aren't all parishioners. The 82nd article of the Political Party Law, even in the congregations, has brought this judgment for public peace, public order.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0186par0151	There's no such statement.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0185par0152	If we take the Law of Political Parties here, and we take the 48th article of our Constitution, I'll understand if you call it an extraordinary period. The Constitution has a period of suspending basic rights and freedoms in Article 119, 120, 121. In what state? Three states, Constitution 119, 120, 121. Does the current situation require this? That's not necessary. Well, if that's not what it takes, then this is really against the rules. Well, there's a fundamental principle to the law of law -- whatever procedure you're taking, you're going to have to remove the officers with that procedure. So it's the parallel principle of the process. Their dismissal is against the principle of parallelity in the process, his dismissal. Of course, it's not the Minister of Transport's profession -- rightly -- but it's also in vain, but it's also against the rule of legal security. The law requires bread and water for everyone, a necessary matter. Where there's no law, there's chaos. Where there's no law, there's no order. If order is truly to be established, the principle of the law state, the principle of legal security, the principle of measurement, the principle of not touching the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms must be shown. As far as I can see, they're not in this bill. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0187par0156	Thank you. It's the same thing as...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0185par0158	We want a sufficient number of decisions, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0188par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0187par0160	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0188par0161	For the record, I'd like to say a few words. We close the classrooms to eliminate the body. We have no such expression. We're making this arrangement to change the indexed education system for the test success. I put it on the record, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0189par0165	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0190par0166	Now, Mr. President, in this respect, Mr. President, what are we doing to improve the quality of education in schools? For example, most of the schools in Turkey right now, Dear President, are not in accordance with earthquake regulations and so on. She reads 30 or 40 students in each class. So you have to invest according to this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0188par0167	Mr. Mahmoud, I didn't tell you anything!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0189par0168	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Durmis Ali Torlak will speak on the other motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0191par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Movement Party on the 20th amendment of the current bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party has ruled this state for 12 years, and we respect that because it is a decision made by our nation. We're all aware that there's been a fight with the congregation that caused it to get such a big vote yesterday, and in that sense, there's been a reorganisation of the national education, which is why the classrooms have been shut down. We understand the closing of the classrooms in that sense, but as a sailor, I wonder why we're closing the shipyards. I mean, we closed the classrooms... is that what the Justice and Development Party is all about? Is that an understanding at the shipyards' point? Look, the shipyards did some serious work during your administration. You started this attack, I accept it, you opened us up, the Justice and Development Party opened us up, but after that, after that, people made great investments to serve their own nation in order to serve the world there. They're all alone in these investments, dear friends. Yes, Turkey caught a major crisis in 2007-2008. This may not be Turkey's crisis. Suppose so. But when you look at the world, when all the countries around the world support shipyards and sailors, unfortunately, our government, the Justice and Development Party, did not support the Turkish nation, the Turkish seaman in that sense. Dear friends, look, sailing will rise again in the coming days. He has to get up, it's the world's way of making decisions. The ships that roam the earth today are what we call one-dark ships. After 2015, all of these ships have a obligation to be double-circled, and therefore, there will be a major gap in the world, but we, as Turkish nation, as Turkish sailors and as the Justice and Development Party, unfortunately, have no preparation for this issue. In recent years, Mr. Minister Buli Yıldırım, in fact, has made a big mistake. And his biggest mistake is that he shut down the Undersecretary of Naval Affairs. So it's this: we're pulling our ideals, our desires, our existence from the world, and we're not going to claim it anymore. What the Justice and Development Party is supposed to do today is to establish the naval ministry in order for us to use our navigation in every sense -- whether it's human transportation, cargo transport, even other transportation -- to be more prominent. Look, the same goes for our fishermen. Our fishermen are in the Ministry of Agriculture today. It's being managed by three or five of our friends over there by sitting at the table. But it can be done more broadly. In today's world, when we look at shipbuilders, we, the Republic of Turkey, lack nothing of them. We're building very serious ships. Look, we're building warships. You recently made a major tender as the Justice and Development Party. Turkey will build helicopter ships for the first time, this ship to be built in Turkey. But there's a mistake: giving this ship to a shipyard is a big mistake. The shipyards are all empty today. There are more than 70, and more than 80, the number of shipyards. My heart desires that instead of giving this to a shipyard, it should be distributed to 40 shipyards piece by piece, edited later, and that would raise both the state's shipyards and its marines, and if the ship's construction time is two years, it could be reduced to maybe a year. I'd like to say in that sense, dear friends: We, the National Movement Party, think it's a necessity for sailing to take the lead. I hope the Justice and Development Party will work in that direction, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0192par0183	Thank you. Mr. Buldan, should we have the motive read on the other motion of the same nature?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0193par0185	That's the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0192par0186	Here you go. The Training Discipline Board must be a unit that must be formed by a pluralistic structure and operate in an autonomous manner. However, as earlier examples show, the Board of Education has worked as a guardianship institution. He has played a role in restoring official ideology over years of training as chairman of the Board of Education. The institution has followed a policy that determines as the center of the content of education and meets official ideology. In this sense, the chairmanship of the Board of Education is clearly the biggest obstacle to the creation of a scientific, qualified and liberal curriculum so far. On one hand, the bill narrows the powers of the Board of Education, while on the other hand, it is clear that a more central policy based on the approval of the minister will be implemented, while the imposed practices within the education system will increase. In this sense, the current change has already become a problem area, which leads to the Hegemony of political power with the minister's hand as president of the Board of Education, which has already become a problem area. The board also changes the assignment of professors in educational areas to "school members." With this change, it is sought to open the way for a lecturer from all areas that have nothing to do with education to the Board of Education. However, this board must be formed in a pluralistic structure and is the subject of educational components (educators, teachers, union representatives, student-parents, etc.). It must be transformed into a structure in which it resides. The Board of Education should not interfere with what the teacher will do in the classroom. This board must establish general pedagogic principles and create a framework. This board should also prepare curriculums and textbooks in accordance with Turkey's multicultural structure and work along with local components at these phases. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in Article 21: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the removal of the "result" clause from the Article of Article 562 of National Education, the amendment of some Laws and Laws, the "filled" of the Article 21 and the "International Common Culture Commission" in the third joke envisioned to be added to Article 31 of the Constitution, and the proposal of the "Consultional Commission" in the fifth statement. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Koca İdris Şahin Ramadan Can Mine Leuk White Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a draft bill that has been referred to the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "The draft bill adopted by the Council of Ministers, which shall be referred to in the 24/2/2/2014 by the National Education Act on Amendments in some Law and 25th meeting of the National Code of Law (1/884)," which shall be adopted in 12/02/2014 by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission on behalf of the Plan and Budget Commission on Foreign Affairs, and shall be placed in the 21 and 22/2/2014 by the Constitutional Commission on the 24/2/2014. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Bulent Belen Seyfetttin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Mustafa Erdem Alim Ik Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the Article 3 of Article 21 of Article 21 shall be removed from the text of the Article 3 of the Law, which shall be adopted by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serker Birgül Ayman Güler Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Frame 21 article of the 562 Numbered Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0194par0222	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0192par0223	I'm reading the reason: The relevant provision of the bill provides new regulations for teachers who will be assigned abroad. With these regulations, the basic conditions sought for teaching abroad are lifted and the possibility of contractual employment for those living abroad is opened. Thus, it will eliminate assignments abroad, which provide motivation for teachers in Turkey and enable them to recognise education systems in other countries. Also, the fact that those living abroad are already wrong in their position as teachers and that they are contractually employed reveals the AKP's view of education. The AKP is continuing subcontractorisation practices under the name "the contract teacher." During the 12-year period, the AKP viewed teaching as a profession that anyone could do, while hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers continued to practice paid slavery under the name of paid teachers. This offer is an example of the government's view of education, which envisions a low-paying and flexible employment policy and the appointment of a contract teacher abroad. It is essential that teaching is a profession that requires special expertise and needs to be in the forefront of the intellectual identity. The job was made to protect these conditions and rights. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the Article 3 of Article 21 of Article 21 shall be removed from the text of the Article 3 of the Law, which shall be adopted by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. Celal Dinçer (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Birgül Ayman Güler will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0195par0238	Mr. President, I have been promised the 21st Amendment of the Bill of Law, whose number is 562. Before my opinion on the matter, I'd like to share my assessment that the text we have is a statement of reckoning, a staffing and a privatisation text. Accounting, you know, even if it's not written in official texts, the AKP's reckoning with the congregation; staffing, which we'll see very clearly in Article 21; appointing executive staff directly under the direction of the government; and the third is, perhaps, the government did not approve of this, not to say that it did not say anywhere, not to read intent, but to the private schools now in which there are about 1,300 or so many private schools have been closed, there is a 25 percent added to this portfolio of private schools as well as the existing private schools. The number is small, but compared to the number of private schools today, this reckoning with the congregations will have an effect on strengthening privatisation of the national education system. So far, we've said, "The cities are inadequate." We said, "There are philanthropists and private sectors." He said, "The schools are inadequate." We said, "There are classrooms, they are complete." The government said. Now it has become clear that both the volunteer sector and the private sector are ineffective of both dorms and schools, so education can't be left to the hearts and wallets. So Turkey needs total reform in the name of social equality on the basis of the social state philosophy of the national sector. By now, the AKP regulations that have been carried out will be wiped out completely, and Turkey will have a 21st century education system. Dear lawmakers, the 21st article organises the foreign organization of the Ministry of National Education. The current sentence is a paragraph, where it is said that only the Ministry of National Education can be organised abroad, but other than that, there are no other provisions. It's probably one of the good things in the text that we have, it's good that the most basic principles of the foreign organization are put into the law. Those who will be assigned to an international organization for at least a year with four new paragraphs added to a paragraph have an obligation to work in the Ministry of National Education or universities, and they have an obligation to speak the country's official language or to speak one of its German, French, English languages. These are well-thought-out mechanisms. However, the third article states that if Turkish dialects are spoken in that country, there will be no requirement for service and language for those who will serve in that country and for those who are currently taking top positions in the Ministry of National Education. It seems that such an arrangement has been set up to allow high-level executives, who may have been at a disadvantage in language education, to have the opportunity to serve abroad. I'd like to point out that if it's going to be very limited, it's a legally inappropriate arrangement because there's an arrangement that is generally not in line with the principles of merit, that demands different features for the same job. There's a good arrangement going on here. And that is that Turkish citizens who are citizens of that country in foreign countries or who have a permanent residence and work permit have been given the opportunity to work from their place, and the principles are set here. I believe there's a good substance in our schools abroad, because it will solve employment problems and solve the problems of the foreign organization. My respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0196par0244	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, the draft bill, which was referred to by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and the 562th Law Charter (/884) under which some Laws shall be adopted in accordance with the Constitutional Code (1/02/204) under which the Constitution shall be adopted by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission as a third amendment to the Plan and Budget Commission as a non-profit, and we shall place a third amendment to the amendment period of the Law on the basis of the European Commission as a foreign language and a code. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? - We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Shandir, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0197par0256	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're talking about a really important law. We are discussing the Law of the Ministry of National Education, the Law of the Organization, and the Law of the Ministry of Education, which is very important, not today, to shape the future. So, I'd like to bring a few things to your attention. I agree with Mr. Hodja's opinion, I haven't studied the entire law, I don't know much about the details, I'm not a commissioner, but we're very accurate about something very important. In the decree issued earlier, the Ministry establishes its foreign organization. It is said, "But by this law, how to establish it, it is presented with Article 21 of this law, and it is done correctly. Dear friends, I'd like to bring to your attention a few things in this regard. First of all, we have the obligation to remain within the law when we're building a law that is very, very, very relevant to the future. I'll say two things about that. First of all, it's an agency law. That is clearly the reason for the bill. The Ministry of National Education's Missions, Staff and Organizational Building is called the Law Charter. Thus, the meeting of the Plan and Budget Commission before an organization's law has been established. It requires review of a legal obligation, but it is a default because, you know, new staffs are being assigned, new tasks are being introduced, and the impact report on how it affects budget balances needs to be discussed with the Plan and Budget Commission. I consider the fact that this law was brought here unconcerned as a legal flaw. Second: I would like to say that a decree in a law which expires in two and a half years, to replace it with a law before it comes to the General Assembly and becomes lawless, is contrary to Article 91 of the Constitution, including the 91st Amendment of the Constitution. So if we don't act legally when we're building a law, what we're doing is not legitimate, and the consequences are not legitimate, even if it's true. Dear friends, the second important thing I'd like to present to you is this: Dear friends, with this law, we place about 40,000 officials in the central and rural community on the doorstep from the moment this law is in effect, we remove them from their duties. This was an AKP classic, not only in this law, but in many laws, in the Ministry of Agriculture law, in the BDK law, in other laws, by making such laws, by rescinding the staffs and new staffs, Mr. Yeniçeri, right, so the Minister here says that even though he objects to it, in his response to yesterday's questions, he said, "What measure is there, what is there, what is there to change staff like this? What is there, but by making such laws, by canceling these kinds of staffs, by canceling the new staff, we can appoint the new staff there. Dear friends, since this has eliminated the opportunity to appeal to the administration court, this is a direct wrong, counterincident to a universal rule of law and to the 36th article of our Constitution. In the context of basic rights and freedoms, it is a basic right and freedom for people to be defendants or plaintiffs in the judiciary. It's a violation of human rights if you're in the way of the law against people going to trial. The fact that you've always done this with such a law eliminates the quality of being our most important, most valuable common denominator, the state of law. Our most important asset, our most important common denominator, is that if the laws we passed here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are against the Constitution, if we break the law that eliminates fundamental rights and freedoms, yes, politics will legalise its own policy here, but it is imperative that we do so by staying within the law, by sticking to the Constitution, otherwise its consequences are not legitimate. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A law whose legitimacy has been discussed says that Turkey is not worthy of the Grand National Assembly, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0198par0265	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. We've missed your speech, Your Honor, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the removal of the "result" clause from the Article of Article 562 of National Education, the amendment of some Laws and Laws, the "filled" of the Article 21 and the "International Common Culture Commission" in the third joke envisioned to be added to Article 31 of the Constitution, and the proposal of the "Consultional Commission" in the fifth statement. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving it proper recognition, Mr. President. Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0199par0276	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0198par0277	I'm reading the reason: In particular, in the last five years, there has been trouble providing teachers who know the language of the country to be assigned in European countries, especially in German and French-speaking countries, and cannot be provided for. In German and French-speaking countries, the number of teachers who speak English or other languages is not available, given the number of needs. In addition, it is difficult for our teachers to communicate with the school and the environment in which they serve, which does not coincide with the need for service. It is intended that those with national citizenship who have a permanent residence and work permit can be employed by the Ministry as a teacher at the municipality's contract status, as well as by those who have successfully completed their degree-level education in universities abroad, which are considered equal to Turkey or the Higher Education Board. In addition, the number of employees to be employed, their qualifications, election-style and basics, their mandates and deadlines, the termination of their duties, and other practical and essentials for the implementation of this joke are expected to be determined jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry. It has also been seen that the requirement for being in the position of a paralegal who has been sought to be assigned abroad permanently has been practically replaced by the necessity. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions in Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall be drafted into the Council of Ministers as the Council of Ministers, which has been appointed on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, "The draft bill adopted by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws under the Constitutional Laws (1/884)," which has been discussed by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission in the 24/2/2014. We offer and propose that the joke be removed from the draft text. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Mustafa Erdem Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Alim Iklut Bkent Belen Mehmet Şandir Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of the 562 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is being changed in the following way and added to Article 37 of the Law Act No. 652, (8), (8), (9) and (10). Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora "The third sentence of Article 3 of Article 37 of Article No. 22-652 of the Constitutional Court of Law, which has been cancelled in the third sentence of Article No. 22-652 of the Constitutional Court, shall be changed to the status of teachers who have filed an apology on the grounds of 'health, spouse, education and emergency apology, and have applied for the condition of the state and county orders within four months at the most.' it is redesigned in the form." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to change the "and/or" of Article 22 of Article 22 of Article 22 of "and/or" to be changed into "and" and "and" the "and" of the 5nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 4th, 5th, and 5th, in the text of the law. With all due respect... /02/2014 Fatma Nur Serter Celal Dinçer Birgül Ayman Güler Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Birgül Ayman Güler, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0200par0313	Mr. President, the more valuable lawmakers respond to the 21st article, the more the 22nd article is bad for the Republic of Turkey and the national education system. Article 37 of the National Ministry of Education Law No. 652 is referred to as Article 37, and this article states that after a written and oral administrative examination, the principals of the school and institution must be appointed as school managers according to the duration, performance, competency measures. In the amendment you bring them, you will remove the conditions of the written and oral examinations. You're predicting that this appointment will be limited to four years. In addition to principles, however, you are ending the appointment on the basis of regional service and rotation. This clearly means that the school principals of over 60,000 schools in Turkey, the vice principals of the school, will be relieved of their duties, and you do not submit to any examinations of those who will be appointed to their place. Apart from the exam, you're not looking for service time, performance and qualifications. In service, you also remove regional service and rotational basis. According to this, you are envisioning a mass appointment to school and institutional directorates with no strings attached in the first hand to the 40,000 school principalships. My fellow teachers know, and those who are not teachers know from school lines; each school is a separate world, especially when it comes to elementary school and secondary school, its undisputable leader is the principal of the school. If you put an end to the work of those who have done so much of this scale and so much suffering with a law that was suddenly removed from here, you will create a wave of political pressure from the principal to his assistants, his servants, his students, and their families. That's not true; maybe that's true as the government's political agenda, I don't know about that, but we're obliged to think about the interests of the government, not the interests of the government on this stand -- you, like us -- of the interests of the country. In addition to the principals of schools and institutions, this article envisions an arrangement called "proje schools." All of the appointments for teachers and administrators will be made directly by the minister. After a while, many school principals will make a tremendous effort to withstand a project and will gradually expand away from the purpose of project schools, and privileged teachers of these schools, privileged school administrators, will become a major problem for the national educational community. I don't feel it's necessary to say anything about other provisions here. In the Atama system, you also remove the school manager, the director of the institution, as well as the length of service, performance and competency for the county national education director, the district national education director. So the building blocks of the national education community are politicizing, while at the same time, the district and county managers, the borough administrative assistants, all of which you are also disassociating from the service period, performance and competence measures; you are making the area service independent of the rotation basis; you are only predicting the service period. This is really putting grass in the bell of the national education system, and the government won't do any good. The withdrawal of this clause is extremely important for Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0201par0319	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first joke of the 562 Numbered Bill of Laws, which is being changed in the following way and added to Article 37 of the Law Act No. 652, (8), (8), (9) and (10). Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends "The third sentence of Article 3 of Article 37 of Article No. 22-652 of the Constitutional Court of Law, which has been cancelled in the third sentence of Article No. 22-652 of the Constitutional Court, shall be changed to the status of teachers who have filed an apology on the grounds of 'health, spouse, education and emergency apology, and have applied for the condition of the state and county orders within four months at the most.' it is redesigned in the form." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason: One of the biggest problems that teachers experience in Turkey is the failure to meet the demand for a change of venue in health, spouse, education or emergency apology situations. For the past three years, the AKP has ruled out the study situation among autonomous groups. Teachers have been prevented from getting a master's degree in their field and thus becoming more qualified. He has taken away the rights of teachers to be appointed to the county and county. Co-ordinating has been a source of total victimism. Today, tens of thousands of teachers strive to perform their professions, struggling with a thousand challenges, with their family integrity corrupted. As a result of this practice by the Ministry of National Education, which has also uncovered an unconstitutional situation, thousands of teachers have acted in front of the ministry building for days. The ministry does not make these changes on the basis of the norm staff situation, but it produces palliative solutions that create new victims, such as change in area when political and social pressure increases. The ministry must immediately abandon the method and methodology that victimises the student, such as the mandatory service application of the changes to the ministry, the exchange of the apology group, which includes a limited number of teachers, once or twice a year. In particular, the MEB has to find scientific, realistic, rightful, solutions to international law and the Constitution in order to overcome problems that arise during appointments and in general in all relocations. Other jokes, which are included in the government bill and proposed to be released, preventing the appointment of school and institution managers and vice principals from being transferred to governors working as AKP mayors. In the AKP's ruling period, regulations and relevant guidelines related to the appointment and relocations of Education Institutions Directors have been changed almost every year. There's still no system sitting on it. At one time, when they were appointed managers only by interview, they were then only given a test condition, and then they realized that they could not only become political staffed by the test, they wanted, they couldn't manage their fellow union members, and this time they brought back the verbal test condition, they added criteria to the regulations concerned to make them managers, they introduced rotations to managers, and then they were forced to do so again. So in the 11-year period of AKP power, there have been numerous changes in the legislation on appointment of executives. Most of the executives in the MEB today are fellow union members. Again, almost all of these executives are men. Also, the number of religious and moral teachers is significant. Despite all the games that have been played for political staffing so far, it is not acceptable for the governors to rule out the rights of education executives who have exceeded 100,000 in the bill and to be given full authority in the postings. Teaching is the main thing in education. This is fundamentally not to be seen as a position that puts pressure on educational workers, but those who will perform these tasks must be elected for a period of time with the participation of all components of the relevant unit. With other factions in this article, the minister is given "super" powers. The minister will be able to employ the teacher he wants as a "project" in addition to all the laws on hiring staff to the entire public. The teacher, who has not been appointed nearly 300,000, will be sweating for the KPSS exams, while the minister's teacher will be able to employ without a test, without guarantee, flexiblely. The minister will also be able to temporarily employ people in other public institutions and organisations as he wishes. These regulations, which give the minister super powers, are unacceptable. The job was given this motion for all these reasons. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall be drafted into the Council of Ministers as the Council of Ministers, which has been appointed on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers, "The draft bill adopted by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws under the Constitutional Laws (1/884)," which has been discussed by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission in the 24/2/2014. We offer and propose that the joke be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Mehmet Shandir, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0202par0348	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you again. I'd like to rephrase what I just presented to you in Article 21. Dear friends, a political government makes the necessary arrangements for its own policy, and brings it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where the commissions are discussed, where it becomes official. We have no objection to that. But this work must serve the Civil Charter, the Constitution, and the public conscience as well as the sense of justice. In a state of law, it's not just about law, it's about procedure. Now, I'm afraid we haven't been able to reach a conclusion in the General Assembly, in the commissions, in the disputes against the Constitution. There are some very valuable lawyers among you. I mean, it wouldn't be right for me to run law against them. But look, with this law and many laws before that, you have committed a new course. With this, you remove the staff of the institutions by law, employ new staffs, relieve some officers of their duties, and in every way, you shut down the administrative judiciary for them. As soon as this law is in effect, 39,870 senior officers will be relieved of their duties, and these people will not be able to go to trial, they will not be able to seek their rights. However, in universal law and in Article 36 of the Constitution, there is a very basic human right to seek rights. People, citizens, as defendants or plaintiffs, have the right to a fair trial of the accused and the defense. It's a very basic human right. The Constitution is also a fundamental rule in the context of fundamental rights and freedoms. Now, you're here to eliminate this. In fact, in the 40th article of the Constitution, it says: "In the proceedings of the State, it is necessary for the persons concerned to address and state their terms. " But now, what you've brought with this law -- whatever it takes -- is that I'm not questioning it -- you know, you're competing, you're fighting, I'm not questioning it -- but the conclusion you're making is that if the people, the officers who served the national education, have the right to appeal to the judiciary, it's against the Constitution, it's against the law. On the day that 39,870 people are published in the official newspaper, they will now become teachers in the statement of the Minister. It's not like that, dear friends. I mean, the principal is not easy, certain times are not done without duty. I mean, Turkey's reality isn't what Mr. Bak meant. Now, about 40,000 people will ask you a question -- their children, their families, their surroundings -- when you go to your territories tomorrow, what is our fault? What flaw have we committed, against the government, against the Ministry, against your politics, against your politics, against your program, against your mission, that you make a law, and by shutting down my freedom of rights? He will ask. Dear friends, what you do is in the public conscience, the human conscience, if it undermines the sense of justice, the legitimacy of these laws, the legitimacy of your laws. It doesn't matter if it's in accordance with the law, it doesn't matter if it's in accordance with the Constitution, if at the end of this law a single person transfers you to God in his conscience, and you have lost your right to a servant, I don't give you my right. A manager, an assistant manager, a teacher, you can't handle the responsibility. I've been promised to bring this back to your attention. It's a really important law, and we're making a law that determines the future, but it has to be legitimate. We have made a commitment to the Constitution, and a commitment to it; it must be in accordance with the Constitution. In this sense, this arrangement is contrary to the Constitution. I offer this back to your attention, my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0203par0357	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are four motions in Article 23: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the final sentence of Article 41 of Article 41 of the Statement shall be removed from the article text and added to the bottom sentence at the end of the sixth joke. Mahir Ünal Nureddin Nebati Metin Ashunk Haci Bayram Türkoğlu İdris Şahin The Court of Justice and Deputy Inspectors of the Maarif are entitled to the same procedure and basis, provided that there is no additional payment in Section (1) of the Areas under the Code of State Officers No. 657 (J) of the Charter 375 (I). To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers a draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "Advention of the National Education Act on the Amendment in some Law and Law Conventions of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the European Law on the European Law on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution of Education and on the Commission on the Commission on the European Law on the European Law on Education and on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 23 of the 562 Table Numbered Bill of Law, we propose and propose that the word "major" be removed in the same article, in which the 1st and 3rd jokes of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, which stipulates a amendment to Article 41 of the Law of 652. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora The Turkish Statistical Institution's Statistical Regional Units Classification, based on the Ministry directly, is based on the second level, and is employed by Inspectors and Assistant Inspectors at the Office of Regional Inspectors formed in 26 districts. (2) Investigators are employed according to written and verbal test scores from teachers who have mastered education management, inspection, planning, and economics and policies in Main Science and completed the process of candidate teaching and teachers with eight years and more services in teaching. The oral examination commission, created by the Ministry of National Education, calls for three times more staff for oral examinations to begin the written test from the highest candidate. The oral exam uses audio and visual recording systems. Other procedures and fundamentals regarding exams are organised by regulations. Teachers who have completed their Ph.D. in education management, inspection, planning and economics and education management and policies are appointed to inspector staffs who have completed their Ph.D. in main science." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is 562 rows: "The Vice Inspectors of Maarif and Maarif Inspectors and Vice Inspectors of Maarif are employed in the head of the 23rd article of the 23rd Amendment to the First Amendment under the National Education Basic Law and Code of Law." To be changed in the form of the 2nd joke (a) the release of the phrases "education, science literature and theology faculty" in my column, and to be successful in the written and verbal examination of the 2nd joke. The impact of oral exams on the average success is not up to ten per cent." "The Deputy Chief Inspector's staff is appointed among those who have succeeded in the written and verbal examination between teachers. The impact of oral exams on the average success is not up to ten per cent." We propose that it be changed into form, that the 5th joke be removed from the text of the law, supply and offer. Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0204par0395	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0203par0396	Mr. Celal Dinçer, are you going to speak?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0205par0397	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0203par0398	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0205par0400	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 23 of Law Bill 562. I salute your high council. Although we have repeatedly said that this bill is too dangerous and dangerous, the government, as usual, reads what it knows. The government has not considered education as a national issue, but has made the existence of political institutions a sabbatical for proof and power. This bill includes a wide range of changes that are open, contrary to the requirements of democracy, and disregarding the demands and expectations of the nation, as far as forced conversion and banning classrooms. This bill terminates the duties of all senior officials except undersecretary of the Ministry of National Education. Former Minister Mr. Omar Dinçer had passed the law and destroyed the ministry's central office, and now the government is making another move on this issue. So Omer Dinçer's Act No. 652 failed to make the desired impact on the government, and not enough men were favoured, which brought up a new arrangement. With this bill, senior bureaucrats in the Ministry of National Education will be relieved of their rights and eliminated in a arbitrary manner. In addition, the judiciary has been shut down in a way that will not be seen in any legal state. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, in this bill, the duties of school administrators, who have completed four years in addition to all central and county executives, are also terminated. The fate of school administrators is between the two lips of governors and state-run education directors. Everyone knows that governors today are not governors of the state, but governors of power, acting like AKP mayors. Who can argue that an impartial and just appointment will be made for these reasons? This bill aims to establish fear in education, politicalization of schools, the creation of a digested, repressed, crushed army of educators. With this bill, the municipal education inspectors are gathered under the new name of the court inspectors, which is a positive development, but their demands have not been met, nor have they been improved in their rights; rather, there will be losses in status and autonomy. The fact that the Maarif inspectors are at the disposal of the state-owned educational directorates will eliminate objective investigations, investigations and inspections. Again, with technical errors made in the bill -- Mr. Minister, I warn you -- the graduates of universities, graduates of science literature and theology will be inspectors without teaching at all. However, being a financial inspector is a matter of experience. Dear friends, this law will put education back 50 years. This bill will rule in training, as well as in favor of men, as well as a supporter, as well as ideological and political structures. The authority's man will place logic in every cell of education. I'm telling you, this bill is a civilian coup to national education. The real complaint is now February 28th. What is done has nothing to do with democracy. This bill is filled with human rights violations, destroying teachers' job security, destabilizing the state, destroying the memory of the Ministry of National Education. It seems that those who drafted this bill did not swallow chalk dust, but did not know the suffering of the teaching profession. The educational community sees and will never forget this persecution and persecution by the AKP's government. Now to power, as you have reset the money, eliminate this bill that will end national education. Stop privatizing education and putting it on the market. Do not use education for your political interests. Don't condemn teachers to the future. Stop transferring public funds to private schools. Don't slaughter and oppress national education staff. By the way, I'm celebrating Mr. Ergüder, director of Hakkari Police. I can no longer bear this persecution. Retributions have turned into persecution. He has resigned. Mr. Secretary, you are carrying out the same atrocities at the Ministry of National Education. Stop melting millions and try to solve the problems of those who collect food out of the garbage. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0206par0412	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 23 of the 562 Table Numbered Bill of Law, we propose and propose that the word "major" be removed in the same article, in which the 1st and 3rd jokes of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, which stipulates a amendment to Article 41 of the Law of 652. "MEDDE 41- (1) The Statistical Association of Turkey's Statistical Regional Units Classification is based on the second level and is employed by Inspectors and Assistant Inspectors at the Office of Regional Inspectors established in 26 districts. (2) Investigators are employed according to written and verbal test scores from teachers who have mastered education management, inspection, planning, and economics and policies in Main Science and completed the process of candidate teaching and teachers with eight years and more services in teaching. The oral examination commission, created by the Ministry of National Education, calls for three times more staff for oral examinations to begin the written test from the highest candidate. The oral exam uses audio and visual recording systems. Other procedures and fundamentals regarding exams are organised by regulations. Teachers who have completed their Ph.D. in education management, inspection, planning and economics and education management and policies are appointed to inspector staffs who have completed their Ph.D. in main science." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0207par0425	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0206par0426	I'm reading the reason: With the government's proposal, anyone who has not graduated from education or has no pedagogic formation is given the chance to become an inspector of the teaching profession, no knowledge, no savings and no experience. So with the government's proposal, graduates who have no knowledge of biology, chemistry, history, statistics, etc., and no experience will be appointed as assistant inspectors on an uncertain test and will be able to supervise teachers, executives, who have spent years in the teaching profession. This application is not acceptable. In the field of inspectors, it must be chosen by means of a method that is transparent, fair, and accountable in accordance with the principles of integrity among teachers who have a certain knowledge, savings and experience, or who have special education in this field. In this way, however, guidance and control can have a real boosting effect on the quality of education. Otherwise, it will not function more than as an anti-democratic pressure tool on education workers. It will also encourage teachers to be directed to their studies and doctorates in their field, so that the quality of teaching will be improved. This proposal has been prepared and presented for all these reasons. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers a draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014, "Advention of the National Education Act on the Amendment in some Law and Law Conventions of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the European Law on the European Law on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution of Education and on the Commission on the Commission on the European Law on the European Law on Education and on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the European Law on the European Law on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of Education and on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the basis of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the basis of the basis of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution on the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution Muharrem Varlı (Adana) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0208par0437	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0206par0438	Mr Muharrem Varlı, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0209par0440	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Four ministers have changed in your power for 12 years. [[MHP rows (five, five) sound]] Is it five? Five ministers have changed, and I said it wrong. And every time the minister changes, you radically change our education system, radically alter the testing systems. So the kids don't understand what they're going to adapt to, what they're going to read, what they're going to understand, what they're going to test for. So many, you can't deal with education, so many, you can't change the education system. So we're talking about Turkey's most important subject, education. We're discussing the educational system that determines the future of our children and determines the future of our children, but each time, you set up a system of education from the top, from the top, from the top, from the top, from the top, from your own mind, without arguing, from the mouth to your own. So, with this bill, you've spent years experimenting with teaching, managing and managing in schools, training yourself, knowing the school, knowing the student, changing the student psychology in a heartbeat, trying to put the names of your own agencies, your own unions, to work through governors. I mean, that's cruelty. It is not possible for God-fearing people to say yes to this, friends. So that's it, you throw away people who spent years of school experience, years of principality, management. Come on, give it up. It's not the right app, it's the wrong app. You don't look for qualifications in the people you're replacing, you don't have to test them; you're going to put them all where you want them, or you're going to appoint them as senior bureaucrats. This isn't the right practice, you have to give it up. Now, once again, when you look at all the legislation proposals you've brought in recently, we're faced with laws based entirely on reckoning, based on revenge, which have been brought in to either liquidate or open the way for a place, which will guarantee and protect the government. These are all the laws you've made recently. So we haven't really met a law in the interest of the country, in the interest of our education system, in the interests of our students yet. What? Sir, to fill up the shoeboxes with money in their bedrooms, fill up the cash registers with money, and to ensure that there will be no problem in the future of law proposals for the rescue of those who were thrown into the prison after the prosecution's investigation, or the government's talks -- such as the oslo process -- these proceedings. Guys, this isn't the right thing to do, so give it up. People have assigned us to serve here. We're supposed to be in the service of the nation, but you do everything to protect, protect the government, and we're here in a state of nervous tension, perhaps from time to time, even fighting. It's not the right thing to do, it's not the right thing to do for our country. Again, there's an arrangement about academics, which you want to silence the academics here. You're blocking their statements, or their thoughts, or their speech. So in this country, the judiciary is silent, the police is silent, the academics are silent, the education is completely changed; then who will speak? You're already declaring politicians, all of them talking, coupgers. So, what we're getting at is not the right point. You're not in a good place, fellas. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0210par0450	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the final sentence of Article 41 of Article 41 of the Statement shall be removed from the article text and added to the bottom sentence at the end of the sixth joke. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends "Investigators and Deputy Inspectors of the Maarif are entitled to the same procedure and basis, provided for by Section (1) of Section A under the Code of State Officers No. 657 (J) of rule 375 (I)." Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving it proper recognition, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0211par0460	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0210par0461	I'm reading the reason: On the basis of the posting of Deputy Inspector of Maarif at the Ministry of Articles, the grounds for the appointment of Maarif inspectors and the competency examination of the Maarif Inspectors in transition to Maarif have been laid out. In the fifth part of the article, the Ministry's Ministry's Guidance and Control Chair has been assigned to the Maarif Inspector, but this number is limited to 50 maximum Maarif inspectors. Given the possibility that the needs will not be foreseeable and that there may be cases that require more than 50 inspectors to be assigned, the above sentence should be removed from the text of matter. The motion requires that the Maarif Inspectors and Maarif Deputy Inspectors continue to take advantage of the additional payment rates paid to members of the ministry's rural agency under the rule of law 375. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions in Article 24: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission shall draft a draft bill that has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/01/2014, "Advention of the National Education Act on the Amendment in some Law and Laws of 25th Amendments (in accordance with the Constitutional Law)" (in accordance with Articles 12/02/2014), under which the Commission for Higher Education, Culture, Youth and Sports shall be charged to the Plan and Budget Commission on the basis of Articles 21/22/2/2014, and under Article 25/2014. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Mustafa Erdem Bulent Belen Bilgilüş Yusuf Halaçoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd amendment of Article 24 of Article 24 to Article 5 of the National Education Basic Law and Article 562 is covered by the construction, equipment, bail fees and other needs deemed appropriate to the Ministry budget for this purpose. We propose and propose that the construction of the service building of the formal schools under the Ministry of National Education and the consulates. With all due respect. Fatma Nur Serter Celal Dinçer Veli Ağbaba Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0212par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0210par0484	Mr. Veli Agha will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0213par0487	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, first of all, I wish the AKP lawmakers good luck, because five people, including their two children, including the great boss, were evacuated today. Güler, Sarraf, Çağır, Çağırlar, Şaşlar, Şaş crime has been decided that they will be released separately since there is no possibility of changing the possibility of the changes in the interests of the suspects, that the evidence will be collected, that there is no possibility of escape and tampering with the evidence. There is a court order today. Dear friends, when I read the verdict and I think of people in prisons who have doubts about running away, who have doubts about darkening evidence, of course I'm not upset, I'm not. Dear friends, look, there is no doubt that Reza Sarraf, a Turkish citizen, has recently fled, gave this country 60 years, and served with you, the 71-year-old Chief of Staff İlker Başbug has doubts about running away. Mehmet Haberal, who spent his life serving science -- four years in prison -- was thrown into prison with false evidence -- is suspected of running away, no doubt of running away from his private plane, Riza Sarraf. A 76-year-old writer, thinker, economist, historian Yalçın Tüçün, has doubts about escaping, there is no doubt that Reza, 29. In Maltepe, Hasdal, in Hadimköy, in Mamak, in Smurfyer, and in serving the Turkish Armed Forces, there are doubts about the escape, but there is no doubt of the minister's children, many of whom I know, I have visited, I have visited, I have visited, I have visited, one by one, in the prisons. Most of them joined the army at the age of 14, went to prison at the age of 54. They have doubts about running away, of people who don't know any other country in their lives, of running away, of their children and Reza. Again, there is a suspicion that Tuncay Özkan. Tuncay Özkan, East Perinçek, Levent Bektas, Deniz Yıldırım, Hikmet Çişçek. But your people have no doubt that their evidence will be blacked out by false evidence, false evidence, false secret witnesses -- and some of the secret witnesses are rapists, some of them prostitutes, some of them corrupt -- are being held in prison, there is no doubt that your followers will have to black out the evidence. Dear friends, today, there is no doubt that the evidence of Hanefi Avcı (Divine) from the Revolutionary Headquarters case, which you held on to so many skirts, today, that your fellow newspapers were lining up to interview you, but you convicted him yesterday, that you threw him in prison, that Hanefi Avcı (Abraham) from the Revolutionary Headquarters case, has no doubt that the evidence will be blacked out, there is no Reza. Today, Hanefi Hunter has been someone you can refer to everywhere. I think you should be ashamed of that, too, if you have a conscience. Dear friends, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, KCK, military espionage, Oda TV, Revolutionary Headquarters cases have been unfairly, unlawful for years. I address the AKP MPs: If you have a conscience, put your hands on your conscience. Dear friends, journalist Fusun Erdogan has been on trial for eight years. East Perinçek was able to get out after six years, Mustafa Balbay at the end of five years, Bilgin Balanlı, Can Erenoğlu. The retired Colonel Ahmet Zeki Threeok, who you held to his rope today, has been on trial for many years, while valuable friends have been released before your people have filled sixty days. Today, Engin Alan, elected MP with as many votes as any of you, has been in prison for years only being punished for not getting up to the Prime Minister. He's here as well as you, but yours are being evacuated in 60 days. Now, Engin Alan will come and sit in the MHP rows. Look, Mehmet Haberal, who was held in prison for four years on suspicion of escape, did not leave the Parliament, dear friends. If there's any conscience, I'm asking you to consider it. (HP and mp) Dear friends, I don't know if your law will accept this, but it's certain that no conscience will accept it. Apparently, dear friends, when there's a lot of money, when there's a lot of money, when there's a lot of boxes, there's no doubt about blacking out the evidence, there's no doubt about running away. Dear friends, there's also a ban on abroad. Look, Sinan Aygün lives there, Mehmet Haberal is there, Mustafa Balbay is there. You've issued a restraining order, my friends. Do these people have any chance of living anywhere other than Turkey? Put your hands on your conscience. If there's a conspiracy, if there's a conscience, think about it and make up your mind, friends. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0214par0496	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission shall draft a draft bill that has been approved by the Council of Ministers for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/01/2014, "Advention of the National Education Act on the Amendment in some Law and Laws of 25th Amendments (in accordance with the Constitutional Law)" (in accordance with Articles 12/02/2014), under which the Commission for Higher Education, Culture, Youth and Sports shall be charged to the Plan and Budget Commission on the basis of Articles 21/22/2/2014, and under Article 25/2014. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0215par0505	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0214par0506	Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0216par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, why is this clause important now? It is important that the Ministry of National Education, at work, accepts textbooks from the Board of Education and Discipline. It's been put there before, competition's on, textbooks are being prepared. I mean, the system always went like this. They were pressured, but there was an incident, especially during this pressure, until they reached the acceptance of books considered textbooks into abuse. When we entered the tenders on the printing of these books during my History Foundation presidency, we found that unfortunately, they were printing books by giving them to places out there. When we were trying to print 17 cents, it was pushed out for 32 cents. Now, this is the first one. There must be a serious arrangement here, and this abuse must be avoided. Second, when we say textbooks, textbooks need to be removed from the system today. For example, I'll tell you about history: In historical events, there's a great benefit in taking the history textbooks out of writing and putting them, perhaps, into dramas, to be passed on to the C.D.P.s, and being shown at school and having them come to a conclusion by the teacher and the students. So, there's a system that's called visual, which's based on a few senses. Of course, there has to be a structure that can tell us all about it. Now, there's no way you can do that by changing a board or giving out a tablet computer. So you have to create the infrastructure of these. The information you put in the tablet computer is important, not the computer itself. So it's very important how the student will benefit, how he will benefit, how the information will be given to him, to that student. That's something to consider. But it's odd that when you look at 90 years of Turkish Republic history -- as I said in a speech -- in Turkey, the only ministry that's been played on most is the Ministry of National Education, which has not been seriously edited. Because it's not the Ministry itself, it's not the organization, it's not the organization, which has not been much of a change in organization. There's another big change going on now, but this change, sir, will be valid for those after four years, he'll be relieved of duty. For what reason? So for what reason do you get the five-year-old? Now, there's something called earned rights. The elimination of this is extremely unbecoming to the state of law, but when it's taken away in a very different way, it's even worse. Truety is one of the most important elements of the survival, ascension, and forward movement of governments. Look, we're talking about modern Turkey, so-called. Even the Ottoman state had so much faith in the merits of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror that he passed the law of righteousness. He's determined which missions he can take after, which means he's got a pattern, and the experience's been put in front of him. No one has been brought anywhere without a trial, and even the women are being tested, so they come with a pattern. Now you're going to give a direct order to a minister, a general manager, a deputy minister, an undersecretary. I mean, come on, guys. We need to put this national education system of education into a proper state. Look, in the past period -- most of you will know, you've seen it in your youth, I'm not telling young people, I'm telling older people like me -- in our high school classes, we used to see logic, sociology, philosophy. Where's the logic, brother? Do you have any today? No. But it's one of the most important lessons, because we don't know how to use it, for him. Therefore, you can't say today that the lessons in the quality of that day were taught. We ask the children, here, the TVs are asking around, what hemisphere is Turkey in? It says, "In the middle hemisphere." I mean, there are so many examples like this. I mean, really, how can we guarantee the future of Turkey without giving us a quality education, without educating our youth well? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0217par0522	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions in the 25th article. The last motion I'm going to read is a motion for violation of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following sentence of the first sentence of the interim 10th article, which is envisioned to be added to the provision of Article No. 25 and Article 652, we propose and change the list of "year of education" in the eighth joke of the "year of education" in the form of the "year of school" in the form of the "year of the following framework article. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Koca İdris Şahin Ramadan Can Mine Leuk White Haci Bayram Türkoğlu Shirin Ünal "In addition to the third joke, those who are considered appointed as Group President and State Manager on the list (3) and those who are referred to as members of the 3rd Article shall be appointed to the staff of the office of the Deputy Director of the Office, the Head of the District and the Governor of the State, and those who have been appointed to the staff of the Teachers and Development General Directorate." THE PRODUCTION OF THE MILITARY EDUCATION THE PRODUCTION OF THE MILITARY EDUCATION Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill, which has been referred to the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and 562th Law Charter (/884) under which there is an amendment in some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Code, which has been discussed by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission as the Plan and the Budget Commission on the Commission on 21/02/2014, and 22/2/2014. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Bulent Belen Seyfetttin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 562 Orders Numbered Law Bill be added to Article 25 under Article No. 652 to the provisions of Article No. 652 in Article 10 (3), (4), (5) and (8) be removed from the text of substance, and the 9th joke shall be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Altan Tan The secret is Sakık Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora From the time this clause is in effect, university professors, teachers, and non-committee graduates can be appointed as Education Experts, provided they have a Ph.D. in areas related to the ministry's field of duty. Among teachers, those who have five years of experience in the profession, at the level of the Ministry of Public Staff, the level of Foreign Language Certificate Test or the equivalent of language competencies, can also be assigned to the Education Experts' staff by recording voice and video, based and established by the ministry," he said. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 25th Amendment of the current 562 Rows Bill. Article 2 of the Constitution Due to its violation of the concept of the state of law in its Article, we demand and demand that it be removed from the draft text. == sync, corrected by elderman == Nur Serter Selects Vahap Ağtücı Gürkut Acar Mahmut Tanal Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0218par0571	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0217par0572	Mr. Vahap chooses, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0219par0574	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. This arrangement also shows that it is not just an arrangement for closing about 4,000 classrooms in Turkey. Let's not look at it so naively, I mean, society is really suffering from classrooms, parents are complaining, student parents are making complaints about this, especially the burden, and as a government, we respond to this social demand and in a sense, we respond positively to society's request by closing these classrooms, and that's not the case. Now, when we look at the 25th article, we ask that the motion that we've made here be removed from the draft text, which is a violation of the Constitution. Why do we want it? For one thing, we're changing the rule of law with the law. Above all, this is the 25th article, not the provision for the subject of the classrooms. It says here that the administrative staff within the Ministry of National Education will terminate their duties from the day this law is in effect. So before, these people have taken exams, spent a certain amount of time, had experience, had an acquish; these are stories, and I do it with the law. Even if you go to administrative court, you won't get results. I wanted you to, and I'm ignoring you, and I'm erasing a whole institution, and I'm erasing it because the administrative staff there is a community staff. Let's just say that. Now, to purge this, I don't know, he's handsome, he's ugly, he's short, he's ugly, he's short, but you're sitting, you're starting from scratch, you're putting on a new staff regime, you're building a new staff, you're going to get a new staff, you're going to get a new staff, you're going to get a political staff. Now, we're against yesterday, but we're against today, so if the Ministry of National Education is in the hands of a structure -- I'm telling you, in fact, you're saying -- in the hands of the parallel structure, parallel state, the community; you're taking it from there, you're offering it into the hands of another institution or a political will, a world view. Now, come on, friends, so if you bring education to this point, you're going to sin a great deal, you're going to do a great deal of evil, you're going to do it in court, you've done it in HSYK. Look, remember the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, which came up with the Constitutional Amendment? Sir, an HSYK, a caste system, a structure of 5 people, judges, prosecutors, selects a certain group, and they choose that executive staff, they say, "Alam-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah." And then what happens? The 2010 referendum is a 26-point change -- remember that period -- we're going to sell it like a pill. They told the Turkish nation, and they bought it, as they call it, into the organization of the Kemalist structure. What happened? I'm against the first form, and I'm against the second form, and you brought HSYK into AKP's hands today, you made a backyard for AKP, you gave it to the minister, a political institution, and you gave it to him. Now, if you play cruelly with the judiciary, if you play cruelly with the educational system, in the name of democracy, in the name of human rights, in the name of freedom, you will do great evil to Turkey. Our words are futile. We say turn around wrong. You don't turn around. Look, the words we complained about on the stand yesterday... what did we say then? Come on, friend, you're going arm in arm with a structure that is so understanding that you're dividing Turkey, breaking it up. There were more marginalities, there needed to be a national survival struggle in Turkey. You know what the Prime Minister says now? It says: "This is a national struggle, a national war of salvation. " You are saying what we said yesterday. For God's sake, listen to the big word one day! I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0220par0581	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0221par0584	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0220par0585	I will submit the motion to your votes. We've got a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Öner, Mr. Baydar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Elector, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Silver, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Guler, Mr. Onur, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Orator. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 562 Orders Numbered Law Bill be added to Article 25 under Article No. 652 to the provisions of Article No. 652 in Article 10 (3), (4), (5) and (8) be removed from the text of substance, and the 9th joke shall be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends "9) From the time this clause is in effect, university professors, teachers, and graduates who have not been assigned to the public office can be appointed as Education Experts, as long as they have a Ph.D. in areas related to the ministry's field of duty. Among teachers, those who have five years of experience in the profession, at the level of the Ministry of Public Staff, the level of Foreign Language Certificate Test or the equivalent of language competencies, can also be assigned to the Education Experts' staff by recording voice and video, based and established by the ministry," he said. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0222par0604	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0220par0605	I'm reading the reason: The government's proposal, based on the excuse to shut down the classrooms, includes direct support of public resources and private schools, while also the largest and most comprehensive liquidation plan in history for all educational administrators with a number of 100,000. During its 12-year rule since 2002, the AKP has changed the Administrator's Order of Admissions several times. With these changes, he has been a staff in central units and rural units. From the ministry staff to the vice principal at the school and vice principal, all executive staffs have been appointed "those close to the AKP and the Congregation." Many of these appointments were carried out by the directives of the union known for its proximity to the government. With the end of the 12-year-old Community-AKP partnership after the December 17th operation, the ruling struggle also took place through the Ministry of National Education staffs. With this bill, the duties of all the principals and vice principals who have completed four years in schools will be terminated. With the new arrangement, the governors will appoint the vice principal and vice principals for four years. Thus, the AKP will make its supporters manage all schools. The lists from the Yandash trade union and AKP district administrations will be approved by the governor, teachers, students and parents with school components will not be considered. The gender inequality of the management staff, which already exists, will also increase. Although the Ministry of National Education has more female personnel than the number of male staff, there are only 18% female executives. With this new arrangement, "men governors" will choose male executives to increase the inequality that exists. Administrators of the National Education Service should not be transformed into political rant doors. In the context of democratisation and localization of education, all administrators must be determined by choice, according to all the components of schools and other institutions for a period of time, and should not be dismissed as the primary teaching profession for all educational workers. According to the AKP's logic, anyone can do anything, and according to the 9th article, there is a way to become an educational expert on all other institutions that have nothing to do with education. Doctoral graduates, professors, and experienced teachers who have a higher degree in education should be allowed to kick out their training staff without ever being brought to the border. The work was presented with the following grounds. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission proposes a draft bill, which has been referred to the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and 562th Law Charter (/884) under which there is an amendment in some Law and 25th Amendments in the Constitutional Code, which has been discussed by the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission as the Plan and the Budget Commission on the Commission on 21/02/2014, and 22/2/2014. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0223par0622	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0220par0623	Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0224par0624	Mr. President, I'd like to submit a right first: for the first time, a change has been made by Mr. Mahir Ünal, and I thank you for that, and I'll tell you first. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Dear lawmakers, now building or building an unfair education on a country's educational system is the worst thing that can be done to a country. Now, I just said, "This law has broken the motivation of educators, it's brought down the morale of the educators, and it's destroyed the excitement of the educators, because it's very intense, and because of the fact that everyone's status is going to be eliminated, people have made a lot of complaints and complaints about their futures. That's what we've been trying to say, that's what we do. I think that this bill came out as an element of totalitarian understanding that has the power to do everything, and I defend it. Because educators have cries, managers have cries; educators have worries, educators have fears for the future, one way or another. Mr. Secretary, you have to listen to this whining. I don't speak by heart; please, he comes to me, I speak for him. Now, it's the demand of these people that we represent. You won't expect us to go back and say, "Mr. Minister, you're doing very well, take these teachers off a mission." What do we say? We're going to say, we're going to tell them that taking them out of office, destroying their acquistors, their place in the constitutional and legal order, that there's no business in the administration or in the Ministry or in politics, and that's what we said. We're holding a mirror to the power's face here, and Mr. Secretary, you're giving us the word "populism." It's in the form of "populism." However, Mr. Secretary, I asked you twice when do you plan to make an arrangement for teachers' salaries and fees? Mr. Halaçoglu just asked about the arrangement for academics. These are serious matters. We're always arguing about how we're going to kick the shit out of teachers, executives, where we're going to get them, what structural elements we're going to put them in. Well, let's discuss these teachers' salaries, discuss the social status of these teachers, discuss the status of these teachers, how do we move them to a more advanced point, let's focus on that, and that's the problem. Now, it's not populism, it's actually realism, it's more naturalism, it's natural, it's natural, it's natural, and what needs to be said by everyone is something that needs to be discussed. Success in education is possible when you do it in the right place, the right time and the right way. It is not possible to take the law of the Ministry of National Education in cold blood and examine it at a time when the election is short-lived by corruption and corruption and the government can't run the state. As such, power has brought the subject of the school to our attention as a place of reckoning. Of course, classrooms should be reduced from the education system, dropped from the education equation. But the classroom was a supply and demand, and most of the friends said it all the time here -- came out as a matter of concern. I mean, there's a law, the Gresham Law, bad money expels good money, but that's not how it works in education. In education, a quality education will drive away a poor education. So, you brought a quality education system, and you brought a cheaper education system, and you built a structure more qualified than the classroom, and this great Turkish nation, did these people say no to you? Then we have to drain the way to the classrooms. The way to do that is to make the education system quality, to review the measurement and evaluation system, to save students from putting them in the exam race. I'll tell you the rest from the next item. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0225par0634	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The Minister has a request for an explanation. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0226par0638	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I was actually thinking of highlighting this issue at the thank-you speech tonight after the talks are over, but I do know from the legislature of the Grand National Assembly that thank-you talks aren't highly respected, and the hall is being cleared very quickly. I'd like to emphasize something that I think is very important to him, once again, with such a majority present. Now, in all the talks, especially in the speech of our fellow opposition lawmakers, despite all the statements we've made in the Commission, despite statements we've made here from time to time, you're providing us with a method that we don't think about both the number and the method of appointing the school manager, the manager, the vice principal. Now, look, we have the National Ministry of Education Board Directors Admissions and Replacement Act, which we published on August 4, 2013, which is in effect. This regulation requires some revisions in accordance with this legal arrangement, and one of which is that assignments are four years old, but that doesn't mean that four years and four years from now will never be extended. Now, we insist that this is an arrangement to resolve a conflict of the court. See, in Article 4 of our regulation, we identify those who apply to run the vice principal and vice principal of the educational institution as candidates for the second task. As the appointment is defined, we refer to the second task given in accordance with Article 88 of the Law on State Officers No. 657 to conduct assistant managers, vice principals, and vice principals. So since the fact that this is the second mission that exists in our code, unfortunately, is not taken into account, we've made it clear once again by some administrative courts. After that -- after this arrangement -- they'll be assigned to the current school administrators, knowing that they're being appointed, which is what the regulation predicts.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0227par0641	Mr. Secretary, you have one minute left.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0226par0642	Okay. In this regulation, you can see how he will be appointed vice principal, what exams he will pass... and now he is appointed by the governor of national education. This is where the governor will propose to the governor and appoint the candidates, which processes will be passed, which exams will be passed, which criteria will be evaluated, and then they will be evaluated by a commission, and then the governor will appoint the candidates that the commission has reduced to 3 ▪, and these are the processes that are already here. So, with this law, all the school administrators are suspended, and then the county manager chooses someone of his own accord, regardless of any measure, and then the governor throws one of these out; there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0228par0644	(A) Is the choice correct?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0226par0645	(A) What was the choice?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0228par0647	All executives' duties are dropping.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0229par0648	Please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0226par0649	It's highlighted by the law that this is not a staff, it's an assignment.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0229par0650	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following sentence of the first sentence of the interim 10th article, which is envisioned to be added to the provision of Article No. 25 and Article 652, we propose and change the list of "year of education" in the eighth joke of the "year of education" in the form of the "year of school" in the form of the "year of the following framework article. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends "In addition to the third joke, those who are considered appointed as Group President and State Manager on the list (3) and those who are referred to as members of the 3rd Article shall be appointed to the staff of the office of the Deputy Director of the Office, the Head of the District and the Governor of the State, and those who have been appointed to the staff of the Teachers and Development General Directorate." THE PRODUCTION OF THE MILITARY EDUCATION THE PRODUCTION OF THE MILITARY EDUCATION Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving it proper recognition, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0230par0666	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0229par0667	I'm reading the reason: The motion envisions the transfer of the terms "year of education" in the article text to the "year of education" of the "students" of the "year of education" of the article, and the amendments to the amendments proposed in the draft, which are referred to as being appointed to the office's staff by the office's head and the county's director's staff. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 26 that I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers that shall be referred to as "Advention of the Law on National Education, Youth and Sports," which shall be discussed in 24/2/2014 by the National Code of Law on Some Law and 252/204). Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that Article 26 of the Law Bill be removed from the text of the 26th Article of the Law shall be changed by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0231par0688	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0229par0689	Mr. Akif Hamzacebi will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0232par0692	Mr. President, the 25th article, which has just been discussed and accepted, is one of the two most important articles of this bill. If one item is the arrangement for closing the classrooms, this is the other one. In this article, all executives in the Ministry of National Education, except for the head of the Undersecretary and Education Discipline Board, undersecretary assistants, general managers, head of the strategy agency, head of the real estate agency and head of the group, are being terminated by law enforcement. Again, in the same article, the duties of county national education directors, national educational assistants, district national education directors are terminated. In addition, another joke arrangement concludes the duties of school principals, those who serve as principals of the school. This is an extremely antidemocratic, unconstitutional arrangement. There's a power of authority here. In a state of law, all actions and procedures of governance are subject to the control of the judiciary. So, the administration does a transaction, makes a transfer, makes an appointment, and those who are interested in this appointment can go to the judge and claim their rights. The law makes an arrangement to make sure that these people don't go to court, so that they don't go to court, and they're being deposed by law. And I'm very sorry to hear that Mr. Secretary has just made a statement about this clause. Mr. Secretary says that those who have been removed from the position of principal of the school go to court, where they decide to stop the execution, and they decide to call it off. Unfortunately, these courts don't know the truth because the school principal is an additional task, a second mission. So, we're not taking anyone off the teaching staff, we're not taking them off the teaching job, but unfortunately, the courts in Turkey are making the wrong decision because they don't know this truth. Mr. Secretary is taking this right from his staff. Mr. Secretary gave me a number the other day. The number of individuals involved in this substance is not as you exaggerate it, but only 40,000 people say it. That's a very modest number! I mean, Mr. Secretary, I took your statement with regret.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0233par0698	There's nothing to be sorry about.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0232par0699	Please, ask your Ministry bureaucracy. There was a law in 2012, a law for restructuring at the Ministry of National Education. A mistrial has been filed against him in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has rejected this mistrial. The reason for the rejection was that a new management structure is being created in the ministry for the sake of public interest. While a new management structure is being formed, naturally some staffs are removed, some new staffs may be neglected. Therefore, I do not approve of the motion to cancel. The object of this is this: If there is no new structure, you cannot remove a person by law; the Constitutional Court's decision is 2013/26. Again, the Constitutional Court made a decision in 2006 on the Banking Editorial and Control Board. During a former government period, the duties of members of the BDK were concluded by law. The government has appointed new members there. The Constitutional Court will not allow it. There's no change in management structure here. You can't take away this person's right to go to trial. If you're going to take it, take it with this, and let the judicial path be clear. Mr. Secretary, you shouldn't insist on such an unconstitutional arrangement. Mr. Secretary, my recommendation to the government and the General Assembly is: please, let's go back through the technical debate, and let's give up this clear arrangement that the Constitutional Court will cancel. Because when the Constitutional Court annuls this arrangement, they have the right to go to the judiciary and come back to those duties, and they will get that right. With 40,000 people doing this, it's chaos. Yes, good evening, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0234par0704	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0235par0706	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0234par0707	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Let's do it with the electronics, okay. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a draft bill, which has been referred to the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "The draft bill, which has been approved by the Council of Ministers to make changes in some Laws and Laws under the Constitutional Laws (1/884)." Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0236par0720	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0234par0721	Mr. Ali Oz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0237par0724	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 26 of Law Bill 562. I salute your high council. Of course, in the name of this 562 rows of Bill of Law, I would like to make some changes in education and education, to redefine the qualifications of educators, administrators, to redefine their appointments, to replace what we had done before, even before we came to Parliament, with a decree in law enforcement, which we had turned into puzzle boards. But, of course, without saying this, I can't help but say that when we examine the entire bill, we're actually struggling to reconstruct the degeneration of the structure of Turkish national education, which has nothing to do with education, which is just taught by memorization. In this bill, and in your last twelve years of power, I have to say, unfortunately, there is not much progress and improvement in terms of the national education part and the education part. You're going to a huge change in our teaching system. Now, if we hadn't lived in this country for twelve years, if we didn't know that the Justice and Development Party had evaluated them according to what criteria, then we might be able to agree. You are a government that has changed ministers five times in your twelve years of power, which has made serious changes to the central and rural administrative structure of national education and the model of education in Turkey with its own understanding and bureaucrats. So I assume you're considering us to be very naive, waiting for us to believe what you're saying here in advance. Don't be a man, don't be a man, don't be a man, don't be a man, don't be a man, When some work failed in national education, you moved the educational system to a very different point where national education should not be part of the education part, and you found new inventions. We don't forget, Mr. Minister, so when there's nothing going on, you've started something called single-model people, single-species people, not like this, not like this, not like this, disguise arrangement, the end of free clothes in schools. At one point, you became a serious advocate of this, and soon you entered a re-correction, leaving that authority to the decision of the family troops in the schools again. As you all know and remember, we give you school books for free, which you often talk about essentials in education. That's right, you did, but we all know that most of the books you distribute that don't match the curriculum don't even have students in school. But, at the beginning of these books, we know very well that the Prime Minister, in some places, is advertising the Ministry of National Education. None of this has escaped our attention. You said smart wood, you said "tablet computers." Well, well, these are technology-appropriate, modern education-wise, but I want to make these tenders quickly before the infrastructure is prepared, and I want to say that these smart computers are waiting for boxes in schools, go to major elementary schools in Ankara, where you can even see them.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0238par0731	It's the incompetent handlers.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0237par0732	It's got nothing to do with incompetent handlers, the infrastructure isn't completely done. And don't blame the managers at all, it doesn't suit you, Congressman. We couldn't get rid of these executives, and you appointed them, and they're executives who are extremely successful in their schools. You have to admit to the great Turkish nation that you've already made a mistake in becoming a member of the staff. You did it in HSYK. Do not think that this nation does not realize that you have the desire to make these changes now, because you think about how you do the staffing in national education, and how you do them as a threat. Of course, education is a serious business, but when you turn it into a puzzle board, it's unfortunately not serious. I'd also like to point out that the law does not apply by writing. I say that the rulers must be men of integrity, of authority, of authority, of national thinking, of the land, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit06spe0239par0734	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0239par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue the talks of Bill 562. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There are two motions in the (1)th joke based on the 27th article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. Article 1. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Gürkut Acar Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Kamer Young Aykut Erdoğdu The Law on Promotions and Promotions of First and Central Tedrisat Muslims, dated 10/6/1930 and number 1702, has been lifted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that Article 27 of Article 27 of the Law Code be changed in the following way by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. "The Law on Promotion and Promotions of First and Central Tedrisat Muslims, dated 10/6/1930, number 1702, has been lifted from effect." Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0240par0024	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0239par0025	Seyfettin Yilmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0241par0027	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Education Basic Law, 562 rows, and to amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the Prime Minister has a knack, I'll give him that. He doesn't see or hear what everyone sees or hears with his ears. If it stays like this, they have eyes, they don't see it, they have ears, they don't hear it. It confuses the masses. Do they not see, or do the masses? Look, the phone call he gave to his son was to remove millions of pounds of cash from the house. Do the voices belong to the Prime Minister and his son? Looks like it. Are there any signs of your son's unprovoked, unfair enrichment? Yeah. Does he avoid judgment and accountability for these things? Yeah. What else? He's got all the resources. Is there a document from a committee of experts on wiretaps that says there's editing? No. The Minister of Technology says it's too obvious to even look at technology. No, nothing like that has happened. Not all MPs have been justified here, like a choir of sacred understandings. There's the opposite: he sees what no one sees, he hears it, and he only claims it. Do you doubt yourself whether I am blind or deaf? That is the claim of a lady in Kabatata, who is being abused by traveling activists. No one but the lady and the Prime Minister has seen this happen. There's a claim, no images, no witnesses, a mystery. You run the government, put your images out there, answer these claims. No. Apparently, he was the only one who saw it. Again, that's what the Travelers claim to have used the mosque disrespectfully. There's no such thing as Imam. The people there say, "It didn't happen." He claims. We'll continue politics through the values of faith. The concept of the interests of the nation is different in Erdogan, and different in people with a state element. That's the process of resolution, that's judicial independence, that's democracy, that's human rights, that's education, that's the interest of the nation. Erdogan is said to be: Mr. Prime Minister, it is wrong to arrange these classrooms. If you shut down the classrooms before the infrastructure of national education is perfected, without the exams are eliminated, you will not harm the parallel structure you call them, but children who are intelligent in the debacle, but who are not in good shape. No, sir, with these regulations, let's not take money out of the family's pockets because of the studies. Let's do an account, what the numbers say. The cheapest school fee is between $1,000 and $1,500. If it is considered to be $1,250 an average, our low-income citizen can pay an instalment payment of $100-150 a month and send his child to the school.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0242par0032	There's a school for $1,000!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0241par0033	The cheapest school fee begins at 10,000 TL. When we drop the government support for $1,500, the student guardian must pay a fee like $8,500. How will our low-income citizen pay for this? If he tried to pay 12 instalments, he'd make $710 a month. That's the price you pay for just one child. How can a small-income citizen separate $710 a month from his budget as a school fees only? Or is your goal to undermine the equality of opportunity in education? Only the children of the people above certain incomes will receive good education? Yes, such a sense of justice. That's why it's the law of treason against the poor, for the poor, for the impossible, for the eyes of our children. No, these allegations are wrong when the numbers are in the middle and the numbers are clearly against poor families and their children. This is for the benefit of the nation. It is absurd to say so. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0243par0037	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. Article 1. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. The Law on Promotions and Promotions of First and Central Tedrisat Muslims, dated 10/6/1930 and number 1702, has been lifted. Aykut Erdoğdu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0244par0047	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0243par0048	Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0245par0051	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 27th Amendment to the National Education Act, which has changed 562 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, what is the purpose of our national educational system? It's teaching our children science, culture, morality. Science, culture and morality are the basis of civilization and a human condition. For example, animals don't have a civilization; we can't talk about a dog civilization, cat civilization, sheep civilization, but we talk about a Roman civilization, we talk about Byzantine civilization, we talk about Islamic civilization. We can geographically divide civilization: Western civilization and Eastern civilization, both in the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages, when Western civilization is in the darkness, when there is an inquisition in Europe, when people are burned for having a demon in their souls, there is Ibn Sina in the Eastern civilization, there is Farabi in the country, there is Abhana in the country, there is Yunus Emre. Western civilization takes the Renaissance and the Reform from the fading light of this Islamic civilization, and the intellectual foundations of this Western civilization are Ibn Rashd. Ibn Rüsd introduced ancient Greece to Western civilization. Ancient Greece has Plato, Aristotle, Socrates. There is also the creation myth in ancient Greece. According to the ancient Greek myth of creation, the gods commissioned the brothers Epimetheus and Prometheus to distribute their properties while creating humans, and some of the creatures who came up against Epimetheus gave strong claws, some of them thick furs, some of them fast-run. Eventually, a hairless, naked, pathetic, helpless creature comes along, but there's nothing in the box, and Prometheus, who thinks this poor creature can't survive, steals fire and crafts from the sky. The human creature he gives by stealing fire and crafts, through these fires and crafts, will rise above all animals and become so powerful that, after a while, wars and chaos will begin between him and himself. Zeus, who sees this, can't bear the situation, and gives people two more important qualities: shame and a sense of justice. A civilization doesn't develop if people don't have a sense of shame and justice. What's shame? It's a blush in the face of shameful verbs, a human reaction, the foundation of civilization. So we put these emotions in our national education system to make the fundamental difference between animals and humans. For example, cats aren't ashamed of their behavior, but people are ashamed of their behavior, and the first thing we have to teach our children in our national education system, in our moral system, is shame, shame, the blush of our faces in the face of shameful verbs. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0246par0055	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the 27th article (2), which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 27th Amendment to the Constitution of National Education Act No. 562, and the 27th Amendment to the Constitution of Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of two. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Aykut Erdoğdu Gürkut Acar Kamer Young ==References==The provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, and Articles 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 5, 8, 10, and Articles 1, 2, 3, 3, and 4. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the amendment of Article 2 of Article 27 of "The National Education Basic Law and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws." ==References======External links=========Structures======Stations========Station========Station======Station==========Station==========Styles==========References============External links==========External links==== Zühal Topcu Seyfettin Yilmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu Münir Kutluata Özcan Yeniçeri Ali Öz Does the commission participate in the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0247par0078	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0246par0079	Mr. Ali Öz, come in.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0248par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 27th joke of the Law Bill 562. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, in the last 12 years at the Ministry of National Education -- in my previous speech -- I've often mentioned both the minister and the model change in national education. The main goal of national education is to sit down and think about where we are at the point of equal opportunity in education, why these classrooms have emerged as part of education, and how we can solve the problems that are new with the closing of these classrooms. You all must have children. And since the majority of us are here as MPs, I know that there are a lot of people who have children in college. Therefore, none of us should hide the fact that, in their teaching phase, they are not only satisfied with the classroom, that the school outside the classroom is inadequate, and that when we have the opportunity to do so, we spend hours teaching our children in private teachers, in private teachers, in homes. So what we're really going through is exactly the same thing as what society is going through. Now you've closed the classrooms here. How reasonable would it be to measure their knowledge without creating an equal opportunity in education, without equal opportunities for another part of our country, and then with the same tests as the result of their training? It would be much more chaos to make such an arrangement if our children were to be able to do more questions while the teacher was traveling around the classroom, while the school was walking around the classroom, without revealing the equality of this opportunity. Your intention, your purpose, is to destroy the positioning of the National Education from scratch. If you want to say so, you need to make it clear and clear to the great Turkish nation and to the other opposition MPs in Parliament. I don't think you have the right to mock anyone's mind here. I don't think there's anything in our country about teachers who have problems that can't be appointed, teachers' rights and problems are piled up, waiting for solutions, where most teachers can't have family integrity at their first appointment, but I think there's nothing that's going to get this country to play as a system with teachers and administrators beyond teachers. Now let me give you an example: a teacher who's been in charge for fifteen or twenty years... completely out of service education, let's not kid ourselves, we all know that in this country, service training in certain professions is only done on paper, that certain teachers meet at some point in order to fill certain times, that they meet, that they're done in the legal legislation, that they're done, and then your education is completed. So, when our teachers were away from this formation, you took a manager, you gave up management skills, and you said, "Come back as a teacher." We all need to think about the point where we're going to trust our own child to a teacher who's been managing for years. So I think we need to make a lot of evaluations when we end the management of these executives. How are the new managers going to be determined? Governors... you've been saying it a lot, Mr. Prime Minister. Our governors. Don't you say? Mr. Secretary here says: "One commission, three teachers, then offer, appoint..." Let's not hide the truth from this nation, as well as all the new teachers you're going to appoint will be your work and you'll appoint these managers, you'll appoint them. Liyakate says with all due respect, you can bring it to the House with all the bills you want, unless you give it to the one who deserves it, but you won't get any more results in the application, as you have done before, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0249par0089	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 27th Amendment to the Constitution of National Education Act No. 562, and the 27th Amendment to the Constitution of Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of two. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter (Istanbul) and his friends ==References==The provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, and Articles 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 5, 8, 10, and Articles 1, 2, 3, 3, and 4. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0250par0099	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0249par0100	On the motion, Mr. Haluk Ahmet Silver... Here you go, Mr. Silver.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0251par0103	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Is the Republic of Turkey a state of law? That's what the Constitution says. So, what's a law state, do you ever think about it? In the state of law, the borders of states are drawn by law in order to protect citizens from the arbitrary practices of government. Further than that, the definitions should be fair, universal, in accordance with the norms of the law. The AKP aims to eliminate the law state, let alone its legislative habits. The law has been transformed into a puzzle board in accordance with the power's temporal interests. Dear friends, the bill we're discussing has everything, not just justice. With your questionable examinations, you can keep the teachers out of the job, and every time you screw up, the student selection exams, the injustices of years-long candidates for teachers, everything is available, until public goods are drawn to a number of people. Is there anyone in these ruling ranks who can prove that this bill is really about solving the issue of education, not about liquidating someone for your political goals? What do you call the model where the governors appoint the principals? Let us make it clear that all the laws you've made in your power, in order to protect the citizen of the legal state from the arbitrary practices of the state, are made for the pleasure of your party's leader. Even your most decent bill or proposals were added to the joys of that day, and they were corrupted. The opposition has become embarrassed for you in the commissions. We've seen it over and over again that the ruling party MPs have no idea what they're signing. In Turkey, the AKP's power of law in the Constitution has not changed its definition, but has damaged and even corrupted its content with its full power. Every law order that comes in, every bag of law that comes in, our country's legal state has weakened the norms as it includes the arbitrary purposes of AKP power. He's lost weight. He's lost weight, so what? A law state has now replaced the legal state written in our Constitution. We live within the state of the law now. Thinking that he had absolute power, the head of such an assumption left the House out of the way, as if it were an ordinary procedure to conduct legislature activities. I've been told that many times here. The legal state model of the head of the administration, which sees the principle of dissolution in modern democracies as a chore, is not staying here, it's going further. The legislature has become the ultimate force for the head of the rule that sees the High Assembly as a chore, who sees the judiciary as an obstacle to him, or even an enemy. Let those who react when the president says "dictator" take a look at the painting. Erdogan was bossy. What authority! Erdogan's system is a totalitarian system that wants to connect all men to him in Turkey. Dictators see other things, they have this disease of thinking that everything belongs to them. He feels that all the government's assets are his own, that all the power of the state has been handed over to him. He believes that all institutions exist to make him happy. He thinks anyone who doesn't think like him is a traitor. Dictators are the ones who think they own the country and, after a while, confuse their own pockets with the state budget that they need to protect as their virtue. These dictators do a lot of things. They hug demagogy very often, demagoji is a tool for them. Dictators consider their anger to be evidence of righteousness, and at every opportunity I received higher votes than the thought. They put themselves in the form of national will.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0252par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0251par0111	It's not that people think they're the national will.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0253par0112	You can't talk like that if he's a dictator.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0251par0113	...to maintain national will.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0254par0115	Dear Silver, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0251par0116	I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0255par0118	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0254par0119	Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0255par0120	Mr. Hajip used statements against our Group President, against democracy, against the principles of democracy, against the development of the state of the Republic of Turkey, against democratic legitimacy. I want an answer.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0254par0121	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0255par0125	Mr. President, good lawmakers, knowing that people's own thoughts, their own perceptions, their own mind content, and that their thoughts will not define our reality today without responding to any bullying, we patiently show the work of both CHP lawmakers and AK PARTI MPs, both with patience, with great calm, with great dedication to carry out the legislative activity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is its primary duty. So I thank all the friends. But look, the state of the Republic of Turkey is a democratic, secular, social law state that pays off in the Constitution, and this country has 90 years of savings, has experience, has experience, has a democratic buildup. And he came up here with his own democratic legitimacy in the constitutional framework, disregarding the election, law, law, and in other countries, with his own democratic legitimacy, and he went to the election every two years, and he increased the vote every two years, and he won the nation's spirit in two referendums, and he limited himself to three periods. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, I am returning these words to you, and I do not find them to be appropriate in the presence of this House. And at this hour, I would like to congratulate you all again on your sensitivity, your effort, and your lack of provocation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0256par0131	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the article 27, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's in Article 3. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören 3) The article "National Education Controllers and National Education Controllers and State Education Investigators and Public Education Inspectors' Assistants" in Article 33 (b), dated 10/2/1954 and under Article 6245 of the Harcirah Law, has been changed to "Maarif Inspectors and Maarif Inspectors' Assistants." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 3rd amendment of Article 27 of the Law Bill shall be changed in the following manner, in accordance with the National Education Basic Law, and in accordance with Article 27 of the Constitution. ==Early life==The article "National Education Controllers and National Education Analysts and State Education Investigators and State Education Controllers" in Article 33 (b), dated 10/2/1954 and under Article 6245 of the Harcirah Law (b), has been changed in the form of "Maarif Inspectors and Deputy Inspectors of Maarif. Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Bkent Belen Lütfü Türkkan Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0257par0157	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0256par0158	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's in Article 3. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter (Istanbul) and his friends (3) The article "National Education Controllers and National Education Controllers and State Education Controllers and Assistants of State Education Inspectors" in Article 33 (b), dated 10/2/1954 and under Article 6245, has been changed to "Maarif Investigators and Maarif Investigators." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0258par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0256par0171	Mr. Vahap chooses to speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0259par0174	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. So I made a promise about the motion we made in Article 27. Now, there are significant developments in the country, Mr. Ünal has made some assessments, but really, we're having difficulty understanding the developments. Be assured that both Turkey and the Republican People's Party, the political experience of politicians under the Republican People's Party, the accumulation of democracy, will not cause problems for Turkey's well-being, so Turkey will not be a Ukraine, no one will have any worries. But, you should appreciate that there have been significant developments since December 17th. If anyone can describe this process, anyone who can tell it clearly, let's get it out of here. I don't get it, I'm an idiot, I'm having trouble understanding it, you're not telling it, you're not telling it, you're having problems. The Prime Minister is in on it. Look, now, it started with the ministers. It's a democratic country, it's no one's father's farm, so we're going to the chest, Mr. Ünal said, every four years, we're going to the election in five years. Who came out of the trunk? Sir, we have the national will, we have the majority, we do everything, we make all the laws. There's no need to argue, Mr. Prime Minister, there's no need to argue with Parliament, it's what we say, it's true. There can't be that kind of understanding. Now, the business began with ministers, today's children, Reza Zarrab, the head of this business, were released. Here are the Prime Minister's statements: some parallel judgment, unfortunately they took some very unfair, non-responsive steps. The right has been served. This is a process of judgment. Our involvement as prime minister is out of the question, but the current development shows that many things will be opened up, hopefully. Now, my dear friends, these developments are true, they are not true, the tapes that come out are montage, fiction, fiction, truth; both are sad. Look, when I listened to those tapes, believe me, my blood froze, I felt sorry for the Prime Minister. I said, "If this is real, it's a shame about my country." This country has 90 years of democracy, it's seen many storms, it's seen many hardships, it's seen many borons, it's seen coups, it's experienced democracy, it's had economic crises, we've been through a lot. It's a shame, it's a shame about our savings. Whereas we missed a democratic structure, a democratic state, a transparent, supervised state, a government. If that's the way the painting is now, shame on us. Mr. Prime Minister says they're editing, it's provocation of the parallel structure. He says it's fiction. The Prime Minister's Chief Minister told the armed forces, the national army, that there was a plot. We didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0260par0180	Where are they? Where are they?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0259par0181	We didn't say it today, we said it years ago, we've been saying it for years, but you're saying it today. This is my second source of sadness. Behold! To whom have ye surrendered the state which the people had entrusted? But we thought you were in power in this land for eleven years, and we knew that you were in power, and that power was others.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0261par0182	Twenty years...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0259par0183	Now look, Mr. Prime Minister is in charge of politics. The Prime Minister is trembling from that parallel structure. He says: "My brother is plotting against me. My phones are tapped. The prosecutors of the congregation condemn us with their judges, with their mazansens, with false cases. The Prime Minister says so. Then who's my guarantee? No judgment. Who's got the judge? Judgement is not independent, judgment is not neutral, judgment is in someone's hands. So, who am I to trust as a plain citizen, who am I to lean on? I'm sorry, the state system must be down. There's been a political crisis. The execution, the judgment, the living, I'm sorry, there's no leftovers, no sets. The state system has been licked. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0262par0186	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the number-four joke, which I make you read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of four. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören The Moonbeater Gürkut Acar Kamer Young (4) Number 2/7/1964, the extension of the number number 492 added to the Law on Harms (8) has been removed from the extension of the VII-School diplomas section (2). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the amendment of Article 27 of Article 27 to the amendment to the First Code of National Education and Some Laws and Legislatures. Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Bulent Belen Seyfetttin Yilmaz Emin Çınar The "VII-School Diplomacys" section of "VII-School Diplomacys" was removed from effect, dated 2/7/1964, and added to the Law on Elevens No. 492. Does the Commission agree with the latest motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0263par0209	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0262par0210	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of four. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. The Horseman (Mersin) and his friends (4) Number 2/7/1964, the extension of the number number 492 added to the Law on Harms (8) has been removed from the extension of the VII-School diplomas section (2). Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0264par0222	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0262par0223	Mr. Aytug Horseman is on the motion to speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to close the classrooms in 562 rows, to settle the score with the congregation, and to make a motion on the fourth amendment of the AKP's drafting bill. I pretend to be doing very important work and salute all lawmakers, except the lawmakers who do the dirty work. You think you're doing a very important job with this stuff. It's kind of beautiful, it's very nice, it seems like a job that will completely change the education system, and that's what you're going to say to the public, but I'm making a claim that no one and no one in the AKP MPs that I'm dealing with right now knows what you're changing with it. If anyone knows, let them say so. I don't think a single public defender knows what's been replaced by this substance.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0266par0229	You're the only one who knows!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0230	Since there's no sound, silence comes out of your mouth, you don't know, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0267par0231	We're not taking calls, we're talking.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0232	You're making a change in the Law of Alms, and you're cutting tuition when you're giving diplomas to graduates from high school and equal schools. You're doing a good job. How much do you charge? $6.60. You're making a law to raise $6.60, and you're doing some very important work at this hour of the night! That's how many MPs you've gathered at this hour of the night to raise $6.60. Good, gather round, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0268par0233	That's what you're talking about.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0234	Remove the allowance, we have no objection. Now, without shame, we have removed the tuition from the high schools in the marketplaces. You will preach.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0269par0235	We wouldn't do that.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0236	But I'm going to go around the square and tell them that you made $6.60. Well, these fees, okay, you got them, they're good. It is good for your people, and it is good for me, and it is good for me. Just don't say, "We are doing important things." Once we remove these fees, Mr. Secretary, will the problems of national education be over? You've raised $6.60. Will it be over with the problems of national education? No. Are you going to charge the citizens for cleaning schools and heating schools again? You'll get it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0270par0238	Parents are cleaning up, parents.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0239	You get $6.60, 60 and you get people to pay you back every time. Mr. Secretary, when you raise $6.60, are you going to take out the assistant textbook scandal? Besides, are you going to put up a stand in the schools and stop those subsidiary textbooks from being sold to poor citizens? No. Look, you're lying again. We gave away the textbooks for free. You say, right, but what are you doing? You're putting your hand in the citizen's pocket again under the name of the assistant textbook.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0271par0241	Don't lie. It's not a clean tone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0242	That's why they call you the low-thread, the inner-whole politics. So now people make fun of you, they don't trust what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0272par0243	That's not what people say.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0244	The basic problems of the schools will continue, unfortunately. So, Mr. Secretary, when you remove the classrooms, will the troubles be over? No. The one with the money goes, hires a tutor, and the poor, the one with no money. Brother, be a man! Are you going to deal with the congregation? Here's your check.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0273par0246	We'll learn to be young from you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0247	It's none of our business. Eat each other if you want. Just don't do this on our children, just don't let our children get involved in your dirty reckoning.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0274par0249	We're not using anyone.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0250	With this bill, you're liquidating all the executives. Why?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0274par0251	We're not using anyone, and you're not using them, and we're not.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0252	Fight the congregation. If you're a boy, go out and fight. Why are you doing all this? Who brought these executives here, me or CHP? You brought it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0275par0253	Are you a teenager?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0274par0254	If we brought him, we'll take him. None of your business!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0255	If you brought it back with merit, why are you cleaning it up? It is your understanding that will suffice him. We bring it, we take it. There you have revealed the true face of the AKP.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0276par0256	Speak in a clean language, Mr. Horseman, please don't insult me.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0257	Mr. Recep Special, thank you very much, you've revealed the true face of the AKP, you've blown his cover. We brought it, we'll take it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0277par0258	Keep your advice to yourself.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0278par0259	Okay, you dropped our mask! Okay.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0260	If he came with integrity, these people, you couldn't, but if you didn't bring him back with integrity, I'll ask you to answer for it.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0279par0261	We took him, so why don't you stop him?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0265par0262	Why did you bring these people, why did you bring these people, why did you put them there? Because you were in a state at the time, and now, you're in a world of immigrants. And good luck to you all, the land of Al-Masjid-al-Haram (the Ka'bah at Makkah) (i.e. the Ka'bah at Makkah).
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0280par0264	You're talking nonsense, it's empty.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0279par0265	Come on, block it, block it! Can you stop it?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0281par0266	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Article 27 (a) has two proposals on me, and I read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of five. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. Fatma Nur Serter Ali Haydar Öner Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Gürkut Acar Aylin Nazlıaka A) The subsection of Article 36 of "Partnered Sentences" (A) and "Educatorial Inspectors of Education" (11) in the draft of "A" (A) have been removed from the text of the article "Assistant Inspectors of the State" and "The Office of the Education Controllers of the National Education." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that the 5th amendment of Article 27 of Article 27 of Article 27 to Article 5 of Article 5 shall be changed in the following manner. "a" has been replaced as the "A" subsection of Article 36 (A) and the "Education Controllers of National Education" (11) as well as the "Maarif Investigator of Education" as well as the "Maarif Inspectorate of Education." Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Bkent Belen Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0282par0286	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0281par0287	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0283par0288	Motive.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0281par0289	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of five. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. Fatma Nur Serter (Istanbul) and his friends A) The subsection of Article 36 of "Partnered Sentences" (A) and "Educatorial Inspectors of Education" (11) in the draft of "A" (A) have been removed from the text of the article "Assistant Inspectors of the State" and "The Office of the Education Controllers of the National Education." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0284par0301	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0281par0302	Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0305	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the grand jury. Look, dear lawmakers, we're here again at one o'clock in the night to set up a law. What are we trying to do? We've been monitoring your efforts to close the process of bribery and corruption after the December 17th operation.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0286par0307	No one believes your lies. People don't believe your lies.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0308	What are we doing? Again, we're talking about a new legal arrangement that you've brought in so that you can become your own staff because of your internal conflict. Look, Mr. Fikri Il Il was just here, and when I saw him, I actually remembered a sentence he made yesterday, and he said yesterday: "We make these legal arrangements because we think institutions should be independent, not run by brothers, but by supervisors." Look, I sign this sentence as an expert in human resources and management. (EC PARTY) We want institutions to be independent, and we believe that institutions should be managed in a structurally institutionalized way, not for individuals, but especially today, when we look at the appointments you've made in two hours about HSYK, we find out once again that your main goal is not to run this place, but to let our brothers run it. We already knew that, we already knew that.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0287par0310	Hmm!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0311	It doesn't suit you, I'd like to tell you that I don't think it's appropriate for an entire congressman to be in such a position. As for today's evacuations, today's evacuations are another embarrassment. Are we surprised that Reza Sarraf (Sarraf) and his children are being evacuated? No, we're not surprised. Why aren't we surprised? Today, someone made a statement saying: "We are not surprised by this sentence because the same person had established the sentence after the time of the Sivas massacre; the intellectuals of this country, the commanders of this country, the MPs of this country, the academics of this country, the students of this country were trying to be discredited for long imprisonment, and while they were being tried for false evidence. I am the prosecutor of this case. Why aren't we surprised? Because in a country where our children are sentenced to twenty-seven months for stealing only 27 Turkish liras, the minister's children will be released. Looks like you're trying to get a new law on every tape. But the mud you're in is such a big mud that no matter what you do, you'll never be able to exonerate yourself, precious MPs. Look, today, we're talking about a law on classrooms. Everyone in this room and the people outside knows very well that this is a political decision. Again, everyone knows that the classrooms, in fact, are not a cause of distortion in the educational system, but a consequence. Since you know these things so well, Mr. Mahir Ünal, you don't take words for bullying, and you don't have a clear conscience, I think so.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0288par0314	Oh, please, don't do that, don't do that. I mean, this isn't the place to fight, I mean, it's not like there's a place where people get up and talk and talk.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0315	Look, the fact is, what happens when the classrooms close? Again, it's going to be for the poor, families with high incomes, and they're going to teach their children private lessons. There'll be six classrooms on the stairs.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0288par0316	But you didn't say a word about the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0289par0317	Ms. Aylin, what does the motion say? Please say a sentence, just say a word.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0318	So, you know, you know what this is really about? Elephants kick, grass gets crushed. If you say parallel, parallel, I think some of you actually live in a parallel universe. Otherwise, I think it's never, never, ever possible to be silent against so much injustice, so much injustice. See, what the previous Minister -- the former Minister of National Education -- said about teachers who can't be appointed: I like to think of those who want to be teachers as pigeons waiting in front of the mosque in Eminon. They're waiting for someone to bait them, because my children didn't become civil servants.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0290par0321	Don't insult teachers, don't insult teachers.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0285par0322	People's children don't have a counting machine like someone's kids. They only exist with their labors and their sweats. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0291par0325	I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0292par0326	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0291par0327	I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The second joke (b) based on Article 27 (5) has a motion on it, and I make it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of five. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. Ali Haydar Öner Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Gürkut Acar Kamer Young The Article 152 of Article 152 was changed to the "Investigator of National Education and Controllers" (e.g., section 152 of the section "Ill-Reparations") "A-Secrecy of Special Service" (g) under the scope of the section "A" (g) of the Article 152 (h) and "Ill Education Controllers" (e.g. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0293par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0291par0341	Mr. Ali Haydar will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0294par0344	You're not going to make it at this hour!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0345	Why are you laughing at our friend who says you can't stand it at this hour? You're the one who sighs at this hour, and there's nothing to laugh at, we're talking about the national education issues of the country, and I invite you to be serious! [[Applause from CHP rows, laughing from AK PARTY rows]] Mr. President... Yes, that's the extent of the lack of seriousness!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0296par0349	Please address the General Assembly in connection with the matter, Mr. Öner.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0350	A new reform of the government of reforms is beginning. Mr. Erkan Mumcu, Hüseyin Çelik, Nimet Chubukukur, Omar Dinçer reforms have ended, and now a new education reform begins with Bill 562 rankings. There's no stability in education. A minister comes in, says he's going to do something, with the same party in power, the minister changes while the minister is in power, changing the former minister's actions, starting a new reform. This reform is sometimes about staffs, sometimes the system, and sometimes the concepts. Article 562 of the Law shall be changed to the national education inspector. So it wasn't in vain when we said we'd get out of nationality. So it's only because of the concept of the nationals that you're so disturbed that you're trying to take refuge in the concept of the universe. Dear lawmakers, with reforms, little students were surprised at what they were going to do. The parents are in great shock, the education managers are being purged. One staff is being purged, one is being brought in, and then those brought in are being resolved. No value of grown manpower. No respect for acquishable rights. The rules of the law and the decisions of the court do not apply. Dear lawmakers, the events of December 17th continue. The recruits have been caught, we said where are the masters. The Master's Tapes have been expressed. The formulas to release the recruits were found quickly. With the hasty laws, the current evidence is being blacked out, making it almost impossible to obtain new evidence. The process of decriminalization of acts considered criminal by existing laws continues. In fact, the possession of criminal evidence will be considered a crime at this rate. Our Minister of Science, Industry, Technology and Feelings, Fikri Il, the idea that whatever it was, it would be that he said, "Tapes assembly at the speed of light." I don't know where the divine message came from, where it came from. But does the Minister think that the 8.02 a.m. is a montage? The talks at eleven and seventeen were edited? Were the talks at 3:39 p.m., the talks at 11:15 p.m., the talks with the faint voice, the talks with the lame?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0297par0354	Are you an expert?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0355	Why is there a low voice on the other side? Why does the other side say, "Father, tell me again?" He couldn't tell in the morning sickness. The next day, at 10:58 a.m., Aksaray Police Commissioner, Aksaray Governor is flown to İstanbul Security Directorate, where the judicial decisions will not be carried out.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0298par0357	Don't insult my fellow countrymen.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0358	Likewise, Mr. Minister, how does Mr. Prime Minister in Iconya say he had this conversation? Mr. Secretary doesn't know when or where the Prime Minister is. Members of parliament, with one reform, the lessons of the life of the Qur'an and the Prophet Lord were established. Sier...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0299par0360	Is that bad?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0361	That's very good.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0300par0362	You opposed it, you opposed it, you opposed it!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0363	I wish you'd read it! If you had read them, they would not have asked for it, nor would they have received any unlawful food, nor would they have been supported.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0300par0364	You opposed it, you took it to the Supreme Court; you signed it, and now it's good!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0295par0365	I pay tribute to those who don't commit good deeds, and those who don't carry water to the mills of the thieves.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0301par0367	We're paying our respects, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0369	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The fifth joke (c) based on Article 27 has two proposals, and I read them: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Youth and Sports Commission shall adopt a draft bill "Admitted to the Council of Ministers as the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, which shall be proposed to the Plan and Budget Commission as the Council of Ministers, in the 24/2/2/2014 meeting of some Law and 25th Amendments. Zühal Topcu Mesut Dedeoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Alim Light Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of five. We offer and propose that the joke be changed in the following way. Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören Kamer Young Gürkut Acar Aylin Nazlıaka The Eki (I) Eki (I) has been changed to the II-General Management Service Department (G) (II) Education Controllers (LI). Does the Commission agree with the reading motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0303par0390	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0391	Who's going to talk on the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0304par0392	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0393	I'm reading the reason: The text is intended to be understood. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 12/02/2014, the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission shall draft a draft bill, which has been referred to the Council of Ministers on 27/01/2014 by the Council of Ministers, "International Education Basic Law Act, and 562th Law Charter (/884) under which the Constitution shall be adopted in accordance with the Constitutional Code of Education (1/02/2014), under which the Council of Ministers has agreed to submit its provisions to the Grand National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, as the Plan and Budget Commission's Commission's Commission's proposal, which shall be referred to the 24 and 22/2/2014 by some Laws and 25th Conventions. Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0305par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0306par0405	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0406	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 27 of Article 6 of the article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of six. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter Mahmut Tanal Hasan Ören (6) A proposal from the Executive Board on Article 13 of the Article 6 of the Law on the Offices of the Centre for Measurement, Selection, and Placement No. 6114, dated 17/2/2011, has been removed from the text of the article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that Article 6 of Article 27 of the Law Act 27 be changed in the following way by the National Education Basic Law and by some Laws and Laws. The article "On the proposal of the Board of Directors" was released in the 10th article of the Article 6 of the Law, dated 17/2/2011 and referred to as "Second of the Court of Directors" in the 10th article of the Council of Justice of the Council of Justice of the Council of the Council of Justice of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers." Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Bulent Belen Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0307par0431	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0432	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of six. We offer and propose that the joke be changed as follows. Fatma Nur Serter (Istanbul) and his friends (6) A proposal from the Executive Board on Article 13 of the Article 6 of the Law on the Offices of the Centre for Measurement, Selection, and Placement No. 6114, dated 17/2/2011, has been removed from the text of the article. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0308par0444	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0445	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0309par0446	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0447	I'm reading the reason: The text is intended to be understood. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 27th article (7) and (8) which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following lists of additional (1) and additional (2) shall be changed in accordance with Article 27 of the Law and Law Act. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Yusef Basher Oya Eronat Osman Love Look THE PRODUCTION OF THE MILITARY EDUCATION Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that Article 27 of the 27th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. "The staff listed on Ekli (1) has been cancelled and added to the department of the National Education Department of the Council of Law (I) which has been removed from the Ministry of National Education of the Council of Law No. 190 (I) and is referred to as on the list of staffs listed in addition (2)." Zühal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 562th National Education Act and the 27th Amendment to Some Laws and Laws. It's a matter of seven. We propose and provide that the following sentence be added to the 8th joke to change the joke in the following way. Fatma Nur Serter Kamer Young Mahmut Tanal (7) It was dated 13/12/1983 and was removed from the board of the general staff and the executive department of the National Ministry of Education of the Court of Law on General Staff and the Court of Law 190/1983, titled "Principal Inspector" and "Despector" and "Controller's Assistant" and removed from the board of directors. In addition to the Law of State Officers No.657, Article 8 of the Court of Justice Number IV must be added to the 8th Article of the Court of Appeals in addition to the Maarif Inspectorate of the State. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0310par0487	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0488	I'm reading the reason: The text is intended to be understood. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We propose and propose that Article 27 of the 27th Article of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. "The staff listed on Ekli (1) has been cancelled and added to the department of the National Education Department of the Council of Law (I) which has been removed from the Ministry of National Education of the Council of Law No. 190 (I) and is referred to as on the list of staffs listed in addition (2)." Zuhal Topcu (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0311par0500	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0312par0501	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0502	I'm reading the reason: With this change to be made, it is intended to clarify the narrative. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following lists of additional (1) and additional (2) shall be changed in accordance with Article 27 of the Law and Law Act. Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends PRODUCTION :MUNICATION PRODUCTION : CENTER PRODUCTION: MILITARY PRODUCTION PRODUCTION: Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you proper consideration. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0313par0518	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0314par0519	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0520	I'm reading the reason: The motion envisions re-organising the tablets on abortion and employment in parallel with the changes envisioned in the bill. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The meeting is 562 rows: "We would like to propose and recommend the amendment of the Law of the National Education Basic Law to the amendment of certain Laws and Laws, such as the 28th Amendment. "MADDE 28- This will take effect a year after the publication of the law." With all due respect... Celal Dinçer Fatma Nur Serter Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0315par0535	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0536	I'm reading the reason: A hundred and twenty thousand workers will be affected after this bill is enforced. It would be helpful for employees to plan ahead a year after the law's publication to adjust family conditions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 29 is accepted. Congressmans, we've finished the second chapter interviews. So we've completed the negotiations on the bill.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0316par0543	I want words according to 86.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0302par0544	İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi will speak against him to show the color of the game. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0317par0546	I'll talk to him, too. I need to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0318par0547	Mr. President, we have reached the end of the 29-point bill. The bill has only one positive clause in this 29-point bill, which is the arrangement for the financial inspectors. All other regulations, other than that, are regulations in a democracy that should not be in a democratic state. First, the arrangement for closing or converting classrooms is against the freedom of the initiative written in Article 48 of the Constitution. According to the Constitution, everyone has to work, start a business...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0319par0549	It's in your election statement, too.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0318par0550	Look, you haven't read them. Look, the classrooms don't get shut down by force. You set up a national education system so that you don't need a classroom, we're going to liquidate it like this. You're not building this. Now, there's a market economy in the country that wants to build a human classroom. No, you say you can't. But I'm sorry, you messed that up. I'm looking at it now, and you're saying that the classrooms that exist in the history of the publication of this substance have to be turned into schools by now. It means that after the publication of that substance, the opponent of the concept, the classrooms can be established. Mr. Minister will say: "We have changed the definition in Article 2 of the Special Teaching Institutions Act 5580, and we have removed the classroom from there." Well, he doesn't call it the school, he calls it the center to prepare students for life, he can call it the training centre. The Minister will also say: "In another article we have defined courses, activities that are not prepared for schools are courses, so those who are prepared for school stay out of it." See, the law does not forbid it, the law forbids it, forbids it. After the publication of this law, a person can set up a centre under the name of a central or other name to prepare students for life who are not named "Dershane." You can't prevent it, there's nothing against it, it can't be banned. Such a ban returns from the Constitutional Court, but it is not possible to agree to try to come up with legal obstacles to prevent people from building an attempt. Again, the termination of the executive staff of around 40,000 is in violation of the rule that, as I said earlier, the state of law will be subject to judicial control of the actions and procedures of the administration. According to this, it is possible that when this clause is annulled by the Constitutional Court, 40,000 people will be able to win lawsuits against the administrative court to return to office, and it will be. Please remember that chaos, come back from this when the road is near. The conditions in the arrangement for altitude rights -- the transfer of the treasure to the private classrooms into schools -- are extremely hard to accept in order to be given by the right of altitude in favour of them for 25 years. Let's assume that he's investing 10 million euros, that he can't sue the administration, that if he sues you in any way for the implementation of the contract, you will dissolve the contract, and his $10 million investment will be left in the treasury. It's a rip-off. You're going to say: "This is what the financiers have written. " It's wrong, it can't be such a punishment. If you make a case, I'll take away your school. He's got a hell of a staffing clause. 12 Ministry advisors are taking it, Mr. Secretary. Some of the general managers will take some of the staff and make a minister's advisor. It's not enough, it's the head of the department, it's taking the cast of the group president, about 220 of them. Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do? On the one hand, you're shutting down so many people, you're taking 120 jobs at Construction and Real Estates, you're taking about 100 apartment heads in another place. Again, there will be no record of teachers being sent abroad, except for an interview with the oral exam. You say, "I will favor what I want." Do not imitate the fact that other ministries have done this, and they are wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, I'm ending it here because it's not enough time. I would like to give the bill a positive view of that clause because of its arrangement with the financial inspectors, but to inform you that we will vote no because of these negative regulations. I bid you good night.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0320par0561	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, did you have something to say?
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0321par0563	Sir, I'll make a statement for a minute or two.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0320par0564	According to 60...
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0321par0565	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0320par0566	Here you go, two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0321par0569	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, Ortega Y Gasset says that humanity has no nature, it has history. Let's not ignore the history and savings of national education. The system is forcing you to be an anvil or a hammer right now. You're either gonna be weed, somebody's gonna eat you, or you're gonna eat somebody. He says, "You will give up your dignity, you will have comfort, or you will give up your comfort of honor. "
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0322par0571	Shame!
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0321par0572	And if we create the common sense of horse use, we have to act from the values of horses. So, unfortunately, we have faced a very problematic law, and as a result of this law, I would like to apologize to the governors, assistants, school principals, those who have been dismissed, those who can't seek justice, those whose rights have been used, those who have been victimised by this law. What can I say? Energy laws don't matter in a place where the sun is worshipped. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0323par0576	Thank you. So the negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I read the result of the open vote of the National Education Basic Law and the draft draft of the Law on Amendments under some Laws and Laws: So the bill is accepted and legalized. Now, I'd like to call Mr. Secretary to the stand to give his thank-you speech. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0324par0591	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank you all very much. It's been a long shift, but I hope we've done a good job of blessing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the General Assembly. I want to thank all members of the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. We've done a very well-adjusted and efficient work on the commission. Not that we agreed on everything, of course, but we had different things, but we did a good job. There's been some good work here, except for a few exceptions. Thank you very much. I want to thank my colleagues at the Ministry of National Education for their efforts in the preparation of this bill. I'd like to thank our fellow bureaucrats at the Ministry of Prime Ministership and Finance for their contribution in drafting this bill. I want to thank our members of the House -- they're more tired than we are, maybe more than we are -- and thank you very much. Thank you very much for our press. I wish you well, I give you my regards. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-28sit07spe0325par0599	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will begin talks with the Dair Legislature Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 4th place, confirming the Convention on Crimes in the Virtual Environment. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since it is understood that the commission will not be available in the next legislation billing and proposals, it is Saturday, 1st of March 2014, to discuss other tasks from the commissions, at 14 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00. I bid everyone good night.
