tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement is from Bingol MP İdris Baluken (Idris Baluken), who wants to talk about the SPPE disease caused by measles. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on behalf of our group. I salute you all. I'm going to try to inform the General Assembly on the problems of patients and relatives who are suffering from subakut sclerozan panencephalitis (SSPE) in this extracurricular speech. Recently, a few weeks ago, we had brought here a motion to investigate the SSPE disease; we had called for sensitivity to the Parliamentary General Assembly regarding the sufferings of patients and the problems of families, and we had suggested that a research commission be set up. But, unfortunately, with the ruling party's numerical majority, our motion to investigate was rejected with their shield fingers. After the research motion was rejected, valued MPs, these families came to Ankara. They visited almost all political groups, and as far as I know, they also visited the EC PARTY group and expressed that they expected a sensitivity from the political institution concerned with their own problems. In this SSPE disease, it's impossible to be insensitive when you listen to the pictures of children in families' bags, in their pockets, because children of life energy have become practically living funerals, and they've faced very serious problems with medicine, access to medicine, treatment, family social problems, unfortunately. We, in particular, spoke about this, in our conversation here, suggested that the Minister of Health have a meeting with these families, that the Minister of Family and Social Policy get together on a date with these families, and learn about them first-hand. So far, unfortunately, despite the fact that we've made this call from here -- we're repeating the same call today -- the Minister of Health hasn't spoken to these families, nor has the Minister of Family and Social Policy met with these families, and what are their problems? What are the problems with patients? What can be done within the ministry? They did not run an agenda at the point. In fact, we would expect the ministers to meet, and we would expect, for an hour, the opposition parties to present their views here in the House, at least in the ministry, to have a delegation of these delegations to visit these children, to visit their families, to tell the children that they have a past, and that we will be making an effort to resolve your problems, but, unfortunately, so far, we want to say that there is no effort. These families have some demands. I've mentioned earlier that there are more than 300 cases of SSPE in the region, including Siirt, Batman, Şırnak, and they have problems finding children's neurologists, specialists, who are going to receive treatment. I mean, there's no children's neurologists in the whole area, so even in the slightest trouble, the patients are left with their destinies, unfortunately. In this regard, SSPE clinics can be established in hospitals, some arrangements for the employment of children's neurologists, some social, psychological support for families, and some mechanisms to address their problems with access to drugs. But, unfortunately, it hasn't been done until today, so we're trying to get the Council's attention back here today so that it can be done from now on. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this disease we're talking about is a disease caused by vaccination. I'm not going in there for long, but I'd like to share an emergency alert with you. Especially in the camps and cities where Syrian refugees live, there are serious problems with access to vaccines. Family physicians can't find a vaccine. Protective practice is almost over. Believe me, we hear the footsteps of the Soma. In a few months, we will face a major epidemic, hundreds of dead citizens, and full-fledged hospital corridors. At this time, we face a great deal of danger in these camps, where both immigrants face and the people there face, unless they are vaccinated until ▪leishmania, measles, or consumption. In this matter, I invite the Ministry of Health and Parliament to sensitivity. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Malatya MP Öznur Çukık, who wants to talk about World Population Day. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment on July 11th, World Population Day, and I salute the High Council. Since 1987, the United Nations has celebrated July 11th as the Population Day each year. On this occasion, I have made a promise to draw attention to our policies as it is the Population Day of July 11th. Starting with my words, today's civil wars in Arab countries and the slaughter of our Muslim brothers are deeply upsetting to us. In Gaza, especially since the beginning of Ramadan, Israel has committed genocide against the Palestinian people. As with all wars and crises, unfortunately, when we look at the murdered population, the deaths of women and children are still at a very high stage. As the Great National Assembly of Turkey's Population and Development Group, I wish to end this human drama in the Middle East in the month of Ramazan, to obey international laws, to bring peace and peace to the region and brotherhood as soon as possible. Dear lawmakers are the most important factor in the existence of a state that constitutes a state, because its state is the nation and its nation is the population. Today, a lot of research is being done about the future of the world's population. As of 2014, the world's population, which is 7 billion, 145, is estimated to exceed 9 billion in 2050. China, India and America have the largest population, respectively, when we look at the dissolution of the world's population. As of 2013, our country has 76 million,667 thousand people, and we are in the 19th place in the world. By 2050, the population of our country will reach the highest level of 93 million, and our rank in the world will be 20. By the year 2075, Turkey's population will be 89 million people and we will see very clearly that Turkey's population is waning. The most important change in age structure will take place in child-old balance, and for the first time in 2050, the number of elderly will reach the number of children. At 2.1 percent of the world's older population increases, we see that the overall population growth rate is 1.2. This shows that the global aging process -- demographic transformation -- is happening very quickly, while the percentage of children and young people in the population is shrinking, the percentage of the elderly are increasing dramatically. As the older population is high -- it's been withdrawn from production, it's had a huge increase in pension populations, and the population that will be involved in production is largely reduced -- we observe that the economy is running low on labor. In 2000, each 100 children will be aged 33 years, while in 2050 each 100 children will receive 101 elderly ones. This is a very serious threat. As a precaution, developed countries apply various policies to make their aging population dynamic; Germany, Italy, France, Sweden, Israel, are implementing very serious population growth policies, and Israel even gives a state medal for children. The only way to establish a stable population policy is to avoid lowering the rate of fertility by 2.1, or lowering the gold. When developed countries such as the United States, France, Norway saw the rate of fertility dropped to less than 2 percent in the 2000s, they took immediate measures and raised it to over 2 percent by applying effective population policies directly. My fellow lawmakers, when we look at our country, we see that 30 years after the declaration of the republic, the policies that promote fertility were abandoned. And eventually, since the 1950s, there has been a significant decline in fertility rates, which has been accelerated especially in the 1970s. And in a period of about thirty years, it has shown a 61 percent reduction. My fellow lawmakers, as a government, we are following very serious incentives for population growth. In particular, according to all scientific analysis and statistics, in order to protect the young population of Turkey, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that each family must have three minimum children, and must be required, not to fall below 2.1 per cent of gold. It's not just the Prime Minister's words, it's also... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...scientific analysis and statistics.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0004par0038	I speak to all the young people here, saying, "Make at least three children for yourself, for your wife, and for the future of our country, and I salute the great assembly."
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0006par0040	Erdogan said it must be necessary.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0007par0041	How are you going to look at 800 liras?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0008par0042	Mr. Burek, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0007par0043	Not everyone's salt is dry.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0008par0044	The third non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Levent Gökil, who wants to talk about Ankara's problems. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0009par0047	Mr. President, I'd like to start by saying that I still haven't been able to respond to 214 of my motions to the Parliamentary Presidency regarding the problems of Ankara province. Whenever a rain falls, we face a scene that paralyzes Ankara's life. This is the result of the closure of Ankara's streams, a city famous for its ties and streams in the past, and nature takes revenge on Ankara. In Ankara Tea, 140km long, the oxygen ran out, precious MPs. While the destruction of Ankara's rivers, the natural state of its streams and streams should be exposed and reformed, the closure of its superiors has forced Ankara to be condemned to floods in every rain. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek, who sentenced Ankara to the flood, has put Ankara's people in a very difficult position with the presidential company presidential GAZ. There are currently many dwellings that cannot be connected to because of the problems with the transportation and floor lines of the President. Dear lawmakers, such a clumsy government punishes the people of Mamak who cannot vote for it, changes bus routes and punishes thousands, hundreds of thousands of Mamakians. Since the subway lines in Ankara do not include ring trips, Ankarans cannot reach their homes even though they are taking advantage of the subway. THE problems with TOKI housing have reached enormous proportions. Projects in the artificial Northern Ankara Urban Transform are almost at the point of collapse. The mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor is banishing many of his municipal employees to foreign counties due to political differences, dismantling them from their families and their working lives. Mr. President, good lawmakers, because of the immigration, the population of all the districts of Ankara, the entire district of my district, has been reduced by half, and farming and livestock are nearly dead in these districts. Many public institutions in the districts of Ankara's Evren, Koçhisar, Haymana, Polatlı, Bala have had to leave them; hospitals have been closed, military branches have been closed; the court has been closed, the district election board, the cadastro administrations have been closed; the energy units have been shut down and have been subscribed to other districts miles away. In transport-educating institutions, the school has come up with a highly inadequate picture of class equipment. There is absolutely no officer available to assist students in transport vehicles. The village roads are constantly broken down, and the destruction of the village's vehicles here has taken on far too much to describe from here. Dear lawmakers, grain prices are still unaccounted for. Due to the closing of the municipalities in the region, all villages are now a pile of garbage. Transport services have stopped. Polatlı and Haymana, one of the most important districts in Ankara, were not transformed into a cultural tourism centre -- our districts in which the Sakarya wars were fought. The Mehmetchik Memorial and the museum in Polatlı have turned into ruins. The Gordion Museum is in ruins, where the Minister of Culture must take over immediately. The remnants of the Hitith in Hamana Gavrkale have almost reached the point of decay. Although the healing springs and spas in Haymana are a very important hot spring in the world, Haymana has not been given to tourism, and Haymana has yet to earn its economic value. The flamingo paradise at Lake Salt has turned into a flamingo cemetery. Although Salt Lake, one of the most important incubators in the world, is Turkey's second largest lake, it is still nearly in the institution due to water policies and projects. Although our Bala district is very rich in plaster beds, these rich mineral deposits are not considered from our districts near Ankara. Once again, the andezit quarry in Lakebaşı district must be brought into Lakebaş economy. Most Ankara counties have a sewer network malfunctioning, not being repaired, and epidemics are under way. The water tanks are inadequate and the villagers are dehydrated. The price of water is increased because of the electric pump. Electricity, often cut by malfunctions, reduces the quality of life. Mr. President, it's not possible, of course, to describe Ankara, who has enormous problems in these five minutes, but in five minutes, the issues I'm telling you are really important, and I'm putting an end to my commitments by drawing the government's attention to this point, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0010par0059	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'll make a promise to the group presidents. Mr. Oktay Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0011par0064	Thank you. Mr. President, in particular, the terrorist groups that the AKP guides have been feeding during the developments in Syria are unfortunately continuing their persecution of the Turks in Iraq and their persecution of the children of this nation. In this framework, the pressure of the Turkmens, in response to the removal of their homes, was attended by our Hamiyetperver citizens to the Turkmeneli campaign, and the National Institute of Culture and Education took the help gathered under this relief campaign to the Turkish Border Gate of Habur to take it to Turkmen. While this help is being given, AFAD and Kızılay collect these benefits, we will help the Turks to transfer them to Iraq. Despite what they say, unfortunately, the head of the Ülkü January Foundation, aid trucks are left alone, there is no official of the state, no official of the state, no AFAD. Government officials have left the help to go to these Turkmen all alone, so whatever you do about the transfer to Iraq, you take it yourself. Where's the government? Inside this state, they threaten drivers, outgoing aid convoys, Turkmen, but where is the security of this state, where is the governor, where is the Home Secretary? Why are these aid trucks preventing Turkmen from being delivered to the government? Where's AFAD? Where's Red Moon? In this regard, we would like to urge the government to take these aid trucks to the Turks and provide security and to take the organization to its destination. Before that, we help the AFAD and the Red themselves. The words were then blocked by political purposes as a result of their consultation with Ankara. I condemn this obstruction. I invite the Government of Turkey, which represents the sovereignty of the Turkish nation, to be ensured that this aid convoy for the Turks, who need a bite of bread, will be delivered there immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0012par0069	Thank you. I don't think there's any more. Yeah, we're moving on. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a statement about the extradition of the bill, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: dated 13/5/2014 and 31853594-101-965-2172. In addition to our interest, I would like to request the approval of the Charter of Preferenced Trade between the Member States of the United States of the United States of Turkey to be sent back under Article 75 · Global Voices of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The bill in the Foreign Affairs Commission has been restored. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Instead of solving the unemployment problem, which has been promised for many years, it has been at the top of more and more exploited issues. Despite promises by the AKP that unemployment will be fought and unemployment will be terminated in 2002, our country's unemployment numbers are growing day by day and naturally unemployment numbers trigger poverty, creating a system of poverty management in our country. The steps said to take on unemployment remain in the words, and hopes are being exploited. It is proven by the data of Turkey's Statistical Agency (TİK) and NGOs that the colonial policies are growing stronger every day and have begun to dominate society. Every new baby that opens its eyes to life in the light of its announced unemployment figures and economic policies is born into the future, where its perception of despair and darkness and exploitation is increasing. Instead of giving jobs to young people or unemployed people who want to be rewarded for their hard work, poverty has been created, and poverty is ruled by a profit policy. The most basic principle of fighting poverty is to increase unemployment rather than end it. We are witnessing the lost lives and tomorrows of poverty and unemployment almost everywhere in our homes. Although statements have been made from the government wing that our country is growing economically, unfortunately, unemployment and poverty are increasing rather than our country's prosperity level. Furthermore, the youth unemployment rate and the unemployment rate with diplomas are increasing rather than diminishing. In research, we also live in the area of young unemployment, one of the first to be considered a disgrace to our country. So in order to reduce the number of unemployed people in our country, increase employment and determine how to take employment measures, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 3) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Çanakkale]] 8) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] 17) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] 20) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 21) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İzmir]] The fight against poverty and unemployment is one of the main and primary tasks of the state. In our country, the problem of poverty is ruled by poverty, rather than by being exploited and seeking to benefit from the problem. The fight against poverty is not developed by leaving it to NGOs, local governments and philanthropic citizens. People are adapting to the assistance provided at work and are prevented from gaining individual freedom. The unemployment figures are growing, and instead of employment investments, aid is being made, and unemployment is considered a destiny. In short, unemployment is being held captive by being excluded from activities that will satisfy people's basic needs. One's freedoms are captured by these policies, condemned to poverty, convinced that it is his destiny, and led by the understanding of exploitation created by poverty. The AKP, which is ruling in Turkey on the charge that it will end poverty, corruption and unemployment, aims to manage poverty, as it cannot solve any of the problems, by getting the people accustomed to poverty. The goal of managing poverty is to play with the dignity of the people, and it's being distilled through poverty. There are also allegations of corruption related to aid, and there is no study or evidence to refute the allegations or to contradict the allegations. With the figures announced by the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization (OECD), we have reached the top of our youth unemployment by signing another embarrassment we are accustomed to during the AKP's rule. With the shame we face, the number of unemployed graduates who spend their youth on tests every day, who work for the light of hope, which is getting shorter every day in the name of their future, is increasing, and the community is suffering a great deal with increasing unemployment. In 2002, there were 69,512 prisoners and prisoners in prisons, while the number reached 132.60 in April 2012. In addition to the unemployment problem, prisons are filled with debtors and unemployed citizens. The order, where unemployment is punished and punished for crime at work, where one of all ages is punished and left to die, is proved to be surrounded almost all over our country by iron bars. Instead of maintaining family integrity, the AKP is disintegrating power and the problems it raises as a result of families being torn apart, the seeds of hatred and hatred are planted in society instead of love. The number of divorces, which were 95,323 in 2002, is grown year after year, and we are experiencing social tragedies that resulted in the divorce of only 120,117 couples in 2011. The above explanations show that there is no permanent, planned action on unemployment and poverty and to resolve the problem. There are wages set under the poverty and hunger limit, and in the youth that families hope to have a job by reading a narrow range, the rates give them despair and unhappiness rather than hope. As a result, at this point, it is imperative that we determine which policies should be followed to reduce unemployment and ensure that people live above the minimum living standards. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly City Law 5393 was published in the Official Gazette on 13.07,2005. With this law, City Law 1580 has been eliminated. With the new City Law, the municipality has been able to expand its borders with Article 11 of the City Code. Under Article 11 of the law and the municipality has been able to apply to the Ministry of Interior and to adopt the State's opinion of the State of State in its form to make any village a one-sided neighborhood for abstract reasons such as "determinate general infrastructure services and general zoning order." However, Law 1580 and Article 8 of Law 5393 also have a referendum option to join the villages in the municipal borders. This is how the practice has been done in the past years. Despite the 8th amendment of Law 5393, Article 11 has been intended for the European Local Administrations of 1992, which was adopted by Turkey, to make the village that municipalities wanted to build in vehemently. Unfortunately, after the adoption of the law, the 11th article has been seen to be used in a way that is unintended. The 11th article of this law was used politically by AKP municipalities ahead of the 2009 local elections, and the villages, which voted highly for the AKP in 2007 and pre-election, were held as part of Article 11 and were allowed to vote as mayor in the 2009 municipal elections. In Bolu alone, 17 villages where the AKP won 65 per cent and more than 65 per cent of the vote in the last election (2007 local elections) were made by a single decision, while Bolu's 69,000 voters were raised to 86,000, as a result the AKP won the municipal election by 1.800 votes. This example practice in Bolu has been repeated in many provinces of Turkey. For political reasons alone, hundreds of villages have become practically villages, but the municipality, which is newly included in service, cannot serve in the province's private administrations because it has no legal personality. Our people who live in these areas still live like peasants, but are taxed like city folk. With a unilateral decision, the municipalities do not serve our local villagers, but they also receive a share from the County Bank for our people. The problems of our people who are being forced to work in these new neighborhoods are huge. As part of Article 5393 of Law, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to determine the problems of our municipalities, zoning, infrastructure, social and economic. [[Bolu]] 2) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Balıkesir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 6) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] [[Çanakkale]] 17) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions that our disabled citizens are facing in our country, we respectfully propose and provide a parliamentary examination of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and TBM Institution. 1) The Cervix of Love [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 5) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Army]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Sakarya]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 21) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] In our country, we have about 10 million disabled citizens. These citizens face serious problems from education to health, from transportation to work life. However, the lack of steps to resolve these problems leads to further problems, while new problems arise on the other hand. Making arrangements for disabled citizens to live up to human dignity is one of the most important needs of the social state. Although our constitution has provided positive discrimination regulations regarding the disabled, these provisions have not been carried out. As part of the social government principle, our country has a poor GPA in support of the disabled. At the top of the most important problems facing disabled citizens are the inadequacies and restrictions on the participation of disabled people in their working life. Despite the law and all other regulations in working life, disabled citizens, who are unable to find a place in the way they deserve, feel that the principle of the social state is not applied against them. In public institutions and institutions that need to be a guide and an example, it is impossible to understand that disabled persons are not employed at the same rate mentioned in the laws, or even that some public institutions and institutions do not have any disability. According to official data, a large portion of the disabled staff is not being used. In addition to employment, our disabled citizens in Turkey face major problems in everyday life. In particular, domestic transportation is one of the biggest problems of our disabled citizens. In the use of high sidewalks, signalless traffic lights, buses, vans, subways, and other rail transport vehicles, the lack of sufficient consideration for disabled citizens has brought our citizens to the point of rebellion. On the other hand, the Law on Absorbeds, dated July 1, 2005, made it necessary for local governments to be able to make all public structures, all available roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports areas and all kinds of structures built by real and legal persons, in line with the accessibility of disabled citizens. The law also decrees that city municipalities and municipalities take the necessary measures to ensure that public transport services offered within the city or under their control are accessible to disabled persons, while the existing private and public transport vehicles are accessible to the disabled within seven years of July 7, 2012. However, a few days before the seven - year period expires, the work appears to be largely incomplete. In this framework, the issue of Law Proposal 302 is on the agenda of the Grand Board of Ministers, where the deadline will be extended for a year. However, given the recent seven-year performance of AKP governments, unfortunately, we do not have an optimistic view of the effective and efficient use of the next year. In this framework, we feel that the issue needs to be addressed in detail with a parliamentary survey to address the problems our disabled citizens face immediately. It's been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Wednesday 9/7/2014 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. In an effort to determine the measures for which the problems of van owners and employees should be taken by Samuel MP Haydar Akar and 22 MPs (914 rows) have been submitted to the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey on 22/5/2013. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in Wednesday's Wednesday (9/7/2014), and held in the same dated combination of its talks. Mr. Haydar Akar is the first speaker in favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0013par0270	Mr. President, I'd like to bring to your attention a matter that sits on Turkey's agenda after the March 30th local elections, where no one is really very interested, but is having problems every day in every city of Turkey. In fact, on November 23, 2013, I had once again had an off-the-top conversation about the problems of our van owner, but these problems continue to grow a little more and more every day. Now, when we look at this business group, it's not really a business group. So in the 90-year history of the republic, the problems of this trade group have never been discussed in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and there is no such event. When we look at this business group, we've put all of the government's duties, the social government's duties on them. I'd like to talk about a tradesman group, van drivers, who go out at 6:00 a.m., do all sorts of work, deal with all kinds of people in the community, from their students to their employees, from their employees to their postmen. Now, these van drivers only get up at six in the morning and don't work until one in the morning, and they don't have vacations on weekends and weekends, and they do. So, basically, they're public servants, and we give the worst routes to these friends in cities where the city doesn't usually serve, and we make them work here. We'll do something else, which is the most exposed to traffic tickets in our budget, along with the truckers. In general, these tradesmen are constantly under constant pressure from the police and the police for doing domestic transport; they are constantly punished by the police; there are passengers on their feet; there are passengers on their feet; there are passengers on their way; they are missing their shrouds in their car; for reasons like this, they are constantly punished. And to this group of merchants, we entrust our children, our lives, and it's a group like this that we have to rely on, but when we get in the vehicles, it's a trade group where citizens fight the most, snore the most, snore the other, and do public work. About 167,000 people in Turkey are members of this trade group, and with their families, the bread of about 1 million people is covered by this van driver and the work of the van company. Again, in my town, there are about 2,180 vans running and there are van shops and 600,000 people taking advantage of these mass transports. Now, after all we've told you, what's the biggest problem with these tradesmen? Look, there's one thing everyone's missing, they're carrying about 15 professional groups for free, and they're carrying all three trade groups on sale. What's with the 15 trade groups? Here are the people who have professional groups such as the police, the gendarmes, the police, the police, the disabled, the veterans, the martyr family, the yellow press cards, or these cards for free, and today, with a change that you've made in the 2013 7th month of Law 4736, about eight months after the change you've made, they've started carrying 65 years and more for free, with regulations that you've issued before the 30 March election. Yeah, they're 65 years old and carrying it for free. Look, 8 per cent of Turkey's population is 65 years old and over. In my science, about 275,000 people receive discounted benefits as teachers and students; there have been 90 thousand people before, with 65 years of age and 110 thousand free use of transportation services. Now, you're going to say, "So are you against it?" No, we're not against it, you can do it on a social basis, but you have to pay for it. Look, you don't treat 65 for free in government hospitals. The baker doesn't give his bread away for 65 years. Again, when you go to the coffee shop, when you drink your tea, he doesn't drink free tea at 65 and above. No matter what professional group you sing... a 65-year-old citizen goes to a barber's shop, goes to a hairdresser's, he doesn't get his free hair cut again. There is such a thing, 65 years old and over... about 6 million people in Turkey are taking advantage of it for free, while 15 trade groups are taking advantage of it for free, as well as the professional group I just counted. I'll say it again from my own town. Earlier, 20,000 people took advantage of the work in the Ezekiel, while in other trade groups, along with 65 years of age, went up to 110 thousand. So, what's this business group gonna do? I mean, how are they going to do all of the government's burdens, the worst routes, where they get the least profit, where there's at least a passenger? I got a call the other day, 12 people over 65 in the same vehicle and they're taking it all down. Now, the police are forcing cars to stop, pressuring and even beating people who don't carry 65 for free. Look, this photo isn't very clear. This is how police beating was displayed. Co-op President Mehmet Mal was laid down, kicked. Vice President Cetin Alkan. He calls it pepper spray. This picture was taken in the district of Gölcuk, Kobeeli Province, Turkey. That's because they don't carry 65 for free. Which one will he carry for free? These are professions, like any other group of professions. I mean, you get these guys to move for free so we can get votes on March 30th just for populism. Of course, as I just said, they can carry 65 for free, they can carry other trade groups for free, they can even carry everyone for free. If the government takes over the social state, if it somehow finances the income that this job and our friends have lost, of course they can. I have suggestions for him, and I'll tell you about them in my speech. That's not the end of the problems with the van guys. Again, in a law that you passed, you predicted that the ramps would be built for the disabled, and that was the right law. But when the ramp was being built, you gave 4-5 licenses to companies, 4-5 companies that are ramping up from $15,000 to old cars. In fact, it costs $2,500, but it makes a ramp for 15,000 TL. Those who have to change new vehicles pay $150,000, $200,000 for not being licensed. That's not enough, they'll have to remove the seats to build the ramp. These van brothers, who pay for the municipality between $4 and $28,000 per seat, both lose their income and don't get back the money they paid the city. They're really in big trouble. Again, build ramps for those who are blocked. You say. Okay, let them, but when the disabled go and buy a car from a dealership, you don't buy the SUV, which is true, but when you tell the van driver to build a ramp, change the vehicle. When you say, "Cry and you take the VAT" and the VAT. Another dimension, van drivers not only carry civilian passengers, but also students. Look, the car carrying students pays 8 per cent VAT, but the van driver pays 18 per cent VAT in the winter months, even though he carries students. Guys, we're talking about a really troubled professional group. Now some solutions can be produced for these. For one thing, the driver who wants to change cars because of this ramp can't be taken away from the van shop by his friends. Again, it may not be taken from the diesel by 25 per cent, 18 per cent, that we will get free transport and that they may be able to carry these trade groups, as we call them, as a social state. Again, one of the biggest problems is the recent card problem, the electronic cards used in municipalities, the pass cards, the pre-loaded cards. And that's the right... it's the right thing to do, it's the age-wise, but they give it to a company that's the ÜKOME Ways of municipalities, they cut 5 per cent of this money, they cut 5 per cent of its daily earnings, and they earn trillions. At the same time, they pay them on weekdays, but they don't pay them on the weekend, so they stay in their own pockets and take advantage of their interest. Yeah, the problems I've been telling you... it's really one of the biggest problems of the trade group, again, traffic insurance. When you look at traffic insurance, you also have increased your traffic insurance by 300 per cent, with the changes you made last year or the changes you made earlier this year, to 600 liras, 500 liras, and a thousand euros, and therefore to pay 3,000 TLs and 5,000 TLs. I mean, what I'm trying to say is, you've got eyes in the van guy's pocket. You're trying to get the money you have in your pocket, with traffic insurance, with a ramp, with free transportation. Instead of getting in the van, you get on the back of the van and you keep getting votes. I hope before these elections, I hope you don't want any more sacrifices than the van drivers before the next general election, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0014par0291	Thank you. The first speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Mr. Ahmet Arslan, Kars MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0015par0294	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I'd like to start by welcoming all of you. We listened to the speaker about the opening of the Republican People's Party's parliamentary inquiry motion, and frankly I was amazed to hear it. Why did I listen astonished? The vans are 14+1, including the driver, 15 people, 14 public transport vehicles carrying passengers. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy, along with Law 4736, issued under Law 5378, has two regulations: One under the Law of Accessibility Watch and Control, one under the Free Mass Transport Rule. In the framework of these two regulations, there is a discounted transport of 16+1 people, including his driver, passing 17 people. Vans are 14 plus 1 people, so they're 15 people. In any of the vans, there are 17 or 15 occupational groups mentioned in this motion, plus 15 of the three professional groups, and there are absolutely no discounts on 3 of them. There is no such discount because they are under 17. I'll say a few words about the van guys. I know the van guy pretty well. Vans are medium-sized transport vehicles, in the sense that public transportation is complementary. Why? You take people somewhere by subway, by train, by rail, by rail system, and you deliver them to the slums more than that, by vans. So the van driver, as the witness said, continues to serve until midnight, at five in the morning. And, again, the van driver has another problem: the van driver is like a grocery store, I don't work today. He can't say: weekend, holidays, holidays, holidays, he's at the service of our people all the time. We are aware that, as a government aware of this, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is meeting with all these ministries, with the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, with TOFED, along with the Association of Vansmen, with the law against the manufacturers, especially those disabled, as part of the work to create a one-metre pool for disabled vehicles that will take place in the area of service in 2018. While we're doing this arrangement, we're certainly developing solutions to not victimize the van-driver shop. Here, along with the institutions that I've just counted, there are arrangements for both the needs of our shopkeeper and the needs of our disabled, which are being done until July 2018. There is absolutely no need for separate research proposals and commissions while these studies are being conducted, I assure you of that. Again, I say again: The speech was set up for free transport to the 15 trade groups, the 3 occupational groups, from beginning to end. There is absolutely no such application in vans under 16 seats, which is 14+1, and we have just confirmed it with our Kobeeli MPs. There is absolutely no such practice throughout Turkey. That's for people above 17 seats.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0016par0301	Come on, let's go! For God's sake, talk straight, you're fasting, talk straight! It's in all of them. Pity!
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0015par0302	The vans are 14+1, so there's no such app in 14+1, I'm telling you, ma'am.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0017par0303	They do, they do, they all do.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0015par0304	I salute the disabled, the van-driver, and you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0018par0306	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0019par0307	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0018par0308	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0019par0309	Mr. President, by twisting what I'm saying, by reducing it to 14+1, I'd like to correct that there are no free passengers.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0018par0310	Here you go. Two minutes, there's teasing.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0019par0314	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, you spend your life cheating on a citizen. You spend your life cheating on a citizen, I'll tell you once again. Who did you talk to? Where is 14+1 van in the family? All of them have 15+1 and more transportation. All of the people, the profession groups that I just mentioned, are taking advantage of these jobs for free. Again, you're coming, you're being cunning here. We don't carry them for free because Haydar Akar says they're minibusters. You're making me drive for free. You're gonna tell people the truth. Let's face it, the van guys don't carry vans. There are 167,000 bus- 15+1 city transports. Did you confirm that, too, or did you check it out? Please take a look and then come to this stand and give people accurate information. You can't cheat people. They won't be fooled. From now on, these people, these trade groups, they're for you. I say don't cheat people by lying everywhere, saying things that aren't true. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0020par0318	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0320	Mr. President, I need to make a very brief statement because my words have been distorted as well.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0020par0321	You want to talk about bullying?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0322	Yes, sir, without teasing.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0020par0323	On what grounds?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0324	Sir, he's lying about me... he's twisted my words, orator.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0020par0325	Here you go. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0328	Mr. President, if you're aware, I haven't spoken very long, I won't speak very long again. I, in my experience, have never stood on the stand and talked nonsense. I talk to interested parties, I investigate relevant legislation, I come and talk accordingly. If it's 17 and over, it's a public transport vehicle, a city bus, a private public bus. If it's under 17, if it's 16 and it's 14+1 like it's in Turkey right now, it's filled up or called a van, the legislation regulates it. It's full, and I talked to the van guys. It's full and there's no such app in the van. There's an app over 17.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0022par0331	That's what I'm saying. Is there or isn't there?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0332	I certainly didn't misinformation your preparedness, didn't inform you about it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0023par0335	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0024par0336	Mr. President says I'm talking nonsense.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0337	I didn't say anything to you, I said nothing.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0023par0338	Mr. Akar, I don't talk nonsense. Let me take a look at the reports, I don't talk nonsense.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0021par0339	I said I don't talk nonsense.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0025par0340	From here, from where I stand, if he knew about the world, I could swear to anything, he doesn't know the world.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0023par0341	Mr. Akar, don't be angry, let's calm down.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0025par0342	He's talking for free; I'm making it clear.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0023par0343	Okay, well, let's just calm down. In favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal, the final speaker is Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0026par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the motion to investigate the problems of the van and the driver's shop and to determine the solutions. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the driving profession is increasingly difficult in the face of increasing problems. The driver's shop is able to drive long and endless roads by driving for hours and hours with a great deal of difficulty. The driver's shop, which struggles so hard to cross the long roads to deliver its loads to its owners, is also affected by civil wars in neighbouring countries. Our neighbor, 32 truck drivers in the civil war in Iraq, were taken hostage by ISIS forces on June 10th, and were just released. That's one of the things that our chauffeur tradesmen suffer, one of the challenges. Our driver's shop works every day on the road, putting his life on the line. In addition to their problems with bureaucracy, they also have great problems with safety on the road and in the countries they go to. Mr. President, I'd like to briefly address the recent events here in Iraq and the damage done to the Turkish economy. Turkey's exports with Iraq declined by 21 per cent in June. Iraq is the second largest market with $12 million a year in exports, and thus the narrowing of this market here affects our driver's business and Turkey's economy in a negative way. Our Turkish businessmen identified Iraq as the most commercially employed place after Turkmenistan, with $5 billion, and they concentrated their work here. Now, about $10 billion in exports are at risk in Iraq. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in addition to life and property security, expensive fuel prices and high tax rates are at the top of the most important problems of the driver's business. The diesel used by the driver's shop is 4,700-4 today. It's up to 800 liras. The price of diesel is constantly increasing in Turkey. The driver has a great deal of trouble living and bringing bread to his family, whose earnings have been greatly reduced in the face of tax and high fuel prices. The tradesman experiences the greatest challenge of his life on the subject of the document. The driver's shop pays high wages and taxes to public institutions and institutions for several documents. Our tradesman is also experiencing major problems among his colleagues because of the difficulties caused by legislation. Some regulations made by the government have brought the driver's trades against each other in many places and have not been able to present the competition in a healthy way. Therefore, arrangements for our driver's business must be made with the rooms that our shopkeeper is in, the ideas of the rooms must be taken, the experiences of the rooms must be used. In our country, there are some discrimination among the driver's trades in cheap fuel. This must be eliminated by the government. No one has the right to give cheap diesel to a tradesman on the one hand and give him expensive diesel and ruin the competition, the profit environment. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the driver who registers in the Sea Chamber of Commerce, are taking advantage of the discounted fuel and moving passengers by lowering their inputs. The driver's shop, which belongs to the same district and the same district, cannot benefit from the discounted fuel. Adding tax rates on expensive parts prices, such as expensive fuel and costs, some drivers' trades are forced to turn to illegal fuel or burn oil instead of diesel in their vehicle. As the High Assembly, we must find solutions to the deepening and increasing problems of our chauffeur tradesman. These are not the only problems of our driver's shop, who is trying to spend his life on the road, behind the wheel, by himself, with a lot of difficulty. These problems occur in Kahramanmarash, as in all Turkey. As in all cities, the tradesman is miserable, fuel prices are high, spare parts prices are high, stop prices are high, line prices are so high, he's walked as far as he can, and he's become uncompetitive, unable to start a new tradesman. Under Highway Transport Law 4925 and Highway Transport Regulations, there are 41 different authorizations for the driver's trade. For these documents, the merchant pays separately, deposits separate fees, and waits separately, for months, sometimes for years, at the door of the bureaucracy, and the driver's shop is despised. The driver's shop, which goes on long roads, is stopped at every corner and has to answer the paperwork. Our driver's shop, who is unlucky with expensive fuel, is having a lot of bad luck, especially when it comes to turning on the road route. As the number of licenses increases, so does the financial burden of the driver's business. The laws and regulations practices in question have put a lot of pressure on the driver's shop. In particular, the problems of the trucker's shop, which is required to obtain a K1 warrant, have increased greatly under the D4 authority document, as well as the tradesman's section. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, under the road transport regulations, the license of our driver's shop must be taken from the vocational rooms, because they are professional rooms that know about it. Of course, the vocational rooms know which vehicle, which license, what capacity. The training and exemption measures of the SRC documents must be made by cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications and the Federation of Turkish Drivers and Automobiles. Current studies have a negative effect on the driver's trade. The work prevents the taxi driver and the van shop from taking back the passenger, which has taken out of the municipal borders and the mujavir area in the same way. The van and taxi driver's tradesmen expect work to be done on the solution to this problem. The work must also be carried out in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The driver's shop is having a lot of trouble with rising fuel prices. Tax-cut fuel is a major advantage in air travel and shipping. The driver's shop, which transports land roads, wants to use non-tax-free fuel, just as it does in air and sea transport. Also, the rapid rise in engine prices increases transportation costs. If cheap shipping and truckers are supposed to make money, we have to supply cheap gas to the transportation industry. It's always a problem for the company's car to be tied up on the road, which is delayed by the Finance Ministry's tax on motor vehicles. We have to take care of the loss of the shop owner who's been tied up for days and weeks and weeks. It is imperative that we support our truckers tradesmen, our movers, by law, and eliminate their problems together, because they deliver them to their address the next day, as they have a burden. I respectfully salute your grand delegation, wishing for a quick solution to the problems of the driver's shop.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0027par0367	Thank you. The last speaker against the Republican People's Party group proposal is Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0028par0370	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the CHP group proposal. I hereby salute the General Assembly. We'd like to continue the end of Terror 629 from Article 3 of the Law Bill. Hopefully today we'll legalize it, and hopefully, we'll try to be a salve to the bleeding wound of society. Mr. President, there are some parts of our Republican People's Party group's proposal that I have not participated in, as well as participating in the vast majority of the speeches of Mr. Haydar Akar. In regards to the chapters I disagreed with, Mr. Ahmet Arslan, our Kars MP, has technically made statements about this, and I'm participating in those statements. New discoveries and new insights have brought new models to solve the transportation problems of our cities. However, given the current public transportation balances, population growth, technology, quality and so forth, unfortunately, the ongoing process is being carried out against the van business. As a result of this development and change, the van industry loses its competitiveness. To translate this in favor of the tradesman, arrangements such as institutional organisation at the trade level, efficiency, quality, public support for private public transportation, VAT, and the VAT discount may come to mind. I think it'll be easier to work out the issues between private businesses and municipalities. Integrating public transport types may be necessary to rethink issues such as integration, the protection of acquish rights, a sustainable business and eventually increased capacity. Unfortunately, the description of the van has not changed in response to the increasing population in cities, the increasing quality, quality, and quantity of public transportation. What's the description of the van? 14+1. That was the definition 25 years ago. The shopkeeper was relieved at the time, but now the new van descriptions of the van drivers... what's this? There are demands such as 22+1 or 18+4. Our Izmir MP, Nesrin Ulema, followed the issue in advance, held meetings with the heads of the van rooms in 81 rooms, and brought these friends to the presence of the Minister of the period, Mr. Bali Yıldırım, and they were addressed in an environment of bureaucrats. Our government and the AK PARTY are closely pursuing the problems of van drivers. Therefore, I'd like to thank our Nesrin Ulema Congressman. Again, our current Minister, Lütfi Elvan, follows the problems of the van shop. I'm just saying, hopefully, we'll get to the bottom of this as soon as possible. Since the General Assembly is very busy, I declare myself against the group's proposal, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0029par0379	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0030par0380	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit01spe0029par0381	I'm going to submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm gonna take a ten-minute break, and I'm gonna invite the group vice presidents to talk in the back. Closing Time: 15.09
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0029par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranked "The End of Terror" and the Enhancing of Social Integration" Bill of Law and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The last joint was adopted by Article 2 of the bill. I have to make a statement, lawmakers: The last merger was adopted by Article 2 of the bill, yes. Before the merger was closed, he used a statement that he used. I had been suggested that I was speaking for a minister, and I had started a formal discussion on demand. I'd like to explain the statement he used. Mr. Ali Longırmak had claimed that Mr. Minister called him Ali Kızılırmak. So I said, "Maybe the tongue slipped." And then I said, "I'm protecting the Minister." And I was asked to argue against me, against my attitude. There was a motion in accordance with Article 70 of the Civil Charter (Second Law) that the discussion of the procedure should be held in closed session. Now, to remind you, I'm going to reread the motion for closed session, and I'm going to proceed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 70 of the Civil Code, I propose a closed session of the discussion of the procedure. The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0031par0028	Mr. President, you've already read this motion and stayed in the vote, you're supposed to renew the vote.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0029par0029	I'll renew it, I'll do it all, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0031par0030	Sir, you were supposed to renew the vote.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0029par0031	Mr. Vural, I'll do it all. I made a statement. When this happened, most of the friends who were members of parliament weren't here. I've made the necessary statement, and I'll continue the procedure. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and sworn officers remain in the hall: Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now let's clear the hall.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0032par0034	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary will make a statement on this matter. We're withdrawing the closed session motion. Mr. Vural, at this stage? Yes, we're pulling back, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0033par0037	What clause of the Civil Law do you draw?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit02spe0034par0038	Congressmans, the motion for closed session has been withdrawn. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0034par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. The commission is here. The government is here. Just now, the closed session motion has been withdrawn. We're going to continue the negotiations and I'm going to start the discussion of the procedure. Once again, let me explain the reason for the Usul debate: During last night's talks, the Minister addressed Mr. Ali Tallırmak to Mr. Ali Ashramak. Mr. Tallırmak asked for a word, we promised him, and he said a word I didn't want to say when I told him about his problem, when I told him about his objection. And I said, "Don't insult me, it's a slip." It was a natural thing to say, but Mr. Vural, in my words, wanted to open a formal debate on the grounds that I was protecting the Minister, and I agreed. But before we started the procedural debate, Mr. Secretary asked for a word. Mr. Secretary, you asked for a promise, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0035par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, to end this discussion, I mean, it wasn't a big deal, but our friends raised it. I don't have a problem with the names of any of my friends, it's totally surreal. When I'm hearing names here, I don't see people, I just write names; there's a mistake there, and sometimes there's noise, there's surrealism, there's no other purpose, there's no intention. Let me make that clear. Let there be no misunderstanding, everyone's name is precious, their last name is precious, but we can all, at times, mispronounce in these crowds, we can stumble. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0036par0014	The request for words about the procedure...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0037par0015	Mr. President, the purpose has been purposed, so...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0036par0016	Mr. Vural, you're withdrawing your request for procedure on this matter, aren't you?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0037par0017	Yes, sir, it was purposeful.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0036par0018	Okay. I would like to remind you, once again, that everything that's been said here is on the record. Now, we'll resume the negotiations where we left off. MADDE 3- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to make the necessary decisions regarding the solution process. (2) Co-ordinating and Secretariat services under the Cozum Process are carried out by Public Duzeni and Security Association. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0038par0030	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group regarding the end of terrorism 629 rows and the strengthening of social integration. I salute your high council. Turkey's main problem is the end of terrorism and the desire to resolve the problems of our Kurdish brothers in peaceful ways is one of our people's most important demands. We, too, feel that social peace can be achieved by an individual-oriented, egalitarian, and liberal approach, and as the main opposition party, we continue our efforts and efforts. However, the road that the ruling party and the government have followed so far on the solution of the Kurdish issue has been a very incoherent, conflicted, non-transparent, usually politically and for personal gain. When we ask the government, the answer is, "Sir, the peace process is going very well." It's going well, but we don't know that. The AKP has thus far ruled out the process without responsibility by exclusion of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In fact, the lack of a democratic environment to discuss this problem and other issues that exist in our country is the biggest obstacle to solving these problems. We all know how difficult it is to get a healthy solution to this problem without a democratic debate in Turkey. In that case, the government must first create a democratic environment throughout Turkey, with all institutions and regulations of democracy. However, it is with regret that the government is following a policy that is unintelligible. Power always chooses to use problems rather than solve problems. As the Republican People's Party, we support all steps that will lead to a sincere and healthy solution to this matter. However, we would also like to point out that we will not honor non-sincere deceptions based on profitful, political accounts. Because we are in favour of a permanent social peace, but so far, the government has reduced terrorism and Kurdish issue to political accounts, not social accounts, not the AKP issue, not the whole community, and has approached the government and the Prime Minister as a matter of political gain, which means Mr. Erdogan wanted to give Mr. Erdoğan a profile of the leader who solved the problem. The fact that this bill was discussed in the Interior Commission the day after Mr. Prime Minister's candidacy was announced confirms our concerns and opinions. The most important step so far in the administrational process is the fact that the terrorist organization has been dealt with legally; that's the bottom line. During the work of the Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay Commission, we have always been careful to conduct the solution process in transparency. In this law and other studies, we will protect it, inform the public. The solution process is carried out with great social support. After that, we take this social support behind our backs, and we take it upon ourselves to conduct transparent work. He said, "The truth is not so at all." Our people have learned all the developments from the missing information leaked to the press, from the spokesman of the terrorist organization and from the BDP MPs, and the government has not made a proper statement. This problem was first referred to by the AKP government as the Kurdish opening, then as the National Union and Brotherhood Project, and eventually decided on the process of solution. These processes have always been zigzags. Prior to the 2011 elections, there were declarations for former left-wingers and right-wingers, condemned inhumanities in prisons, or even more advanced, that if I were Prime Minister in 2002, I would hang Abdullah Ocalan. What are these made for, dear friends? To hold nationalist votes in the elections. Now the presidential election is near. The Prime Minister's candidacy is at stake. What happened all of a sudden? "We're doing legal work to support the peace process." We've been told, and today's bill has arrived. I just want to say that this is a sign of inconsistency, a manipulative mentality. This bill also carries strange, incomprehensible provisions. Now, I'm asking, in what country of the world, is the law, which reminds the government of its duty, brought back by the government? Not the bill to draw the road map, but the law itself. Let's meet here and do what we're supposed to do. Whatever it is, let's discuss it here. Another clause in the bill says, "The government makes the necessary decisions, does all kinds of work and informs the public." So, have you done any work so far? If you did, why didn't you give any serious information to the public? How can we be sure that you will give us this information as the Council of Ministers from now on? There are examples of the world's solution to the problem of terrorism. In all the troubled areas of the world, we know that the solution to this kind of terror problem is conducted in a transparent and participating way, not behind closed doors. If the Oslo talks hadn't come up, if it hadn't been for the MIT Undersecretary's investigation into that matter, we wouldn't have been aware of any of these developments. Even now, we don't know for sure what's behind closed doors, what's the answer, what commitments and compromises have been set to solve this problem. Dear friends, who doesn't want terror to end, of course we all do. From the day we started college, we couldn't live in a happy, peaceful environment, read, or function until today. The years before September 12th have always been a fight, and we've had problems. We've all been through the period of September 12th and the troubles after that again. And after 1984, the acts of terror started by the terrorist organization, and we're still in a lot of pain, and we're still in it. We don't deserve this as a country. Turkey needs peace now. Turkey needs unity, unity, but it is not right to resolve it by shutting down the Assembly or by lawmaking machines, with laws of three or five at any time, or by laws filled with bags. The solution must be a process that we can embrace to everyone, that everyone is in it, that everyone can express their opinion in a transparent way. Again, those who work on the peace process cannot be judged." you are ruling. Kenan put such a clause in the universe, and he put it in the Constitution. Today he said, "Look, we've judged, we've punished the 95-year-old man." You rejoice and boast. That means people can be judged even if they're 95 years old. I mean, you can't figure out what kind of assurance this material is going to give you. I think such regulations are the only arrangements that non-democratic regimes can make. It's not a very accurate arrangement. Dear friends, if there is no bad intentions in this government's work, in the process of peace, together, together, free living, everyone would agree, but we would like to repeat over and over again that this matter will be resolved, not only with orders and instructions from the Council of Ministers or decisions that the Council of Ministers will make, but with parliament, with the bill in parliament, with the Parliament. For the future of our country, we can, of course, support the government's right and positive work and regulations as opposition, but we can never allow these arrangements to pave the way for further developments that would undermine the integrity and unity of the country. Dear friends, the process of resolution is a long and difficult process by nature. As a result of the psychological war led by the AKP's rule, the Turkish community's search for the truth has been destroyed by its reflex and antibody to resist lies and deception. Now, every word and empty promise of power is seen as real by the public with the support of the supporting media. For these reasons, I wish this law to be prepared with good intentions, without a different thought, without a different purpose. I wish for our country to be free of this troubled problem that has been going on for years, unitedly, to be the world's most prosperous, improved, and respectful of human rights. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0039par0046	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. Mr. Mehmet Erdogan will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0040par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the Law Bill 629. I hereby salute your high council. Congressmans, as you know, a bill of law has been drafted by the government under the name of social peace. We also met with the Interior Commission at a busy work pace of this bill, where we expressed our warnings, the shortcomings we saw. However, it seems that the threats of the bloody terrorists in Kandil....are more effective than our warnings. It seems that the short-term political interests of AKP power are more important than our country and our nation's indivisible integrity because it only eliminates the concerns of the baby killer, the separatist, the human trafficker, the drug trafficker, the PKK. This law only aims to serve Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's tireless presidential ambition. Now, friends, the bill is talking about the end of terror. How can a law, contrary to the Constitution, serve peace, freeing a certain group of criminals? In what country of the world is a crime-related situation tried to legitimize by law? This clause of the bill gives the Council of Ministers the authority to make open-ended decisions. From now on, the so-called solution process, the so-called solution, will be governed by the pleasure of the Council of Ministers, hidden from the nation and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The 91st Article of our Constitution shall be granted the mandate to issue a decree under the rule of law for a period of time and limited time. However, with this law, the government will decide as it pleases, whether it shares these decisions with the public or not, according to its pleasure. With this bill, our Constitution has been riddled with holes, and the AKP has once again demonstrated its lack of law. Now, I'd like to ask you, in what country of the world is there a law of forgiveness against the future? Where in the world, in the hands of which sane power held a gun, in the mountains and in the city, did he have an official conversation under the same conditions as the marauder who challenged him? What conscienceful power should not weep for the mothers. With their nicknames, can the mother's lamb make the martyrs suffer? What mindset speaks of justice, law, equality, which leads his country to legal uncertainty, unsolved murders, new lawlessness? Dear lawmakers, this bill contains serious contradictions to the speech and essence of our Constitution. But the AKP has never been able to make peace with the judiciary. The government has made it a habit not to recognize the rule of law; it has been unable to accept the control of the judiciary, the administration, on business and actions. However, when it was implemented, the law also included the provisions that would constitute crime and condemn its enforcers, which, in this regard, prevented the adoption of the bill as a secondary commissions in the Constitution and the Justice Commissions. Such a freaky law, which includes serious violations to the Constitution, our laws, and the basic principles of law, is a misfortune and a theft to be seen in our Veteran Assembly. Dear lawmakers, no matter what developed country you go to in the world, state institutions work in accordance with the constitution, public institutions operate in accordance with the law. The constitution is not only for citizens on the street, but a text of reconciliation, which is a guarantee of the existence of the state, which connects everyone, including the top president of the state. Now, if you don't know this Constitution, if you don't see the law, if you try to legitimize a criminal matter as if nothing had happened, do you think there'll be a law left for you tomorrow? You don't think you'll be held accountable tomorrow? You think you won't be held accountable in court after this world? You don't think you're going to get caught in the crosshairs by trying to separate people from their capillaries? Of course, there is another dimension to this bill. This bill opens its right to rule under the Lausanne Accords after the Turkish nation's Liberation War, and is incompatible with the rhetoric and spirit of the sovereignty we obtained in the Lausanne Agreement. Adeta, with this bill, our gains in the Lausanne Peace Accord are re-arranged with the terrorist organization. Such a start will tomorrow lead us to the new separatists, new terrorist groups, new evil centers, new demands. We, the National Movement Party, believe that we must warn everyone once again on this occasion, and we are doing our duty. Give up this destruction project, which has led our country and our nation into a dark process, including this bill, and this fire will burn you one day. Today, your involvement in the separatist terrorist organization PKK (PKK) invites other terrorist organisations that are now present or do not exist to face similar demands against our state and nation, which officially means inviting death. This bill, which seeks to exonerate its enforcers, actually condemns its enforcers. We would like to remind you that you will be a party to this crime, and that every criminal will be tried in due time. This bill, which is clear to discuss our sovereignty, will open the door to the shaking of the foundations of the national state in which you live. Dear friends, let's go back this way; there were the silent revolutions at first, where, at first, the so-called National Union and Brotherhood Project took a name, so-called silent but destructive revolutions, adorned by it, but it didn't work out for the Turkish nation. This time it was called the solution process. Each time, the prime minister and AKP's leading figures believed the PKK's terrorist group's words and competed to make a statement. I thought everything was gonna be great. I thought the terrorist organization was going to drop guns on the militants. I thought the terrorist organization was going abroad. Or has the terrorist organization already divided a part of the country and become perceived as abroad? Yes, friends, unfortunately, Turkey was first tried to divide the minds, and now took a dangerous journey towards an actual division. At this point, terrorists, if you do not discuss this bill in July, the war will begin." "He threatens the government, does road checks in the area, collects tributes, gathers more militants than ever before, sets up so-called courts, makes trials, and sentences. In part of our country, the government, which led to these events, continues to take steps to encourage traitors even further. Dear lawmakers, we all know what is really being done with this bill. Along with this bill, which was the product of the demolition project, illegal talks, meetings and agreements with the baby killer terrorist in the Imran and its extensions in the Kandil, and such illegal activities will now be put on a legal basis. However, both the government and its representatives must know very well that the interim Article 15 of the Constitution cannot protect you as it did not protect the coupgers. You will answer for what you have done in this world and in the next. Remember, this bill will only protect you as long as the AKP is in power. When that day comes, I'm warning you not to take any steps you'll regret. Dear lawmakers, it makes sense that a bill like this would come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey just before the presidential election on 10 August 2014. It appears that Prime Minister and AKP officials did not launch the presidential election campaign from Samsun. Given the timing and content of the bill, it has become clear that the Prime Minister and his apostle began the presidential election campaign, not from Samsun, but from the Imran-Kandil line. Mr. President, I would like to put an end to one matter by repeating it: "The use of authority cannot be left to anyone, society or class at all. No one or body can use the authority of a state that does not remove its source from the Constitution." If this bill is adopted, the calls for ethnic autonomy and autonomy imposed by separatist and destructive elements will be even more encouraging, and our country will face new division scenarios. Let's not ignore our 1,000-year-old brotherhood so the Prime Minister can be elected. Do not desecrate this brotherhood with the blood of a bloody terrorist organization like the PKK. I hereby declare that this bill contains false meanings and purposes from the beginning to the end, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0041par0066	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Ayla Akat will speak for him. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0042par0070	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party concerning the 3rd Amendment of the relevant law. I salute you all. Under Article 3 of the relevant law, the Council of Ministers is authorized to make the necessary decisions regarding the solution process, and is again referred to as the Co-ordinating and Security Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. Mr. Secretary, wasn't the current Undersecretary of Public Security, as part of its mandate, set up to develop policies, strategies on the fight against terrorism, and co-ordinate between relevant institutions and institutions? There is an Undersecretary set up for this purpose, and in a law we call the framework law, there are six articles that, if we remove the enforcement and execution, are already pointing to an Undersecretary established by the government for this purpose, and again as a joint institution, the Anti-Terror Coordination Council, it gives the Undersecretary the mandate and the authority to co-ordination. Of course, this process -- if we're going to call it a solution process -- will be run by the government, and while the government is conducting this process, of course, it will bring the internal and external dynamics involved into the process. Who are they? Of course it's political parties, of course it's organized groups, NGOs. So, how can we say that there's a law that's away from this, that's a repetitive of what exists, that the solution is the content of the framework law? We haven't yet been able to make sense of what is being done with this material, because that's exactly what it's been done in the past in the same context, and that's what it's been arranged for, and it's been tasked with the collection of the intelligence of all relevant structures in the Undersecretary for a single-handed and effective fight. But today, at this point, we see that once again, a law clause is trying to strengthen this position. So, we call it a framework law of solutions, but when we evaluate it as the title of matter and look at the practice of the Undersecretary and all the other agencies involved before, can we name it when we look at the work, the operational activities? Yes, the title is "Fighting Terror," the title is "Son of Terror." There are relevant institutions that have been established for this purpose, and that's why we've already experienced all the suffering that we've experienced, even the beginning of denial and destruction, throughout the history of the Republic. Especially for the last 30 years, that's why over 3,000 villages have been evacuated, and that's exactly why 3.5 million people have been left without a home and have been left homeless, and have been forced to emigrate, and that's why people have had to lose their lives at the torture tables. That's what this title reminds us of, and the task assigned to the relevant institution reminds us of. That's not a good start, Mr. Secretary. What do we offer instead of the law? Yes, we propose the Ministry of Social Peace and Negotiation, which will be formed to carry out the co-ordination and implementation of the work and operations on the facility of the peace process and the principles for implementing it. Negotiations must be held, and ultimately they must be able to have a social peace. Therefore, we emphasize that a relevant ministry must be established. Why? Because when the problem is obvious, when the reasons for the problem are obvious, we judge that it doesn't make any sense to just file the visible size that exists, not to go over those reasons. However, the fight against terrorism and the idea is a scan of legislation with the size of all the substances that restrict freedom of expression, and as a result of this scan, yes, it is important to underline the materials and the materials that are to be removed, to underline the new materials to be built. Because, as of today, the existence of the existing Anti-Terror Law eliminates the freedom of organization, the existence of legislation that restricts freedom of thought, freedom of expression -- especially the Turkish Penal Code; religion eliminates freedom of conscience; religion eliminates freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration; it eliminates fair trial and right of political participation. So, what's to be done? Yes, information, free thinking, and creativity are being tried to be contained, and as long as it's being controlled, it's continuing to be devastating. As a result, we, especially from the government's environments, were not students; they were terrorists; they were not workers; they were terrorists; they were not journalists; they were terrorists; they were academics; they were terrorists; they were terrorists; and we hear the phrase "terrorists." Because the current definition of terrorism is so broad that you can be drawn to a point where you don't have to take the Anti-Terror Law and change the relevant material, and you can go and hang out here without re-arranging it. And there are sentences, phrases, concepts that have been used that so far have caused deep wounds in every part of society. Dear lawmakers, of course, Turkey is not the first country in the world to experience this process, but Turkey is not the only country to have conflict within its borders. When we look up, we consider that similar processes occur in many places, that even if there are different outcomes, some methods -- the solutions to the negotiations, the role of the leader -- can be shared, of course -- but as long as there are no legal laws, we know that in the world, most of the contracts that the two sides sit down and discuss, most of the contracts that they consider, have been removed from the agenda within five years. What's the reason? The sides are undecided. What's the reason? The sides don't trust each other. What's the reason? The parties are still unconvinced and lack public support. Now, if we consider it here, we think that the parties have now experienced a process of persuasion. If Turkey is considering the democratic peaceful solution of the Kurdish issue as its top priority as of today, the indecision in this matter must be eliminated, the relevant steps to ensure that the parties can trust each other must be taken, surely, because there is strong public support. Since this process started -- I don't just mean 2013, I'm considering the previous -- in every election, the public has publicly declared its support for the parties involved in the polls. We consider what remains a serious political commitment. And you have to remember that there's never been a zigzag at the root of the word "monitore," and remember that there's a memorial and a memory. Here, perhaps, we can express what we remember, what we remember. Because maybe a lot of people in this room don't even know what's going on. Yes, there must be a process where we give witnesses of the process, actors of the process, victims of the process a voice and representation, dear friends. One of the most important points we find is that in similar processes around the world, women have stayed out of the negotiation process because they are not at the authority representation points or because they are not at any higher authority in the organisational mechanisms. For that, there are certain measures that must be taken. If we're talking about a framework law and we're saying a negotiation process is going to start, Mr. Secretary, we know the shortage of female bureaucrats involved in your office. In this framework, perhaps outside the House, these formations must be put together to act as well as the mechanisms that they can speak for themselves, the mechanisms that women can say for themselves, the solution and ultimately the mechanisms that they can be part of the peace process. As a result, it is necessary to say that after negotiations were never held and then the solution was reached, no one evaluated the provisions reached after the settlement was reached, what is the issue of the transfer of authority? Everyone remembered who the agreement was between. Everyone saw Tony Blair's position, and again Gerry Adams' position, and everyone understood Mandela and De Klerk, and everyone was able to point to their role. In this process, we underline the fact that there are certain, certainly similar experiences, that every party in the process must develop the approach of knowledge and consciousness with which they have a history, and the solutions that can point to the essence of the problem, by sharing solutions with society, and by bringing them into society. I salute you all with such feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0043par0086	Thank you, Mr. Akat Ata. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu will speak for Niğde MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0044par0090	Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on Article 3 of the Third Amendment to the Ending of Terror and Enhancing Social Integration, a historic study that we continue to discuss in the General Assembly. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that as the EC PARTY, we have always believed that our stay, our peace, our happiness, and our safety are in the unity and unity of Turkey. In our country, we have tried to break prejudices between differences and create social ground that will cover the distances between different sections. On the same land, under the same flag, we never compromised the will to build the future together by sharing a common destiny. No matter where it came from, no matter what it was for, we never gave terrorism a bonus. By strengthening our unity and solidarity in the face of terrorism, we have also maintained democratic openings with the same clarity and speed. The National Union and Brotherhood Project, which our government launched in July 2009 to end terrorism and strengthen social peace and brotherhood, has been a crucial threshold in our country's history of democracy. At that time, a courageous and powerful will was established to put an end to endless debates, deaths, suffering. We sincerely said that terror can no longer be the unchanging fate of this country; we are willing to accept all its cost, as long as there is no more blood flowing, let there be no more young people dying. Our nation's unity and unity have been tested. Constant abuse mechanisms have been activated. The process has been provoked many times. Thankfully, each time the sense of brotherhood of our beloved nation prevailed. Mr. President, valued members, the solution process has brought many benefits. One of the positive effects of the process is that the flow of blood has stopped for nearly 19 months, so our citizen has lived in a safer and more peaceful country. Through the solution process, our country's eastern and southeast especially has begun to see normalisation that has been missed for decades, and the people of the region's will for the end of violence has been strengthened, and economic improvements have been felt. Because terrorism is the greatest enemy of economic recovery and progress. Furthermore, it is important to stress that even during the last year when our power and Turkish politics have faced the most internal and external crises, the solution process has continued without interruption. This has enabled society to boost its support by seeing the impact of the process on political stability. Dear friends, the bill we've been discussing is a new phase of the democratic vision our government has gradually developed, which has gained momentum along with the National Union and Brotherhood Project, which has been launched since 2002 and especially in 2009. In 12 years, the infrastructure was built. It has been tested and approved that our nation has the will and the power to solve this problem. At the coming point today, we're at a stage where the process is maturing with increasing public support. It must be understood that the aim of the arrangement we're meeting is to end terrorism through democracy and strengthen social integration. It is intended to be a framework bill that refers directly to the solution process, to regulate the procedures and principles related to the solution process, and to provide legal infrastructure. Because ever since the beginning, the legal basis of the solution process has always been criticised and asked for a legal guarantee. So, with this law to be passed, first of all, this demand is being met and the process is being legally guaranteed. Second, with this bill, our government is once again taking responsibility and responsibility, but this time Turkey's Grand National Assembly is stepping forward as the address of the solution. In addition to the government, parliament's will is becoming the basis of the process, so now the parliament, which has been established by the national will, is taking over the process as state policy, and authorising the government to carry out the process of resolution. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to the bill, the government's work as part of the resolution process is generally seen to be as follows: It will determine steps to end terrorism and strengthen social integration in the areas of political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological, culture, human rights, security and disarmament and related issues. If necessary, people from abroad and abroad will decide to contact, dialogue, talks and so on; the person who will perform these works will appoint institutions and organisations. He will take the necessary measures to ensure the return of gun-laden members and their participation in social life and harmony. It will ensure that the public is informed on the right and on the right and time of the measures taken under the regulation. It will monitor the implementation results on the measures taken, and will co-ordinate between the relevant institutions and organisations. He'll do the necessary legislation. The third article, which we are currently negotiating on, regulates the issues of authority and secretariat regarding the solution process. According to this, the Council of Ministers is authorized to make the necessary decisions regarding the solution process. Co-ordinating and secretariat services on the work done under the solution process will be conducted by the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, which is incumbent on the Prime Minister. In addition, data must be carried out immediately by relevant public institutions and organisations as part of the arrangement. It is also organised that those who carry out the tasks provided under this law will not be given legal, administrative, and criminal responsibility. Dear friends, this bill, above all, is seen as a clear indication of how determined the AK PARTY government is at the point of resolution. It is also a strong declaration of will that Turkey can resolve its matter with its own power. Our people are strong and strong enough to solve their own affairs. As political will, our government and our Parliament, which has been established by the national will, will now lead to this power and strength. Finally, I would like to say that today, we owe our unity and unity to the historical wisdom of our nation, the existence of our martyrs and veterans. If there was no ethnic conflict in this country despite the efforts of the terrorist organization, if today, as a unitary state, we are at a respectable point in the world, we owe thanks to our martyrs and veterans. Their trust, their legacy, the unity and unity of our country, our nation and our state. What we're doing is that this land, which our martyrs willingly sacrificed their lives for, in unity and unity, the democratic rights and freedoms can be fully enjoyed by all our citizens, in an atmosphere of peace, stability, and security. The spirit of our martyrs, more martyrs in the country, more deaths in the country, more fires in the furnace, on the contrary, the country's peace and unity, stability and security, will be justified in the stopping of death, suffering, tears. In the process of resolving, I'd like to thank our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bashir Atalay, our Home Secretary Mr. Efkan Ala, and those who have gone through the effort, especially our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I wish his bill to be good for our country, for our nation and for our state. Its results, hopefully, will contribute to the unity and unity of our country, to your brotherhood and to your peace. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0045par0110	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. Now, on behalf of the individuals, let's go to the speech section. First-person speaker, Mr. Flood Köse, Corrum MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0046par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, we would like to express our satisfaction as the Republican People's Party Group for the agenda of such a law on this week's agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For the first time, such a bill -- even in the form of the law -- seems to have allowed the Turkish Grand National Assembly to place negotiations behind closed doors on a legal basis so far. But again, as usual, we believe that one of the more insincere acts of the Justice and Development Party's power over the 12 years has been discussed with this law. The provisions have been made that, as a lawyer, I find that very difficult to understand. For example, it has been said that no legal, administrative, criminal investigation can be launched in the affairs of this law. The fact is that -- all legal people know -- what legal, criminal or severance responsibility is there, there is no way to understand it. What's underneath this, of course, is that we're all going to see it through the process. Of course, I think it makes sense to you that such a law should be brought to the Commission on a date just prior to the presidential election and that Recep Tayyip Erdogan would be brought to the Commission on the day that the Prime Minister announced his presidential candidacy. There's an election account, and before all the elections, if you remember, somehow an invisible hand would end terrorism, terror would stop, weapons would shut down, and it would start again right after the elections. There's no way of knowing what negotiations are being made. In 2002, you took over this country with zero terrorism, 12 years of zero terrorism, and we lost thousands of innocent people in those 12 years, and today you were able to bring in a legal arrangement for an opening process. Now, won't these thousands of innocent people's families, mothers, fathers, wives, children ask you where you've been for 12 years, brother? Where have you been for 12 years? But it's matured. They call it. And when the coup took place on September 12th, they turned on terror, they didn't prevent terrorism, they let it set up for the coup, but they let it go until September 12th because the coup was prepared; did you also allow this solution to wait until now? That's what our people are wondering. Our people are curious about other things. Our people are saying that at the end of this expansion process, it's always the closed box, it's not clear what it is -- will Abdullah Ocalan also be released? If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the most sacred place in which national will is represented, then these must be spoken, transparency. The people who live in the Republic of Turkey, the Turks, the Kurds, the Lazkı, the Çerkek, the Alevi, the Sunni, the people who want to have their future mortgaged. That's what we want. My dear friends, we have all seen firsthand how insincere AKP has been in its twelve years of power. You said an opening of a novel, you said an opening of a novel, you made the Roma from their homes, you made them from their homes, you said an opening of a house, you booed the Flames at all rallies, you booed the President in all your meetings; now you say a Kurdish opening, and I hope you don't destroy the Kurds from their homes. What we, the Republican People's Party, demand is that we bring them to a point where they will live in accordance with the demands of our Kurdish citizens living in the region, regardless of the decomposition of our university structure. We want lasting peace, we want permanent democracy; we think that without democracy, without freedom of the press, without human rights, without equality of women and men, there will be no lasting peace, and democracy in Turkey will not go a length of barley. This is the first arrangement. I already wish that the negotiations taken behind closed doors would be terminated immediately and that no engagements would be challenged to mortgage our future. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0047par0129	Thank you. On behalf of him, the second speaker is Mr. Osman Ören, the Siirt MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0048par0132	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 3rd Amendment of Bill 629. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, as it is known, we are experiencing one of the turning points in Turkey's history in terms of the Kurdish problem. The six-point framework framework bill was submitted to parliament in order to be able to conduct this very important process of new Turkey, which is known as the process of public dissolution, or the process of peace. This framework bill aims to secure the peace process legally. This development is a historic development. Because in the history of the republic, no political power has taken such a decisive stance on the country's serious, vital issue, and has taken such a risk in the political field. This step is important, historically, because the government's attitude is favoured by peace, human rights, equal implementation of justice to all citizens of the Republic of Turkey. During the EC PARTY administrations, serious steps have been taken to democratise Turkey in many social and political areas. They were all very important steps, no doubt. Turkey was an age-shattering change that opened the way for Turkey. However, the decisive steps made by EC PARTY governments towards solving the Kurdish problem are crucial to the change of face in Turkey's state bureaucracy and the breaking of the rigid attitude. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, the fact that there is a government today with its own agenda, its programme, its project, and its decisive efforts to implement it despite provocations, preventions, is remarkable to show the level Turkey has come to. The steps taken by the EC PARTI government in the peace process are a decisive stance towards Turkey's resolution of its most important, vital problem, but it is also the greatest proof that the state's approach to its citizens has changed, in other words, its paradigm. Basically, after this paradigm change, the Kurdish issue has been solved as a matter of essence, and all that remains is details. Because the essence of the matter is denial and assimilation, and this denial and assimilation is definitely history. By the way, don't let anyone get the wrong kind of heat. If the AK PARTY finished denial and assimilation, it ended not just by force, but by following its own philosophy, its own party program. Therefore, this truth must be delivered that the peace process is the best thing that has happened in this land in the last few centuries. Taking on all political risks, the government has placed the concern of keeping a person alive, putting aside all political economic concerns, as the ultimate value. It's normal to have different opinions about the process, different suggestions. However, the chance to fight a painful war for 30 years must also be given to peace. Our government, which has received a great support from many different parts of society, has taken a stand for peace. We're not going to last this long, I hope. Seven or eight years of peace talks elsewhere, hopefully, will be over soon. Nevertheless, we must be aware that the peace process will always be open to the provocation of these parts. It is our duty to keep peace pure for the brotherhood and to keep our faith that the process will be completed successfully. Let's not forget, for almost 19 months, there has been no bloodshed in this beautiful country, no tears in the mothers, no tears in the father's lungs. Everyone has a responsibility to be aware of that and to maintain that beauty throughout the country. Those who oppose the process of resolution, which has seen a great deal of pride throughout the country, just to oppose power, are, I assure you, opposed to this nation itself, its hopes, its future. And our nation sees and appreciates all things. I'd like to celebrate the peace and brotherhood that we've been missing in three languages we've spoken in my hometown of Siirt, which has suffered for thirty years. Allah.... [[*]] Good luck, good luck. Thank God for showing my Lord these days. I salute you from the bottom of my heart.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0049par0144	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Now we'll do the QA in ten minutes. I'll give my word to lawmakers who enter the system for five minutes, and in the remaining five minutes, Mr. Secretary will try to answer the questions asked. Mr. Canalioğlu, please.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0050par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Orhan Fevzi Customscuoğlu, president of the Tripoli Yıldızlı Trust Hospital, has issued a check for 4,700,000 euros -- a total of $2,800,000 -- for 15 shares. The third check was not paid, and the issue fell to local and national media when the foreclosure was carried out. In his written statement, Orhan Fevzi Fevzi said he had acquired shares. In this case, these shares were not included in the property notification declaration. In return, do you find it ethical for the mayor to engage in business? Two: Has there been an inspector's appointment to begin the investigation, investigation and investigation of these issues that have been reflected in local and national media? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0051par0151	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0052par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. In Hakkari and some other counties, it is in the media that there are illegal incidents every day. Is there a closed road in those areas as of today? Is it true that acts are carried out daily in Hakkari, and that the state cannot afford it? My second question: will the Anti-Terror Law be lifted in the coming days? And my third question is: do you consider a amnesty in the coming time period, whether it's partial or direct? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0053par0157	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0054par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Republican People's Party Party Assembly's ruling dated May 2013 stated that it has given up all acts of terrorism and violence against the Republic of Turkey and that it cannot be involved in any solution unless it declares that it will surrender its weapons to the authorities, and that the search for solutions will not be allowed to be ruled by Ocalan and Kandil, and that the search for this solution will be in accordance with the rule of law state principle and rules. However, I would like to state that I would say no to this bill, especially since this bill that we discussed has handed over the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the Council of Ministers, and also because it has brought in some covert amnesty regulations. And I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a direct question...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0055par0162	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0056par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. He is the province of Şanlıurfa, where the AKP has won the most votes in Turkey. However, in the province of Şanlıurfa, electricity is cut for six hours every day, regularly, without fail. In this regard, the people are victims of six hours of power outage every day in Şanlıurfa. The Şanlıurfans gave you this vote, did you come to power to victimize the Urbans? The Şanliurfas want this sacrifice to be resolved. Losing power for six hours a day is a violation of the right to live. The blackout is also a violation of human rights. While we're talking about the package of democratization, the people's human rights are being violated -- there, six hours a day, due to the blackout of electricity. So, when are you going to settle this rights violation of the Glorious? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0057par0167	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0058par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Mr. Energy Minister made a statement. This statement included the issues we've brought up so many times, but the government has denied it. What are the missing fugitives in eastern and southeast provinces, especially in Şırnak? How do you collect this lost energy from whom? How many subscribers are out of power because he's not paying for electricity right now? What is the distribution of this to the provinces in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0059par0171	Mr. Yeniçeri, you have 40 seconds.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0060par0172	That's what happens to me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0059par0173	You're getting into the system late. What can I do? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0060par0175	I come in at a very high quality time, but this is what happens. Now, two days ago, there is information that 21 university students from various universities in Turkey went to the mountain and that these students found it a moral, conscientious and revolutionary mission to join the guerrilla ranks in the context of democratic demands of the Turkish peoples. Is this information true? Your policies, if these are true, encourage you to go back to the mountain, not to go down the mountain? ▪ How many rangers were killed during the process of solutions? Will you recognize an independent Kurdish state in Iraq?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0059par0177	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. You had 40 seconds, but you asked your question again, understood. Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0061par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. We need to know the exact details of the question Mr. Canalioğlu asked about the mayor of Tripoli. We need to ask our Home Office if there's an investigation. I mean, I don't know what's going on here. I can't explain it to him. The answer to the question of Mr. Right (right) is there a closed road now?: I have expressed it yesterday, our esteemed MPs, all roads of Turkey are open -- and all villages of the region -- can be reached, let alone cities, anywhere. Turkey is now experiencing one of its most peaceful periods. I'd like to make it very clear from him. The issue of the Anti-Terror Code is not on our agenda right now. But, let me put it this way: you know, in 2005, when the Turkish Penal Code was being rebuilt, almost all of the articles in the Anti-Terror Law were put there as parallel materials. In fact, my own determination, I've said this before, is that there are both Anti-Terror Laws and Turkish Penal Codes, so there's not much loss in the removal of the Anti-Terror Law right now. But we're not thinking about it right now, and I'm thinking it's something to think about within the distance of the solution process. There's no such thing as a pardon on our agenda right now, so there's no such thing as euphemism, but what's in this law? Different studies can be done, work on homecomings, new legal arrangements. They'll come to the House, they'll come to the agenda in the next round of work. There's never been a covert pardon in this law right now... And it was said yesterday that there was some kind of law enforcement violation, which didn't bring him in, that he would never give the Council of Ministers the authority to enforce the law or anything like that. If there's a new legal arrangement, it'll come to the House. Let me make this very clear here. That's right, Mr. Yilmaz. I mean, within the law, we consider it very important in all our savings as much as possible. Turkey's democratisation and the state of law, it's all in the law, and that's one of the laws we've brought in. Here's to Mr. Tanal. And Mr. Erdogan's statements on energy. Mr. Tanal was already more of an explanation than a question, Mr. Erdogan, and so on and so forth. We're going to have to take these from the Department of Energy and give them to you. So right now, we all know the blackouts on energy, but we all know why, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, it's not a field that I'm very directly interested in, so I can't explain to you any more. Mr. Yeniçeri's student group and its explanation, of course, I don't know if it's a news story, it's not information that's in front of me right now, so I can't say anything about it. I guess that's all the questions were asked, Mr. President, when I looked at it this way.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0062par0190	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0061par0191	But once again, if there's a half-minute here in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, it's really a win to ask, to talk, to discuss everything, and I'm very happy about it. I'd like to rephrase that, on this occasion. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0063par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0064par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0065par0195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vural, did you ask for your word?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0064par0197	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0065par0198	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0064par0201	Mr. President, I've expressed it here before, but since Mr. Minister was in his line of duty, there was a charity campaign in our Hamiyetperver nation to help the Turks in the attack on ISIS, homeless, homeless, homeless, starving Turkmen. Ülkü January Foundation...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0065par0202	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0064par0203	Yeah, that's what I said. The AFAD and the Redbeard... If the Minister listens... it's about them.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0066par0206	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0064par0207	Despite what they say, aid trucks are being held in Habur, and whatever you do from now on, we can't help you. In addition, some terrorists in Habur are threatening truck drivers who bring these aid there, and they say you're going to be killed. Therefore, I request the government's knowledge of the transportation of these aid trucks to the Turks, the government's action of the AFAD and the Red, while the Minister is here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0066par0209	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0067par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. I told our Minister that six hours a day of electricity is being cut off at Sanlıurfa, where the people are the victims, when will this sacrifice be removed? While waiting for the answer to that question, he humiliated me - I mean, he explained it, couldn't ask questions. He made a statement to discredit me. I'd like a word from you, Mr. President, if possible, from this taunt.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0066par0213	Mr. Tanal, I have not seen an act of bullying or dishonoration here.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0067par0214	But it was a question, not an explanation. The power goes out six hours a day...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0066par0215	Mr. Tanal, I'll have the reports brought in, and I'll process them accordingly. Mr. Secretary, you have stated that you wish to make a statement on the words of Mr. Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0068par0219	Dear friends, as you know, on the events in Iraq, we, as both of them, have helped very seriously as Turkey, a large population that has fled from Mosul, leaving, and then a population that has been separated from Telafer (Turkmen). I personally sent the president of the AFAD. The president of the AFAD himself has gone and a special camp has been set up for the Turkmen who have left Telafer, and our help is going there. I don't know if the trucks you're saying are temporarily having problems there, but -- I mean, AFAD -- we're constantly sending there, not only for Telafer, but for those who have fled from Mosul, as well as for those who have left. But, uh, let me check again right now. So, if there's a problem in that sense, I'll call AFAD, get some information, and I'll give you some more information. And I can't ask Mr. Tanal. I didn't say, "Don't explain more than the question." I said, "There's nothing wrong with it, there's nothing negative about it."
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0069par0221	The question is, Mr. President, when is the victim to be removed from the glory?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0068par0222	I don't know, I don't know about that. Our energy minister isn't here either. I accept questions, but I don't know, I couldn't answer them about energy. If you'll forgive me... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0070par0224	Thank you. There are two motions on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "The Ministry of Public Order and Security" in Article 2 of the 3rd article of the current law bill 629, be changed to the Ministry of Public Peace and Negotiation, which will be established to co-ordinate and execute the work and procedures for the establishment of the peace process and the implementation of the principles for that effect. Altan Tan Pervin Buldan Nazmi Gür Faysal Sarıstar Sırıyya Leader İdris Baluken Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/941 We propose and propose that Article 3 of the original Bill of Law be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Yusef Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Alim Iş Kemalettin Yılmaz Ahmet Duran Bulu Özcan Yeniçeri Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0071par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0070par0247	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0072par0248	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0070par0249	Mr. Reşat will speak correctly on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0073par0252	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the cease and desist of terrorism 629 and to the Enhancing of Social Integration on Article 3 of the Law Bill. I salute the High Council. It's a good name, but I'm afraid we're discussing the law with its content and background, its purpose is full surrender. Honourable MPs, it is clear that this bill has come to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after formal talks with Oslo talks, the solution process, with Kandil and İmralı. In 2002, terror and its demands, which had almost reached its end, began to rise again with the AKP's power, under the name of openings, to our present day. The country is watching this situation, the nation's enemies rubbing their hands. In the process, the distances taken by the baby killer, the separatists, the traitors have been huge, but huge. And now the openings are being brought to our attention by new legislation under the name of the peace process. The regulations for the infrastructure of autonomy were already legalized in parliament. The newly brought bill envisions that the bandits in the mountain and in prison will now be more comfortable in the city, that terrorists will take full control of the region, so the terrorist group, which has been defeated against the heroic Turkish soldier, is moving rapidly towards dividing the Turkish state by new distances. This law is fundamentally against our Constitution. The integrity of the Turkish state is shaken, and the state's founding element ideology is being destroyed. It's not necessary for everyone to stand up to this factual situation and before that to accept it. In the beginning, when Turkey becomes a member of the Grand National Assembly, all lawmakers who are sworn in must come. We solemnly swear to protect the existence and independence of the state, the indivisible integrity of the country and the nation, the unconditional and unconditional sovereignty of the nation. And yet, given the oath, the existence of the state is not left with this law, but the process of division begins, the nation's unconditional sovereignty is lost, the Constitution is destroyed, the Ataturk principle and its words are destroyed, so everything we've made is destroyed, and we're left with responsibility. Okay, are we aware of our responsibility? Do we keep our vows? After such laws, the authority that is written in the House is the country that is behind us. I also imagine that the promise of Ataturk will be removed in the next time period. If this bill passes through Parliament, you will no longer be able to call the PKK a terrorist organization. We'll be faced with the law that promotes terrorism, illegality. The terrorists with guns in their hands will take our country hostage with brute force and we'll have the law they want. Is that true? However, there have been significant developments in our region. Kurdistan is established at our border, Kerkuk is free of Musul Turks, Iraq is divided into three parts, Turkish massacres are being committed, and our country is coming to be divided. I'm asking you, when are we going to keep our vows, no, stop. What are we going to say? The situation is grave. With the PKK resolution process, the laws of the Republic of Turkey are all being destroyed and interestingly, Turkey is being solved. See, right now, the PKK collects taxes in some areas, kidnaps children, recruits soldiers, checks the order. I'm cutting roads, asking for IDs, setting up courts in some places, making judgments. All right, what do you think this is all about? Isn't this the formation of a state, the disintegration of the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey, the disintegration of its state? Shouldn't everyone get a grip, respected lawmakers? The great Turkish nation has given the Justice and Development Party a great deal of authority from 2002, ▪ Legalise the PKK (PK) that lays the groundwork for the division of our country, and establish the state of Kurdistan. Is that what he said? There have been recent developments in our region, and with it, Israel says, "I know Kurdistan." Unfortunately, AKP officials are using the expression "Kurdistan" as well as the expression "knowing" and "knowing" as well. This is where we call out: those who are responsible for today's arrival will surely answer. Whoever has betrayed this country will surely answer for it. History has never forgiven them, and the next time he says he won't forgive them, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0074par0263	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "Secretary of Public Order and Security" in Article 2 of the 3rd article of the proposed law bill 629, be changed to the Ministry of Social Peace and Negotiation, which will be established to co-ordinate and execute the work and procedures in the implementation of the facility of the peace process and the principles for that effect. Nazmi Gür (Van) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0075par0270	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0074par0271	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0076par0272	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0074par0273	Mr. Golden Tan will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0077par0275	Mr. President, members of parliament, we are at the beginning of Turkey's most important issue of the last 30 years, a step towards the solution of the Kurdish issue. From the start of the government says it's a very important step, and we support it, but we've expressed the weakness of its content, the shyness of its attitude and style, the error of the topic title, the draft of the law, all of it. Now, in this motion that we have made, we have an offer that will be made to carry out co-ordinating and execution of the work and procedures on the establishment of the peace process and the implementation of the principles of the public order and security process, which is part of the third article (2). So why are we making such an offer? Dear friends, first of all, I don't understand what this Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has done. So the Republic of Turkey has the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Interior, the Security Directorate, the Office of Security Intelligence, the Office of Anti-Terrorism, and there is also the Office of National Intelligence, within the military, military intelligence within the General Staff, foreign intelligence within the State Department. And why was the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security needed? What does he do? What has he done so far? What was the result, and what was the result? What kind of work portfolio does he have? Personally, I don't know. Dear friends, in Turkey, the ministry of institutions has been established on many issues -- I mean, I don't want to say it out of respect. I don't want to mention the names of these ministries, I don't want to make this simple, but the most important issue of Turkey is a matter of thirty years, forty years, and a matter that has cost the lives of 50,000 people, causing a major loss of national income, who is running it, how is it running it, how is an institution, and how is the organization missing. It's being tried to get organized, it's the right step, but it's also taking it for granted again -- again -- as I've been trying to underline -- to transfer it, its function, its position, its staff, its work, its work, its work, its work, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, it's done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done, its done. Dear friends, what else could be more urgent, more important, and more important, than the resolution of tens, hundreds, thousands of events today because of the unresolved Kurdish issue, which has caused these 30 years, 40 years, major injuries? I mean, the roads the Prime Minister often said, bridges, dams, tunnels, what? Today, Turkey has no more important issue than this issue, dear friends. So, immediately, about this issue, we're saying that we need to establish a private, private, private ministry, a specific ministry, that political will, political action should be clear, and that's why we're proposing this amendment proposal. This is not a matter to be taken by an executive directorate, an undersecretary, a bureaucratic unit, like the General Directorate of the Highways, or the Office of Tapu and Kadastro. 1) Turkey is the most important issue for today. 2) It needs to be focused on with appropriate precision. 3) A political position must be established, the position of a negotiating and resolution committee at the minimum level of the ministry. 4) All these talks and dialogues must be conducted transparently in front of parliament and in politics with politicians. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0078par0287	Thank you, Mr. Tan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on Article 3 of the bill, to read the motion and call for signatures: 629 Orders 3 of the Numbered Bill. We propose that the vote of the clause be held in the form of an open vote. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Faruk Bal, Iconya? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya? Here. Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, Izmir? Here. Bahattin Sugar, Bilek? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul? Here. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[The electronic device started voting.]] By the way, Mr. Tanal, I have the report. The sentence you're claiming is that Mr. Tanal is more of an explanation than a question. This is the sentence. I don't see any reason to pick on you here, I'll tell you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0079par0317	But when it's done, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0080par0318	Mr. President, if you continue, what does it say down there: the power outage is not a matter of direct concern to me. How does the ministry not concern the public's power outage?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0078par0319	Are you taking this as a taunt?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0080par0320	Sure.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit03spe0078par0321	Mr. Tanal, thank you. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] A clear vote on Article 3 of the Law Bill 629: ▪ Number of votes used: 209 [[x]] Matter accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. The commission is here. The government is here. The third article was accepted, and now I'm reading the fourth article: MADDE 4- (1) The duties provided under this Law are carried out immediately by relevant public institutions and organisations. (2) The legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who perform the tasks provided under this Law does not arise. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Levent Gök will speak.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0081par0010	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of the Law Bill 629, which we are discussing. I salute you all with love and respect. It's one of the most problematic elements of the bill brought in, my dear friends. I really couldn't believe it when I was watching our Deputy Prime Minister yesterday. ▪ The legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who carry out the duties given under this law does not arise. As he explained the article, the Ministry of Justice stated that this clause was covered and would not cause problems by consulting officials, high judiciary members, judges, jurisprudences. Mr. Secretary, I hope this matter doesn't stay this way; I hope and wish that this will be replaced by the motions to be made, and the border, the volume, will come to us as a limited substance. If this clause remains in this form -- you have consulted the most respected lawyers of Turkey, you have consulted the Minister of Justice, you have consulted the members of the judiciary -- it opens up a student who goes to first class of law school and tells you that this article is contrary to many articles of the Constitution. If this clause remains this way and cannot be changed, it will return from the Constitutional Court, the valued MPs, because with this clause you bring legal, criminal and administrative irresponsibility to persons or persons. I'm gonna have to put this away. Why do you have to lift it? This will be violated by the second article of our Constitution when it stays that way, because the second article of our Constitution states that the Republic of Turkey is a state of social law. Again, the Fifth Amendment of our Constitution commands that all persons are equal before the law, and that no one should be granted privileges. The 40th article of our Constitution has granted the right to appeal to the authorities of all who have been violated the rights and freedoms of the Constitution, and again the 125th article of our Constitution has made its definitions against all actions and procedures. Mr. Secretary, I hope and wish that, after these talks, we may be able to contribute, but this clause should not remain in the text of the law, it is against the rule of law. In the Kurdish problem, which is our country's most important problem, if we're going to come up with mutual solutions in the problem of terrorism, we're going to do it by staying within the law. We can't bring democracy, human rights, by repealing the law. When we protect the law, democracy is an integral part of democracy and law. Dear lawmakers, a few years ago, we went to England to see the IRA problem, some of our friends here, together with some members of parliament, to get some views on the end of these conflict environments abroad. Jonathan Powell, who led the peace process in England and was Tony Blair's chief advisor, told us: "It is like riding a bicycle to end these conflicts. From the moment you get on the bike, you have to pedal so you don't fall. You've been on the bike a few times, and you fell after you didn't turn the pedal. Now, what we want, if we're going to ride a bicycle, is that we all have to ride together in a sense of responsibility by putting our hands on the stone, because it's not clear when you're going to turn the pedal on the bike, or when you're not going to. But on such an important matter, if we form a common agreement, you will be known as the Republican People's Party, and we will turn that pedal. I consider it a duty to pass this clause on to AKP spokesman and especially to you, Minister. In this framework, valued lawmakers, as the Republican People's Party, we are aware that the Republic of Turkey is not a republic of religion, sects, races and skulls, as a party that has signed very important laws, proposals, research proposals. Turkey has a pluralistic structure in terms of ethnicity. Thus, the main feature of our republic is that it is a republic of political consciousness. Throughout the Republic's Liberation War, this understanding was established with the common contribution and equal weight of everyone from various ethnic backgrounds in Anatolia. The understanding and policies that ignore one or more of the elements of this rich mosaic are inadmissible and unacceptable. Tests, ideology and policies, based on denial of this fact, are not going to provide solutions, as they are not going to be modern. It is wrong to view Turkey's cultural wealth, diversity in society, the existence of different mother languages as a political obstacle to the integrity of the country and to form policy according to this. In addition to being wrong, it is an assessment of the historical facts of the republic's founding process beyond the will and desire of the political staffs who established the republic. The social, cultural, social and economic dimensions of the issue have been repeatedly neglected, as extraordinary rules are constantly set instead of looking for solutions to problems in the region within democracy. It's wrong to see the natural needs of democracy as a blessing, a sacrifice, a timing. Mr. President, valuable MPs, national integrity is at the beginning of our basic political choice as the Republican People's Party. The fact that people living within national borders come from different ethnic backgrounds, different cultural, religious, religious characteristics, is not a barrier to living together, has not been done for centuries. Not to accept these differences, to ignore them, to ignore them is not only contrary to the facts, but as a nation, as a nation, it is a way to prevent modernisation in modernity. As CHP, we view national integrity as the basis of democracy, development, domestic peace and regional peace. It is not an obstacle to national integrity that our people who live within national borders carry language, religion, sects, and ethnic differences. Their attempts to remove these differences cannot be a state policy. Attempts to implement policies based on the interests of a religious religion, an ethnic structure based on difficult pressure, will lead to deep depressions throughout the country. State policy can't be created on any of the differences in society. For years, for centuries, our people have rejected these primitive approaches and lived together in peace. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the republic is built on these differences. To this end, we view secularism as a guarantee of the protection of different sects and religious differences, of living together and in peace. We want to view citizenship as a political interpretation, a social interpretation of seeing them together without looking at anyone's ethnicity, language, culture, individuality. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have been living in Anatolia for centuries as a unit that has lived together and formed unity, just as no ethnic group on this land is hostile to the other, beyond the blame. In the Republican People's Party's policy, the state does not deal with ethnic differences in society and sectarian differences, it does not take sides in such differences, it sees all citizens as equal, righteous members of the republic. The state makes general political arrangements to reach society's modern values system. It's the need for modern, participatory, democratic, valid and functioning integration. Other than that, politics are coercion, artificial. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we have to find the path to common humanity as a society by abandoning the narrow, shallow, negative values of the past, standing up against ethnic discrimination, ideologies. The Republican People's Party is aware of the country's problems, the region's problems. We believe that we can solve all these problems in the unity of the country by trusting the public and trusting the public. One of our basic political preferences is democracy. In the face of democracy and the framework I've just expressed, the Republican People's Party will continue to address the problem of the east, the Kurdish problem, the southeast problem, whatever it may be, the bleeding problem of our country. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with love, with respect.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0082par0023	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı will speak.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0083par0026	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of our party regarding the 4th Amendment. You've heard speeches about the entire bill on behalf of our party. I agree with that. Yeah. To use time more efficiently, I'm going to talk about this particular substance. Of course, I'll express our general concerns. I think the law coincides with what is called totology in philosophy. To say that what is already the case is so: The duties given under the law are carried out immediately by concerned public institutions and organizations. • Is there a law that is not carried out immediately? Since it can't be, the first joke of this article is completely unnecessary. The second is that the legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who carry out the duties provided under this Law does not arise. If the law is the law, if it is in accordance with the Constitution, there will be no responsibility for punishment when the tasks have already been carried out. But it was obviously thought that since the tension within the state and within the AKP is being thought of as part of some kind of square conflict, that any prosecutor in any way could not attempt to interrogate any state official, given the two that surround the judiciary. But, of course, as always, this scope is incomplete and conflicted with the concept of the process, which the law has not broken down in many languages. Because what you call the process is the relationship between creation and destruction, the context. There's something that disappears, something else takes its place, something else disappears, something else takes its place. I mean, it's not an ongoing declaration, it's a transition from one situation to another. For it to happen this way, it may be to create a reciprocity between the forces of war and peace, and to strengthen the peacekeepers. But what we see here is that it's only about building power to government officials. I, to be honest, would like to say that this is a conflicting approach to the concepts of peace and peace mentioned. However, we're also going to make a amendment proposal -- you know we're not going to vote against the law, we're going to vote for the law, we said that. The only reason is that the only reason why we're going to vote in this law, in its full name, in its scope, in its vocabulary, is because it's finally revealed that it needs to produce a parliamentary approval for the solution process, that all parties and forces in Parliament are open to the view, whether they want to or not, can be able to use parliamentary control power together. So, despite all our debates, we're going to vote positive, along with our amendment motion. However, this substance must be changed. As long as it doesn't change, it will be revealed that all of our citizens who are going to participate in civil society, public space will participate in the process with a much less protection than that of government officials. A simple example: If I were an ordinary citizen, if I had no immunity, the law that would protect the state officials who would protect him if I began to apply the rhetoric and execution used by lawmakers in front of a prosecutor who does not share the same opinions as I do in the ongoing process of solutions, if I did not have parliamentary immunity. So we're going to conclude that the ways of society to participate in this solution have never been opened in any way, that this is no longer a two-sided, dialectic process, that this is nothing but a government exercise, that it can't be anything but a government exercise. So, in this case, this substance must be replaced. As a whole, I'd also like to ask our representatives who oppose this law: Why are you so stingy with a better law than that, why are you so stingy with putting forward a more consistent peace project, a more consistent way and procedure than that? Why does it seem to you that there is a constant denial that will mean nothing more than the continuation of the conflict? I understand and accept part of what they say. For example, it is a clear fact that what the martyr families say in this process and that their sensitivity should also be taken into account; it is a bedahet; it is not possible to think otherwise, but I would also like to ask: What about the living martyrs? Look, in Turkey, with a rough calculation, from the beginning of this conflict to 2013 until the declaration of non-conflict, about 6 million-year-olds served in the area of conflict. All of these young people have suffered a mental trauma one way or another. My dear friend Nadire Mater, the series of interviews entitled the book Mehminden, is full of what the men who went through this conflict went through, and what they're all telling us is that all the boys who went to the army were suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. It's the name of the people... and this people have named it after the mad blood. It should not be surprising that youths who have returned from the military are constantly prone to violence and that young people who have done military service in the area are now behind many violent cases. So it's okay to cry after the martyrs, but if these kids didn't live now, if a bullet accidentally hit them and not their friends, they'd be martyrs. Now our country is full of these living martyrs, and they are all heavily burdened with the burden of this war. What are they offered to get rid of this post-conflict stress disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder? Pretty much nothing. We have friends who have been searching for this proposal to be delivered just before the presidential elections. I say there's no need to seek purpose, that's the intention, but there's nothing more legitimate in politics. Our friends who object to this should have come ahead of the presidential election with a much better suggestion. We should have asked that the presidential candidates, before anyone else -- without leaving the other presidential candidates -- be the spokesman for peace, resolution, an offer expressing equal citizenship, and we should have waited for that. So the problem with this law is not that it intends to start a dynamic of solving a conflict, but that it does it too late and very little. The Justice and Development Party, in fact, has all the characteristics of Turkish statehood on all its negative features. The basic characteristic of Turkish stateism is that society meets the demands of its rulers, but it's too late and very little welcome. That's the principle of it, too late, too few. But because it's more than nothing, we have a positive attitude about the entire law because the Parliamentary audit has opened its door. It is also important that the Republican People's Party has changed its current stance and has chosen a way to prevent this law from happening. I'm guessing that the MPs of the National Movement Party will have actually drawn a conclusion from these discussions. Because politically, it can't be that the three parties of the House are in one place, and a party is definitely in front of them, not taking a position on a problem that has left its homeland in the middle. This is a conflict created by ancient arguments that failed to meet the new situation, and it will be resolved in a certain time. I think the MHP will strive to be part of the solution process. Because among the masses they represent, the victims of this conflict are thousands. It is not possible to vote positive for this clause in this manner, but it is possible to merge with a change plan. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0042	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0043	Mr. President, the speaker also mentioned the nationalist movement party's name in his speech. I'd like to respond to him by combining our motion on behalf of the group and the answer.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0044	However, Mr. Honey, I have listened to the speaker very seriously. He spoke extremely constructively, so he didn't use any words that were offensive...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0045	Mr. President, the party policies of the National Movement Party, the MP of an opposition party...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0046	If you'll excuse me. There's one thing I don't understand. I can't talk. Why is that? I didn't finish my sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0047	Go ahead and talk, then listen to me.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0048	Thank you for letting me. He spoke in a very constructive language. Both parties have made suggestions to the Republican People's Party and to the National Movement Party on their positions on the solution process. I got the notes, too. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0050	Is there an expression in your notes, Mr. President, in old words?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0051	You're just being petty. He said.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0052	Is there a word for it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0053	It's a metaphor.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0054	If so, I have the right to answer, and you can appreciate it.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0055	I'll give you my word you'll speak on behalf of your group for ten minutes. The speaker made a metaphor, Mr. Bal, with that phrase.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0085par0056	Let me make that metaphor come true.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0084par0057	Okay, now I promise you, you'll make a metaphor. Mr Faruk Bal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0086par0061	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The National Movement Party is able to root out its political ideas from historical facts to shed light on the 100 years ahead of it, the thousand years ahead. The National Movement Party, which pronounces the word "sisterhood law of a thousand years" and puts it in Turkish political life, now thinks fundamentally differently about this law, which three political parties support for a hundred years on different grounds. The reason why we think differently is because it's a matter of terrorism, not an ethnic problem. It's a matter of terrorism, and becoming an ethnic problem is the product of a hundred-year-old account. A hundred years ago, the countries that imposed the BOP as a global force on Turkey today share the Ottoman Empire's lands after the First World War with Wilson's Principles. The married man goes home, goes to the village, and there's only one Turkish nation left, homeless, homeless, no stove, no country, no state. In Anatolia, there is no defence, there is self-defense; that is the whole country. The voice of the nation came out for this reason, and the word of the nation came out for this reason; that's why mandaism was rejected, and that's why slavery was rejected; in Wilson's Principle, in the Mudanya Convention, that's why the great Kurdistan and the great Armenia in Sevr Agreement was rejected. Now, a hundred years have passed, times have changed, and the heifer at the time has become enormous global power; the Wilson Principles at the time, the Mudanya Agreement, the Sevr Agreement. The chairman of the Justice and Development Party is the co-chair of this BOP. Here are the borders on the Ottoman lands, either changing the borders or changing the political regimes, the BOP project implemented within its framework, the Libyan project, Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, and Turkey at the table. This law is that Turkey should be divided into ethnic parts and that Barzani would declare our independence. Yes, we can immediately recognize the answer from Israel. The fact that AKP Vice President Hüseyin Çelik has come, yes, we can recognize it. Of course, all citizens of the Republic of Turkey are equal, regardless of their religion, language, race, and race, everyone is the equal son of this country, this nation. No one can be subjected to an equal treatment or unfair treatment in front of the law for any reason, and that's all there is to it. From different origins of individual meanings, religion, sectarians and ethnically different origins, we are opening up all the freedom areas that our citizens accept from universal law; this is the project of the National Movement Party, and let those who don't know learn. However, under no circumstances can it be given collective rights based on ethnic identity, faith identity; under no circumstances is there self-defense; the sale is the whole country. It cannot be returned from its promise; under no circumstances can the will of the nation appoint and appreciate the future of the nation. This is the philosophy of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. This law is a matter of leaving this philosophy to see the outcome of the plan a hundred years ago when the project was revealed a hundred years later. Ten years ago, when the AKP came to power 12 years ago, the PKK's terrorist organisation's activity had dropped to zero and was in disarray and disarray. What has become of the PKK today, as a result of AKP's surrenderist, compromiser policies? The story did not begin in Oslo, there were earlier, but in the process of surrendering in Oslo, the BOP Co-Chair Mr. Prime Minister sent state officials to negotiate the unitary structure of the Republic of Turkey's state, national integrity and national sovereignty with the PKK terrorist organization. This bargain has continued, and now it's at peace. And this is the conclusion that under the name of this article, the valued lawmakers should not cry in the process of making these talks, which began with Oslo. Under the name of this promise, the PKKK will come down from the mountain, and will go out of the country under the name of the PKKK. This is the result of a fabrication, such as a hoax. The PKK, yes, has descended from the mountain; it has come down with its gun; it has landed in the village; it has landed with its gun; it has landed in the town, with its district, with its territory. Where it lands, members of the PKK's terrorist organization are armed at night, day-to-day. At night he threatens with a gun, and during the day he collects tributes from citizens of the state of the Republic of Turkey under the name of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Against this crime, the AKP government is silent, unable to operate the state's organs. In addition to this crime, there is a second grave crime. I am recruiting troops for the Turkish Republic of Turkey. The children between 15 and 25 years of age are being taken to the mountain, being persuaded or threatened. Here, the mothers are crying in front of Diyarbakır City Hall. Mothers shouldn't cry. She doesn't hear how many mothers' silent screams when they're called the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The PKK, which collects taxes and recruits troops, is doing security checks this time. The government's security unit is setting up a terrorist organization checkpoint 250 metres ahead of the gendarmes. The soldier sees it, he can't make a sound. Why? They've got the security forces tied up. He'll ask the governor's permission. He'll ask the governor's permission. The governor and the governor are instructed, they won't allow it. The police station is being shot at, it has no authority to respond, and the PKK terror organization, which does security checks, collects taxes, recruits, is also setting up a court. My dear friends, the Constitutional Law is the name of an organism that receives taxes, recruits the man, establishes a court, controls order. The AKP has handed over the operational control of some cities and districts in the Southeast Anatolian Region to PKK terror organization, with its process from 2002 to now -- not named -- to use state authority. This law is supposedly a law to free the Prime Minister, ministers and other state officials from law enforcement during the negotiations with that PKK terrorist organisation. This law is of no use to anyone else. The essence of this law is the (2)th joke of the 4th article. The tail is stuck in the door, the law is caught, how do we get out of here? It's the essence of matter. Such acts will not be subject to a legal, administrative and criminal action involving national domination, unitary state structure, the establishment philosophy of the Republic of Turkey, which is negotiable, recklessness, spleen, betrayal. Put this clause here as much as you want, Mr. Secretary, under no circumstances, as long as the state of the Republic of Turkey exists, if there is law in this constitution, you will never be able to get away with it, from it, from the punishment, from the floor. Here's the Prime Minister putting himself in the presidency to get out of it. When he goes to the presidency, he will not be punished for alleged treason, but the Prime Minister does not know what the presidential office is. Someone has to tell the Prime Minister, for God's sake, from the language he speaks. The Constitution says that the president is the head of the state, the head of the nation, the head of the nation, the head of the nation, an irresponsible, irresponsible office. The Prime Minister says: "I will be delegated, I will continue the process, I will continue the process, I will fight the parallel. If there is a parallel structure, the parallel structure is in Southeast Anatolia. Therefore, my dear friends, the Prime Minister cannot survive this, and the rest will not. If there are those who do not know what power and will the Turkish nation has when the knife is based on bone, let them understand that once again, it has the power to read its high will about the War of Salvation, to understand it once again, and how a new state has been created from ashes, to build a state. My dear friends, this matter is so grave, so serious, and the law in front of us is so serious and so precipitous... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the national, independent and unitary state structure, the nation's integrity, represents violent provisions.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0087par0076	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0086par0077	To make it a sound in their hearts that we can't measure the patriotism of the Justice and Development Party, a breath in their conscience.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0087par0079	Mr. Honey, thank you. Before we start talking, I'm going to make a metaphor. You said, Mr. Bal, you did it, it's on the record. Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr Mehmet Galip Ensarioğlu will speak, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0088par0084	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 4th amendment of the bill. I hereby salute your high council. Turkey has gone a long way towards solving a problem that is very important, considered the mother of all problems, and has the courage to solve a problem that has done enormous damage to our state and our nation in almost every area over the years. As a government, we are trying to close a wound that has caused major economic, political, and legal damage, but, above all, has suffered a great deal of human suffering. As we know, we've been working on a solution for the last year and a half. The purpose of this process, which has great support from very large parts of society, is clear: to stop the flowing blood, to soothe the tears, and to create a permanent peace, peace, and stability in our homeland. That's the goal, and because our society has seen this clear goal, it stands behind both our government and the process. In the remaining year and a half, significant gains have been achieved. First of all, our children have not lost their lives in conflict. There has been a democratic basis where we can calmly discuss problems and the possibilities of solutions. Looking at the experiences of countries with similar problems in the world, such processes seem to be going through similar stages. In this kind of process, the first step is to start negotiations. The peace process is passed on to society and socialized. The government's institutions and officers will prepare the necessary infrastructure. If this stage is successfully overcome, the second stage will certainly create a legal framework. This framework is determined by national and international law. In addition to the legal framework, the first stage of operations and the next procedure in the context of the process are subject to legal guarantees. Congressmans, this bill that we're discussing today is the beginning of phase two in the process of resolving. In the event of the bill's legalisation, the process, which has so far been run by operational and administrative decisions, will be a legal basis. The bill, as you know, contains a general perspective on what will be done at every level of the process with a general arrangement, linking what will be done to legal guarantees, giving important tasks to the government. The government will be able to negotiate with individuals and groups inside and outside the country, take the necessary measures for the integration of gun-laden members into the community, and resort to legal, economic and political measures to ensure the end of this process. All these activities, of course, will be under the control and knowledge of the House. The bill puts Parliament at the center of the process. It makes every member of our party and member of parliament a part of the process, and the Parliament, which is the centre of the nation's will, is the address of the nation's important problem. So the bill, as some of our opposing paralegal friends claim, is not the government, but the Assembly, in fact, making the will of Parliament strong and dominant. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important articles of the bill, which we are conducting talks on, is the fourth article of the bill. According to this clause, those involved in the process will not be punished legally, administratively or legally. The reason for this substance is to remove the anxiety of those who avoid contributing to the process because of the legal gap and remove the anxiety of those who perform and will in various ways in the process. In this sense, it is intended to avoid missing major social benefits due to personal concerns. This clause is of great importance to everyone involved in the process, but it is of greater importance to our public officials in particular. When the bill is passed, the process will be adopted as a state policy, so that state institutions and officials can contribute to the process in their own areas and carry out their duties in legal security. Of course, in order for the process to proceed in a solid manner, such legal protection must be provided to all who will serve in the process. Dear lawmakers, our opposition parties seem to object to this clause most of all. Some opposition speakers say that the clause invites lawlessness, that a lot of illegal work can be done based on this clause, but there is no question of accountability for these irregularities. In this sense, new greens, often on the agenda, will appear. On the one hand, despite a thousand political risks, who would kill to make this process more healthy? It's a process that's already started so that people don't die, and...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0089par0091	The rangers are people, aren't they? Why don't you speak up while they're being killed?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0088par0092	Since the day our government came to power, they have fought with the Greens, the Gangs, the Unsubs, and they have no longer been allowed in the days of our government. Besides, it's the Kurdish problem itself that creates the Greens and the Unsubs. Now, while we solve this problem, the new perpetrator will experience unknowns. Now, there is a new Turkey, free of such terrible events. Our citizens and their valued representatives should be free from such unwarranted concerns. Besides, there are allegations about the 4th article, again, to be too abstract, to have a vague content, and ultimately to provide unlimited protection for their needs. It has to be known that this substance does not allow unlimited irresponsibleness to anyone. It has to be clear that the effort to put the process on the legal ground is also an effort to make it concrete, but it shouldn't reach the levels that make public officials and interested people unable to move, unable to do business. We can never miss the reality of the geography we live in, and geography must be well known as destiny. In Syria, Iraq, the Middle East, there's always been a change and development in the Middle East, and while these developments affect our country and the process of resolution in every sense, of course, our Parliament must create legal areas of action and protection for those concerned in the interests of the country. Today, the countries that we've been watching with concern have become like this because they can't solve their vital problems in their own parliament; Turkey is a tremendous maturity in this sense. Dear lawmakers, sometimes we fall into delusions just like we do, whereas we're not alone in the universe, and we're not the only ones who are busy with these problems. There have been countries in various parts of the world that have had problems similar to ours, and there are still countries that have problems. Of course, each country's problem and solution has its own unique aspects, so it should be learned from them and taken advantage of in producing our own solution. When the world's solution processes are evaluated, all of them seem to be on a legal basis over time when the process of negotiations begins. The establishment, norms and procedures the process requires can only be created on a legal basis. As a matter of fact, the legal ground is the legal strengthening and support of the process. We need that kind of support, because the solution takes time, and there's more work to be done. This law will strengthen and enlarge the support of the people that they already have for the process. This law will create infrastructure to support the idea that democratic will will overcome the problem. The meeting of institutional and legal reform demands, strengthening rights and freedom areas, well-planning the return home process will take place through this infrastructure. Although the nature and content of all these legal ground discussions have changed from country to country, Turkey has the pride of being a country that once acted under the pressure of international public opinion by developing self-restraints and solutions, while it is now a country whose name has been identified with violations of rights, peace with its citizens, free of complexes, and contributes to universal law by creating accusations in this area. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that this bill will contribute greatly to social reconciliation and the development of a shared vision of peace. My blood is that the legislation of the bill will be one of the greatest honors for the 24th-century MPs. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0090par0102	Thank you, Mr. Ensarioğlu. Let's move on to the speech section on behalf of the individuals. The first speaker on behalf of him is Mr. Reza Mahmut Turmen, İzmir MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0091par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, no matter what we think of this, no matter what window we look at, there's a very big fact that we can't ignore, over the past two years, that the conflict has stopped in the region and the funerals haven't come, even though the deaths haven't been complete. That, of course, is a fact that should never be underestimated. However, it is not the solution itself, it is a truce. If you can't replace the truce and turn the truce into a solution, it'll be difficult to keep the truce going. For him, it's very important to turn the truce into a solution. Will this bill of law be able to turn a ceasefire into a solution? I don't think there's enough of a bill in that regard. Even as a frame, it's not enough. I don't underestimate the bill when I say it, the bill is important. Its significance is this: For the first time, a bill was introduced to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the Kurdish issue or perhaps the Kurdish problem. That's why we support it as a principle, but when we say it, the heart would love to have a bill that would be much more constructive, much more contributing to the solution. The first problem of the bill, as it is stated in its title, is the end of terrorism, he says. But if we want a solution in the region, this solution is based on basic rights and demands of freedom, and there are basic rights and demands of freedom. If we're looking for a solution without considering these demands, we're not going to get that solution. So you have to see the solution on the axis of rights and freedoms. This bill doesn't do that. The bill, apart from that, gives the government infinite authority. The government already has some of those powers. For example, the Council of Ministers says that they are authorized to make the necessary decisions regarding the solution process. There are such useless things as this. And of course, the most objectionable part of the bill is the (2)th joke of this 4th article. Such absolute irresponsibility is unacceptable, such absolute irresponsibility is impossible, such absolute irresponsibility is given to authorities, not given to people. So it's given to the President, it's given to the MP, it's given to such absolute irresponsibility, but it's not given to people. So you have to limit this irresponsibleness, this exemption to the task, to limit it to the people who are doing it, so, I don't know, you have to limit it to negotiations or limit it to the solution process, and you have to limit it to the people who are doing it. In this way, like this, it's open-ended... under this law it says. Then, the law is already so vague that it's so limited that it's an extremely dangerous substance to give the authority to which officers... Another issue, of course, is that when the government is given so much broad authority, the problem arises: If fundamental rights and freedoms lie at the root of the problem, fundamental rights and freedoms are not regulated by regulations. It's supposed to be regulated by regulations, because it's left to the government. Basic rights and freedoms are always regulated by the law, that's the law of human rights. The second problem, of course, is that the possibility of going to the Constitutional Court against them will be eliminated because it will be regulated by regulations. We always say that for a solution, a legal basis should be restored, but the legal ground is not the legal basis for this law. So what we're saying is that giving authority over everything to the government is not a legal basis, nor is giving such unlimited protection to the person who conducts the negotiations. What we're saying is that the legal ground is the withdrawal of this to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it's transparency. In his speech, we bring the matter to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. He said, "There is no sign of it, but there is no sign." So, the legal ground is this: a negotiation must be held in accordance with the law, between the parties envisioned by the law -- because the sides of the talk today are obvious -- and a proper debate must be held within the framework of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And we have a law proposal that shows how to withdraw to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Perhaps it would be helpful to consider him. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0092par0117	Thank you, Mr. Specten. Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Gülay Samancı, MP of Konya.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0093par0119	No, Gülşen Orhan.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0092par0120	You've changed, haven't you?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0093par0121	We did it.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0092par0122	Mr. Gülşen Orhan, Van MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0094par0124	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on Article 4 of the Law Bill 629. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, I wish the talks from this bench had begun decades ago. For the first time, Turkey has tried to solve its problems itself, can speak, argue, negotiate, and break its taboos. If it could have been spoken earlier, this country would not have wasted its children, its resources, its future, and its time. Not only could our country be left alone, but also the Middle East and our neighboring countries depend on it. The only way we can get together is by heart language, truth, experience, and understanding of them. The year is 2014. People who have been destined for a thousand years, the deaths of the last century, the exiles, they can speak again after suffering, they can express will in the construction of the future, it's not little, it's precious MPs. I wish this could've been talked about from tens of years ago. If it could be spoken, brothers could understand each other's pain, empathize, and work out a solution, and understand how far away our past was from reality. I'd like to address a brief historical cross section, my fellow congressmen. The point of my reference to historical sections is that each of our very valuable orator friends on this stand has opposed this bill from different groups, few have found it, few have said it was inadequate, there have been those who strongly stated that it would divide this country, and there have been those who said it was a bill that needed for Turkey. Good, everyone can express their opinion, speak, and peace can be built from here, but dear friends. I think the point of wanting to make a historical division is that the facts, how important the experiences are, and what's happened in this country in the past, and a process, will be very brief. At the end of the 19th century, a very small district to the east of Anatolia, the smallest, most remaining district of Turkey: Mukus, former name Mukus, new name Bahzsaray. There are two madrases in this district: one is Arvas Medresesi and the other is Mir Hasan Veli Medresesi. These two madrese teach in two languages under the Ottoman State: Kurdish and Turkish. In these two languages, religion teaches people about science, humanities, medicine, literature, history, mathematics, and other subjects. It also teaches cultural, social, and all kinds of artistic education, as it trains people, in which the Kurds, Turks, Armenians can live for a thousand years as brothers. That's how important education is. These madras make these people neighbors, and together, they can live in brotherhood for a thousand years without slaughtering or slaughtering each other. Dear friends, we are coming to the end of the 20th century. He's still being sacrificed to a single system that I personally can't comprehend for what it's done, this unity, this unity, this training, this love, this geography. All Medrases and religious institutions are shut down, and for sixty years nothing is replaced, dear friends. Here is one of the sources of the problems we face today: friendship, brotherhood, integrity, all come from love, empathy, speech, and solution, dear friends. If we can't talk, if all wars end in peace, we can't reach it, but we can do it by talking, by agreeing. A dear friend of ours just said, "We didn't get the War of Salvation for nothing, we didn't live in vain. The Kurds and Turks built the War of Salvation together, just as the Kurds and Turks would build the future together on this stand today in 2014. We hope that the Kurds will not end up like they did then, while Kurds and Turks live together for another thousand years. I'd like to wish this bill of law to be a blessing.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0095par0133	Thank you, Mr. Orhan. Congressmans, there is a motion issued according to Article 72 of the Civil Code: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Four of the bill. further talks on Article 72. Md. I'll give it to you. Yours truly. As a result of the search for alliances in the presidential election process, the PKK's terrorist organisation, brought to the agenda of the PKK with the threat of the separatist PKK terrorist organization and legitimised PKK terror organization, made the PKK terror organisation legal and equal to the government's legal and equal, making the terrorist organization the basis of direct negotiations with the PKK and a political will, legalising the political process of meeting with the government, representing the government's sovereign will, representing the government's weapon -- the PKK terrorist organisation's terrorist organisation, turning terrorist organisations into the legitimate mutilation of the state, which has made its political aims legal and guarantees to change its sovereignty by changing the government's arms -- instead of the country's sovereign will -- the state's sovereign power -- has no basis for violating the state's sovereignty, the state's freedom of the state --free state's freedom of the state -- that has no basis for violating the state's freedom of the state, and the state's freedom of terrorism. I pledge allegiance to the rule of law, democratic and secular Republic and the principles of Ataturk and the teachings of society, peace and well-being, national solidarity and justice, that I will not abandon all people's rights and fundamental freedoms and loyalty to the Constitution in front of the great nation of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0096par0141	Let him read again and correct it, not Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0097par0142	It will be Turkish people, not Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0098par0143	Fix it up, Turkish nation...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0099par0144	The great Turkish nation........ I said so.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0100par0145	Go ahead. ...the negotiations were recommended to continue in order to further be informed of the arrangement that would damage this oath. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Congressmans, there's a question-answer section. I'll take ten minutes, five minutes to answer the question, five minutes to answer the question. I promise my fellow congressmans who have entered the system. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0101par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as part of the so-called solution process, how many officers and Turkish Armed Forces have been processed by your government for reasons that they have or have not interfered with the PKK? If it was done, what kind of punishments were given, and if it wasn't done, why wasn't it done? My second question is: Is it true that PKK claims that revenues from trafficking have increased rapidly in recent years? If so, as part of the solution process, in particular, in the last two years, how much trafficking revenue has the PKK obtained from what sources? Why is it that your government has not been silent and has not done so? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0102par0155	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0103par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister. Children brought to the mountain by the PKK by force, their mothers wait for their children to be rescued crying under the 40 degree heat of Diyarbakır. Do you, as a government, have any work on rescue? My second question: in our country, in recent years, drug use is the most important problem. In the last month, the press has seen that in our country, drug use has been used in a very common way, and its use has been increasing. The increase is greater in young people. Bonzai addiction is not easily treated, it leads to death. As a government, you must fight against the bonzai clause in a different way than any other drug. I'd like to know if you have any work in this direction. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0104par0160	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0105par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have witnessed the speech of HDP and AKP MPs saying that the nation's state structure is not right and that there is a structure for monotheistic mentality. Davutoglu defended the same in his past writings and views. I'm asking the Minister from here, and I want a very clear answer: what state structure do you propose against the nation's state structure, Mr. Secretary? I expect your opinion on that. In particular, the 2nd article (c) of this bill refers to the return of gun-laden members to their homes and social participation and harmony. Are they going to participate in social life without any investigation into the return of this weapon? Otherwise, there will be investigations against them, as in previous legal regulations...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0106par0166	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0107par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the past few days, as you have followed, the mosque of Mohammediye Mosque in Esenyurt district of Istanbul was first set on fire, and then another attack the next day. All doubts are concentrated on ISIS. There's been an attack on another Jaferi mosque in our same district before. Unfortunately, the necessary measures have not been taken, the necessary security measures have not been taken, are you planning to provide special protection for the Jaferi mosque, mosque, foundation, association and institutions in Turkey in the coming period? And there has not yet been a reprimand from your government. Do you intend to publish a message of reproach and wish you well? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0108par0170	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0109par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the southeast, organised elements are terrorizing the cities, burning down buildings and setting fire to them. How many of those who provoke these events have been caught by the people who have burned down the buildings? What procedures have been made about them? In time, how many rangers were slaughtered, how many children were taken to the mountain, how many civilians were taken to the mountain, and then released? How many times has the area been cut off in the process? How many days have the roads been blocked? How many police stations have been attacked? How many outposts have been closed in what you call the solution process? How many outposts are still being built in the area? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0110par0174	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Light is, whether he interfered with the organization or not, the number of investigations, of course, I don't know. But, one thing I do know, because there was no time to intervene on the Bingöl-Diyarbakir road, there was a certain investigation, but I don't know how many people. I've been asked about smuggling. Trafficking, smuggling, Turkey has been fighting drug trafficking for a long time, and in the period of our governments -- I told you the truth about it yesterday -- steps have been taken too far. I mean, our police department is very good at fighting smuggling, and very serious results have been made. Of course, we support mothers and celebrate mothers. I mean, for the first time in the region, it's important to have a mother's voice on the floor. And that's something that the solution process comes from an environment. I mean, the local people now express that there's no place to reach with violence, and they take care of their own children, and they don't want their own children to go to the mountains. And we, in that sense, actually, see them as both important and important, and we support them. With regard to drugs, Mr. Right has a question, and I have answered it together. Here's Mr. Yilmaz. He has a question about the nation's state formation. We believe that in Turkey, as Turkey, as the Republic of Turkey, we are an imperial heir country. You know what an Imperial heir country is. I mean, it's a government that lives in peace, that lives in justice, and we believe it. All the differences, all the riches, living with justice and each with their own values. This is the most important problem of modern governments today. If they can keep the big differences together in harmony, they become great states, or else I'll become a nation state. We all know that, that's the truth. That's our opinion. Mr. Erdemir, about Esenyurt. Mr. Oğan asked me last night. I received information about those mosques. That's right, in Esenyurt, in the mosque of Muhammad, in the library of fire, and in one section.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0112par0182	It's not a fire, it's arson.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0183	The police work there and so on, but there's no indication of the perpetrators. There are various rumors, but they told me that there is no data that the police have identified as the following or the following.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0113par0184	So it's arson or something, right?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0185	Of course, the sensitivity of that is common to all of us. Let go of our Jaferi citizens, all the places of worship -- the mosque of our citizens, other minority groups, there are different religions -- there are security for us. They're the most important, untouchable places. I mean, we condemn them. The places of worship are very private, and I want to express it. Finally, Mr. Yeniçeri is... of course, I don't know the numbers here, I don't know about the power cuts and so on, but in the southeast -- one of the speakers just drew a very different picture -- our government has complete security measures everywhere. In the southeast, in the east, life -- I've expressed it here yesterday -- is more peaceful than ever before. Anyone can go anywhere from here. If you want to go to the most remote villages, visit them, basically...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0114par0189	Are you done with your answers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0115par0190	Mr. Secretary, did the mosque burn down or was it burned down? So the fire started on its own?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0191	Burned, cremated.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0115par0192	He was set on fire again today.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0116par0193	Mr. Secretary, are you finished with your answers?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0194	The last few...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0116par0195	I'll give you the last 40 seconds. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0197	There are indications of arson, but nothing on who did it.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0117par0198	You were just saying "fired," Mr. Secretary. You're mixing fire with arson.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0199	To describe our Southeast, East Anatolian region differently here, different recipes, here, life is like this... now, go, I'll tell you this: every corner of our country is accessible.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0118par0200	How many guards do you reach, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0201	All government units work in every area. There's no alternative tax anywhere, that's what it is; that's not what it's about.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0119par0203	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0111par0204	And I'd like for you to get rid of these fears, these worries, a little bit.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0119par0205	Thank you. Congressmans, we've completed the question-answer process. Now, we'll begin the motion interviews. There are three motions on Article 4 that I am reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 4 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 2 of the Law (a), (b) and (c) are not subject to legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility due to these duties. Mihrimah Belma Line Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Look at your love Tülay Kaynarca Zeynep Karahan Nice Firstinur İnceöz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the current law bill 629 be changed as follows. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Erol Dora Nazmi Gür Faysal Sarıyıldız The legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who hold talks under this Law, participate in talks, talks on talks, and work within the scope of this law does not arise. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the 1/941 Prime Legislature be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Alim Ilm zuhal Topcu Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Özcan Yeniçeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Does the Commission agree with the reading motion?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0120par0236	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0119par0237	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0121par0238	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0119par0239	Mr. Alim Ik will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0122par0242	Mr. President, I've been promised a amendment motion on the 4th Amendment of the underprivileged Law Bill 629. I hereby salute the High Council. Deliberate lawmakers were reanimated during 2003 and 2007 -- the first AKP governments -- and were again one of Turkey's most important agendas after 2007 -- as a result of the 2000-2001 trial of the terrorist organisation leader caught on February 15, 1999. The government launched a new project in a rush with the psychology of being caught red-handed in a hurry when the secret interview records of Oslo talks started in 2009, when it was shared with the public via the Internet. This project was originally called the Kurdish opening, then it became a democratic expansion, then it became called the National Union and Brotherhood Project, and then they didn't solve it, and its last name was the solution process. Dear lawmakers have experienced serious events and serious developments in this period, Turkey. In 2010, he held a referendum on the Constitution, which was related to its purpose, and we warned him on that day, and today he said, "Oh, my God, the government said, but it's too late. Prior to the 2011 elections, an illegal tape operation attempted to lynch a political party, followed by an undisclosed incident related to constitutional amendment demands. In 2012, as part of the resolving process, the government gave as many concessions, the PKK became horny, cut off roads, collected extortion, court-martialed, judged, killed people, and continues to oppose the state of the Republic of Turkey today. Today, when we look at news from some media outlets, it says it's strong against the enemy, a member of the terrorist organization. A copy of a blood-freezing statement from a terrorist named Kokali Bala, who holds a public conference in the village of the Yolchat of lice. The terrorist says that we will establish our own institutions in the fields of justice, education and governance. Our autonomy will be accepted, and we will fight against the state that does not allow it. With compromises, we are stronger against the enemy, which is Turkey. We're not going to let that happen because the dams mean that Kurdistan lands will be divided and torn apart. The process is in our favor, we're stronger than ever. With this power, we will build Kurdistan. We have the means and the ability to do so. We'll call the members of the PKK and the ACK to Kandil. We'll hold consultations. Dear lawmakers, these are a declaration of AKP's kneeling before the PKK. If they are spoken of today, it is the result of AKP (AKP) and the government's concessions to the PKK (PKK). The 4th article is now called the legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who perform these tasks under the Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do you believe that the PKK terrorists who have been discharged without this law, will welcome you after this law has been passed? Do you think that the weapon will be dropped and peace will be restored? The man has declared you an enemy, he sees Turkey as an enemy, you beg, you beg, but the hand's son puts a gun to your neck, makes you kneel. Please, give up this dangerous law, this dangerous game. Don't try to make Turkey look like a rose before the presidential election by talking about peace and all that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You are committing a crime against the Constitution, for the 137th Article of the Constitution, which is a crime, is not carried out by any means; and he who fulfills it cannot be saved from responsibility. Even if you break this law, those who commit this crime will be judged. That's what our motion is intended for. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0123par0252	Dear Light, thank you. Mr. Secretary, on what grounds did you request a statement, please?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0124par0254	Mr. President, the congressman who spoke earlier used concepts such as dissolving, begging, etc. about our government.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0123par0255	You want it because of the bullying? I invite you to the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0125par0256	Is it true or wrong, Mr. Secretary, is it true or wrong? How do you digest it?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0123par0257	You have two minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, those who conduct this kind of work, the great works, have been blamed and blamed in every country. Big business...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0127par0263	Are you expressing yourself?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0264	Those who run the big business are blamed...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0128par0265	Isn't that right or wrong?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0266	But the truth is, it's probably the first time we've seen a congressman in this House who's accused his own government of begging for his own government and kneeling. That's what history is about.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0128par0267	Is this wrong? Did we put this in?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0268	We don't kneel before anyone. We're trying to solve our country's problems, and it's these kind of expressions -- encouraging -- that's what they're trying to solve -- that's treason, that's what they're accusing us of.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0129par0269	Infected is that which ye have been working.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0270	...don't think, don't get to the bottom of it, no matter what you tell them, they have their own admissions, and we already know that.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0129par0271	The PKK gives instructions, you do.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0272	We don't expect you, our friends, to hear anything positive about this process anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0129par0273	You can't hear it.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0126par0274	But no one has the right to insult anyone. I remind you of him here, too. We're satisfied with this, valued lawmakers: We're glad that these issues are free to speak their minds here, without any taboos, without any borders, without any fear. I don't even answer unless it's offensive. I'm glad. Let's hear everything. This Parliament is worthy of it, but this blessed time of glory -- I've always tried to be respectful of Ramadan's kindness, of its kindness -- we don't accept these concepts, we return them. Thank you, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0131par0279	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0280	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0131par0281	He accused me of being weak. I want the word according to the 60th article.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0282	Now, Mr. Light didn't say anything to damage your reputation about yours.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0131par0284	He expressed me in weakness.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0285	If you'll excuse me... Only the negative opinion of this law described what was mentioned. If you'd rather have yourself and your group...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0132par0287	This is the MP who just spoke. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0288	...if you see it on this platform, I will make a promise on the behalf of your group, if Mr. Halaçoglu agrees.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0133par0289	He's already told you. So please...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0290	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0133par0291	He said you, he meant our party.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0134par0292	He said, "It's you, and it's me, the congressman who just spoke to me. "
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0130par0293	Mr. Halaçoglu, you have appointed Mr. Izlum to be acting on behalf of your group.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0133par0294	That's for the person, but it's separate for the group.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0134par0295	I want it for myself. He meant me, the group is separate.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0135par0296	Don't give it to me, Mr. President, don't give it to me.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0136par0297	I'll give you two minutes on behalf of your group, Mr. Light, he hasn't mentioned your name. So if there's any bullying about your group, I promised you two minutes of bullying because Mr. Halaçoglu has appointed you deputy.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0137par0298	The congressman who just spoke, he said.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0138par0299	Mr. President, I'm requesting a personal taunt.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0136par0300	There's no bullying against you. I didn't see any personal bullying.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0139par0301	Mr. President, bring in the transcripts. You'll see if you bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0136par0302	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0304	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, none of the MPs who speak here are in failure. I'll never be able to accept such a thing for my own good. It is a sign that those who claim that we met with the PKK (P.K.K.K.K.K.K.), then carry this medal of honor around their necks.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0141par0305	They've been labeled, they've been labeled...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0306	We didn't say that. We've asked the government if what is written is true, and we share it with you. This terrorist, we are strong against the state of the Republic of Turkey against Turkey, and we will do what we want from now on. I share these words with you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0142par0307	What newspaper is that?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0143par0308	And you're happy with that?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0309	It doesn't matter which paper it is, if you ask the government...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0143par0310	And you're happy with that?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0144par0311	Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0312	Dear lawmakers, the government, who has so far removed the Turkish Armed Forces from that area and kept them silent against all terrorist incidents, wants to join you in their crime.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0143par0313	If these people give you power of attorney, then you do what you want to do.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0314	We say that these provisions, which are part of the bill, are contrary to the Constitution, that you should not be a party to this crime. It won't be us.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0143par0315	Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0145par0316	Don't talk to each other, please, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0140par0317	We view the expansion silliness as a project to destroy the state of the Republic of Turkey, and we will oppose it to the end. People didn't approve of you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0146par0318	The nation approved March 30th, the nation approved. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0147par0319	Why don't you intervene, Mr. President? They've been talking all morning!
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0148par0320	Don't make small talk, Councillors, please... let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0149par0321	You think people approve, people don't approve...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0150par0322	He approves, he approves... every election you make, it's the same thing.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0149par0323	There's no way he's gonna approve. Go listen to the mothers who killed their children in that area, and then you'll see if they approve.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0151par0324	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0150par0325	Come on... come on...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0152par0326	What's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0153par0327	You come in here, you talk, you talk, you say something, you say it. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0154par0329	I'd rather talk here than to come up here and talk like you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0155par0330	Dear Light, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0156par0337	We want roll call...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0155par0338	We've got a roll call. Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Bal, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Right, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Illum, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Kalaycı, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Tesgioğlu, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Öz, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Belen. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 4 of the current law bill 629 be changed as follows. The legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility of those who hold talks under this Law, participate in talks, talks on talks, and work within the scope of this law does not arise. Erol Dora (Mardin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0157par0353	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0155par0354	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0158par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0155par0356	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0159par0358	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the motion that we have submitted over Article 4 of the Law Bill on the Ending of Terror 629 and Enhancing Social Integration. I salute the General Assembly. We have proposed that the declaration of those who carry out the duties of the 4th Article (2) shall be changed to the one who has been engaged in negotiations, negotiated, negotiated, and worked under this law. And our goal here is this: I have made such a motion to expand the scope of those involved in these negotiations -- except for government officials -- as well as for political party officials and others who have been assigned to them. I hope, for the purposes of this law, the entire House supports this motion. Now, as far as we're concerned, you know, this is the first time a frame like this has ever been passed, and we care about that very much. Since 2013, you know, there's been a process of non-conflict in Turkey. So far, the process of solutions has been adopted by the Turkish community. You know, the smart men have been assigned and distributed to different areas. All of Turkey has a support for this solution process, perhaps 80-90 per cent of the public. In fact, if we make an assessment, we can see that during the history of the republic, our main problem is the nation's paradigm that has been established. Because of the creation of such paradigm by the single identity, one belief and homogenization project, different ethnic groups in Turkey, different beliefs, different colors, different cultures are excluded. In this regard, we find it very valuable that for the first time such a framework law is prepared, especially in the context of the initial negotiations and the resolution of the Kurdish problem. We would like to point out that since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, we have found this bill valuable and important because of its precipitous nature, which is a key factor in the country's politics and democracy that has made it feel in various ways since its establishment. Dear lawmakers, it is possible to say that the Kurdish issue has two dimensions. The Kurdish issue is a problem of democracy on one hand and a problem of justice on the other. The Kurdish problem is a problem that first and foremost exposes the depriving of Kurds of their basic democratic rights. With this reputation, the Kurdish issue is primarily a matter of democracy, so what needs to be done to resolve the problem is to dominate democracy with all its institutions and values. In this context, we think that a new democratic civil constitution covering equality and freedom, a democratic approach, a fundamental rule of law for everyone, different cultures, different values, different beliefs, different identities, could be a catalyzing function in solving all of our problems. Dear lawmakers, of course, all political parties have an important responsibility for the establishment of social peace and for the functioning of real democracy across the country, for opening the way for freedoms to be used on both legal ground and in actual use, and for resolving the ongoing rights and inequalities of opportunity, so the Turkish Grand National Assembly has an important responsibility. There is also a dialectic connection between the solution of the Kurdish issue in Turkey and the maturity of the country's general democracy. So that we can't talk about the democratisation of a Turkey that cannot be resolved on the basis of the Kurdish issue. In the same way, I believe that in Turkey, where the Kurdish people are granted equal civil rights, all other social dynamics that need equality, freedom and democracy will be the basis for their democratic demands. I can't express all my thoughts because there's not enough time, but even though there are flaws in this law, we support it. I wish this law would be the basis for the resolving of the Kurdish problem and the evolution of a modern republic, and I salute everyone again.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0160par0366	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 4 of the Law shall be changed in the following way. The first joke of Article 2 of the Law (a), (b) and (c) are not subject to legal, administrative, or criminal responsibility due to these duties. Ashraf Stone (Bingöl) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0161par0374	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0160par0375	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0162par0376	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0160par0377	Mr. Eşref Taş will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0163par0379	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, the two-day debate over the bill to determine the legal framework of the solution process has revealed a fact that we are pleased to discuss, and all my friends who have expressed their views here have asked for peace. Peace is now our common denominator. The objections are more focused on methods. The main thing about peace is that it's really all about the rest. Peace is what we all long for, the people want. Our people have demonstrated a new will for peace. Had it not been for this will, if peace had not been for the people, it might not have been possible to reach where we are now. The will either tore up the government or the PKK. The timid attempts in the 1990s were caused by the failure of public support to be expressed in a strong way. I wish we could protect those who want peace, because to protect those who make peace is to keep peace. This peace has cost us 50,000 lives. He who dies in the mountain is our man, and he who dies in the vineyard is our man, and the blood that flows is our blood, and the tears that flow are our tears, and the soul that goes away is our soul. The pain is our pain, but the mind is not our mind, my friends. Our minds weren't national. How else can we explain that the grandkids of the grandfathers who lay in sheep's sheep, who stand shoulder to shoulder in Çanakkale, who protect the land, who are martyrs and protectors? Every inch of this country has its labors and rights. We are now closing the time when your brother was turned against the brother. Ideology blinds the eyes, puts shackles on the minds. It's clear where we've been led by a government that doubts its own citizen, sees us as potential enemies. Today, we are still troubled by what has been said to the leaders of religion in the name of secularism, the massacre of Dersim, the martyrdom of 33 of us, and so on. Even those who close our eyes, cover our ears, even those who pretend that these events never happened, will one day rise up in rebellion. I'm amazed at people in this age who don't respect the language, religion, culture, life, values, or even names. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, this is not an al-ver process, it's a process of rebuilding people on rights and foundations of this country. In international agreements we side with, in basic texts on human rights and modern law speech, it was romantic yesterday, but it was a real reality that would arrange and guarantee all of my people's rights. And our power is asking you to authorize the construction of this process. Running with justice on the basis of rights is a prerequisite for social peace. Our ancestors did this and created a civilization that lasted six hundred years. The process that broke up the Ottomans a hundred years ago, a hundred years later today...
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0164par0385	The same process is happening today.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0163par0386	...which makes it necessary and necessary for the Ottoman to respect values.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0164par0387	You started the same process.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0163par0388	No one can stop it. We have to succeed. No one can hold anyone at gunpoint and tear our country apart. What holds us together is our trust in the future of Turkey, our desire to succeed together, our history, our religion, our common culture, and our brotherhood law over the past thousand years. For two years we have lived peacefully in the shadow of peace and quiet. We began to see the benefits and blessings of peace. Fortunately, the provocations have not been able to turn us off our path, and they will not. In this determination, without any political concern, we will drink, even if it is poison. I thank you, all of you, to our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay, and to all who have done so.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit04spe0165par0390	Dear Stone, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote to vote on Article 4 of the bill: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment of 629 rows. We propose that the vote of the clause be held in the form of an open vote. Now, I'm going to identify the signature holders: Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Faruk Bal, Iconya? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I read the clear vote of Article 4 of the Law Bill 629: ▪ Number of votes used: 247 [[x]] Thus, the fourth article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0165par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. The commission is here. The government is here. The 4th article was accepted, and now I'm reading the 5th article: Article 5- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it is in effect. Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0166par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to explain my views on the end of terrorism (1/629) which is being discussed and the Enhancing of Social Integration. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Dear friends, the end of terrorism, one of Turkey's most important problems, and the peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem, is a common demand for all of us. Over the years of terror in our country, over 40,000 of our people have been spent fighting terrorism, costing thousands of deaths, thousands of martyrs, thousands of gasses. Mothers have welcomed their children, their children, whom they had feared, and the children whom they had condemned for sending to the army, in a martyrdom, but in a coffin for many years. The account of the fire burned to thousands of stoves, the mothers who killed their children, rocked his heart so that other mothers wouldn't get shot at, supported the cries of peace. The terror problem has corrupted the peace of our country, wiped out our peace, our resilience, created the biggest obstacle to the development of our democracy. That's why we're looking forward to a solution that all our citizens can accept. Peace is the solution, but what kind of solution? A solution that the whole community has agreed on. We have to do this. We have concerns. You can't get rid of it if you use it to give someone an advantage by making political material. Dear lawmakers, the government, in its practice and methods so far followed, gives the impression that it has a political goal to achieve its own political gain with this enormous problem. Such an abstract, hollow framework framework bill is the government's bill, which has not yet allowed such an important subject to be discussed on the floor of Parliament, to coincide with the days when the Prime Minister announced his presidential candidacy. To end Turkey's most important problem of terrorism, equality, freedom, must be targeted and acknowledged as indispensable to the concept of human rights and the rule of law. The government does not reassure us with its practices in these matters. Yes, there are no martyrs from our southeast region, but in Istanbul, İzmir, Eskişehir, Hatay, and many of our cities, as the Prime Minister calls them, the young men killed by police are the people of this land. You've designed the police, you've designed the judiciary, you've designed the tenders, you've designed the infrastructure of the hauls, you've designed the students' exams, you've designed the schools, you've designed our education system, you're setting new laws to prevent court decisions from being implemented. Where's the law, where's the human rights, where's the equality? How sincere are the proposals of a government that can't internalise democracy where there's no law, no human rights, no equality, no freedom? We have the right to question this insincereness. How convincing is it that a Prime Minister, who says, "I am keeping 50 percent of the people in his home, who have made a political means of polarizing society, a means of profit for himself." Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I've done it, and it will be as I say it will be, when I say it will be, and so far, this problem has only been delayed. The AKP has been in power for 12 years and has reached numbers that will change the Constitution. You had a majority who could pass the law at any time he wanted. Why didn't you move the terror problem to the floor of the House despite all our calls? Why didn't you move the common mind? Why did you backslide our proposals? Now that your process of testing and error has been blocked, the presidential election has arrived. For show, you have come to us with a bill called the abstract framework, as Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay said. His timing makes sense. I know you object to the word, but it does make sense. Even if you bring you here with significant timing and political gain, we're going to force you to solve this problem on the floor of Parliament, and as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're going to solve this with a huge consensus, and we're not going to give anyone a chance to use it as a means of profit. We, the Republican People's Party, will continue to maintain our persistent position in order to discuss the issue in a transparent manner under the roof of Parliament and reach a solution. You see, this problem can't be solved behind closed doors, it can't be solved, it can't be solved, it can't be solved, it can't be solved, it can't be solved, it can't be solved. I wish you'd figured that out sooner. Let us resolve the matter under the roof of the Parliament, if you hadn't kept our proposal under water for two years, if you hadn't kept it under water. Well, it's finally come to mind that there's a floor like the Capitol floor, and that's a win. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's now come to the bill, which is called segregation and framing. It's really an empty bill. Article 1 of the bill organises procedures and foundations for the solution process to end terrorism and strengthen social integration. So they've been in power for 12 years, mostly, and they've drained people's ears every day for solutions, but they haven't even set up a method for the solution process yet. Article 2 of the bill states that the government conducts the necessary work on the following issues as part of the solution process. The steps that can be taken to end terrorism and strengthen social integration in the areas of political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological, culture, human rights, security and disarmament, like: ίb) Taking the necessary measures to ensure the return of gun-laden members to their homes and social participation and harmony. ) This allows the public to be informed on the right time and time of the measures taken under the Law. D) Follows the application results on the measures taken, and co-ordinates between relevant institutions and organisations. e) The required legislation does its work. Dear friends, aren't these the duties of the government, anyway? What does redefining, describing, and repeating the government's mission have to do with a law? The three-parter of the bill, the Council of Ministers, says it is authorized to make the necessary decisions regarding the solution process. Isn't the Council of Ministers the government's decision-making and implementation institution? Is the government an institution that cannot be decided? The government's decisions are already being made by the government. What's the point of setting this up as a law clause? But what do you intend to do with it, what decisions are you going to make? Let everyone know what's behind it, what's behind it, the decisions you make in the summer. Article 4 of the bill's (1) is part of the Law The tasks are carried out immediately by concerned public institutions and organisations. Dear lawmakers, isn't it the duty of concerned public institutions to carry out the duties of the government under the law? Isn't public institutions and institutions fulfilling the decisions made? You're bringing us a bill of law on them? Again, in another joke of Article (4): "The legal, administrative or criminal responsibility of those who perform these duties under the Law does not arise. " Are some officials who will commit crimes in the future wanted to be guaranteed and encouraged? What crimes do you predict they can commit? Dear friends, even if this bill is empty, we are willing to contribute to the penal, administrative and legal irresponsibility of Article 4 of the Article (2) of Article 4 of the article, to remain a permanent record: We are prepared to help the relatives, veterans, thousands of soldiers in the region, to consider the rights, demands, and feelings of the Parliament, to address a solution to the problem on the floor of Parliament. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0167par0035	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Ali Longırmak will speak, Aydın MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0168par0038	Mr. President, thank you very much. I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the draft of the Law on Ending Terror and Enhancing Social Integration and the Home Affairs Commission Report, and with my deepest respect to all of you. Dear lawmakers, the name of the law, the wish and the wish is very true, but it is necessary to discuss whether wish and wish will fulfill the goals. Dear lawmakers, this law itself is a confession of crimes committed and crimes committed; a confession of crimes committed so far, and of crimes committed after this day, but I would like to share this immediately with the honorable lawmakers that no law, constitutional crime, cannot be taken under armor. The crimes against which this law is enforced will be constitutional crimes and will not be subject to constitutional crimes, laws, armor. Under this law, any member of the government, bureaucrats, anyone involved in the application will be tried in the future for constitutional crimes. In fact, lawmakers, who have been in charge of this law, who have been in charge of it, who have been in charge of the government, will also have been involved in this constitutional crime. No one will escape this, precious MPs. The division of a country, as a state policy, can never be carried out by implementing the institutions of the state, constitutional institutions. This is a constitutional offense. Dear lawmakers, we need to extract experiences from history, from the past and from the present. The end of terror is always wanted by everyone and demanded by everyone. I believe and I know that everyone in the AKP will want terrorism to end, everyone in the Republican People's Party will want terrorism to end, everyone in the BDP, the HDP will want terrorism to end. On top of all that, the National Party of Action will want terror to end more sincerely than any of them. No one wants terrorism to end, nor can they defend the end of terror, my dear brothers, but by reading verbal verses from the Qur'an, by doing so according to the Gospel. If you are reading from the Qur'an, your action will be in harmony with that scripture, according to what you say. Now let's discuss the matter clearly and rightly. Dear MPs, let it be resolved at all costs. Is it a solution that everyone will agree on? So let the Republic of Turkey leave the state, federative, confederative or autonomous structure... For whatever reason, let the Republican People's Party be resolved. Does the Republican People's Party, claiming to be the founding party, claiming to have built the philosophy of the state, say yes to a federative, confederative and autonomous structure?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0169par0044	When did he say that?
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0168par0045	If he didn't say so, then that's the result of the law, valuable MPs. If a country has a step towards peace, why would someone drink hemlock venom, Mr. Prime Minister? I mean, what is this hemlock poison, why is this hemlock poison being ingested, for what reason, what is the discharge of this hemlock venom? It is the right of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to know that, dear MPs. So, what does the PKK demand? Dear MPs, the PKK says: "I will manage a region of the country, and we will rule Turkey together." This is a state of unconditionalness here. Remove the sentence from here. If this bill is called "yes" to PKK's demands, what is your definition of nation integrity, people? First, philosophically internalize it. Mr. Minister, who is talking about the paradigm change, what is the integrity of the nation, what is the one flag, the one nation, the only country? And when you say, what is this one nation, what is this nation's description? Dear lawmakers, we learn from the past. We've never separated anyone from their mother's language and their freedom of expression, individual rights, from human rights in certain matters, but I'm a partner in this state and partner in this ethnic group because I'm a member of the group and so on, because I'm a member of the order and so on. In the 2012 budget, the establishment of some collective rights, the future of the former Czechoslovakia, the future of the former Yugoslavia, the future of today's Iraq, the future of today's Syria, is in Turkey. That happy period, thought to be the way that Czechoslovakia lived, was thought to be the case with Yugoslavia, and you can live temporarily in Turkey, but after 50 years, today, the psychological action you're conducting at the point of satisfying a terrorist organization that still claims to be carrying a weapon within the country's borders, without leaving the gun in its hand, is a psychological action that will lead to the destruction of this nation. The code for psychological action and opening carried out by the state of Turkey is this: the PKK will be satisfied. The Turks will be persuaded to satisfy the PKK's conditions. That's the code for opening. If we go this far in media, media, various debate environments today, we'll have a Turkish problem. If it's tried, that's the sign of what I'm saying. Aman ha, let's satisfy the PKK so there won't be a Turkish problem on the other side so they can be convinced. Of course, our martyr mothers, our martyrs, our funerals... whoever has the citizenship of this country is pointing a gun at its government, and if it rebeles, we have to wonder how we lost a citizen. Of course, what we need to think about is that we shouldn't lose and we need to take precautions. Dear lawmakers, the Government must convince the Turkish Parliament on what conditions, how, what the armed militants have been persuaded to do with their deaths. Turkey must not hand over its powers to the government. He shouldn't commit constitutional crimes. They shouldn't commit constitutional crimes either. It says in the matter of the law, it says, "Here's the information of the public. I'm asking the Minister and the members of the government, and I'm asking you, lawmakers, if the Oslo talks hadn't exploded in an interesting way, did you know? So, what did the reporters stop by? So, what's the state's attorney doing today trying to run the law on Oslo talks? Can you track any of this? What will a government that has done this inform? He'll continue with the brainwashing method again. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are some very important things in this matter. In the event of necessity, people abroad and abroad decide to make contact with institutions and institutions, dialogues, talks, and so on. I'm asking Mr. Minister, I'm asking the government, and I'm warning the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Will there be international observers in tomorrows until they reach other areas without leaving weapons? Will there be referee states in the talks tomorrow? If these exist, if this government is doing this with the power vested in by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is committing a major crime. The conqueror speaks of his soul, Prime Minister. That is reading from the Qur'an and worshipping with the Gospel. Speaking of the spirit of the conqueror, Mr. Prime Minister, the Musul consulate has been raided, the Turkish lands are occupied. If it was the right decision not to evacuate the Mosul consulate, why was the Basra consulate evacuated? If the evacuation of the Basra consulate is correct, why are Turkish consulate officials and citizens in the hands of ISIS? All of this is a sign of how reckless, unresponsible, from the foreign policy of Turkey to its internal security.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0170par0056	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0168par0057	The last word: let no one forget that what we do here is beyond the oath of the MP, and by God, those who commit this constitutional crime will be judged in the days to come. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0170par0060	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0171par0064	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 5 of the bill. I salute you all. We've been talking about this bill for the past two days that concerns the future of Turkey. Naturally, everyone is expressing their own views, expressing their shortcomings, failures here, expressing their efforts to make this law really effective in the construction of lasting peace in Turkey. Some of our friends are completely against that law. The most fundamental flaw in this bill is women, dear friends. Women are the greatest victims of war. Women make up 50 percent of this society, and women suffer the greatest casualty of war. Women not only lose their children, or, as expressed on this stand, women are not only victims of their children joining the guerrilla, but women are also victims of becoming poorer because of this war. Where there is war and conflict, men are also provoked, dear friends. Thus, the end of this conflict, the end of the war, is an important point for women. The end of war, the building of peace, is an essential issue for women. However, at least women were spoken on this bench. Other than Peoples' Democratic Party MPs, almost no one mentioned women; the ruling party is neither the main opposition party nor the others. It's women who need to be talked about. If we're going to build a new life, if we're going to build a democratic Turkey, if we're going to make a lasting peace from this war, if we're really going to get rid of the conflict, if we're going to build a new life. Our MP, Ayla Hanım, has also expressed, has been seen in world examples, although the most victims of war are women, they have not been involved in the negotiations process, which is a serious flaw. Now, there are some commissions in this bill, but there's no mention of a women's commission. The establishment of this women's commission, not just the women's commission, but the establishment of commissions of truth, justice and confrontation, is required to include women. All commissions require quotas for women. Women must be included in all commissions to be set up, otherwise this law will always be incomplete, dear friends. Dear friends, another missing chapter: ecologically, this law does not give what is required. Of course it's a framework law. We don't expect everything from this law. In fact, this law doesn't really mean much. What's really important is that what the government says is that we're just saying... now, because the government says it's going to happen, we don't know if it's going to happen or not, but it's going to be the law we're waiting for. It's the law, the framework law. With this law, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, Parliament has passed a framework law on the solution of the Kurdish problem -- for the first time -- to the solution of the Kurdish problem -- which is effective in Turkey's 30-year, even two centuries-old Middle East policy. No interviews so far? Okay. Is this just during the AKP administration? The AKP government has always been only in our time. We did it. He says. It's not like that. There were negotiations in the time of Turgut Ozal, but there was no legal framework. Dear friends, there's always been talks, dialogue, but the problem remains unresolved. And the reason it's unresolved is because of the approach. They're all interested in the result. I mean, how can we live together? How can we establish an equal, free law with the people of Turkey? It has failed because the problem -- as expressed here -- is viewed as a terror problem and is addressed at a point, such as eliminating the PKK. Now we need a fresh start with a new perspective. The question is, can we solve this problem with an approach that will eliminate the causes of the problem? Then we need to determine the reasons for the problem correctly. A research commission has been established again in this Parliament for the resolution of this problem; only the ruling party and then the Peace and Democracy Party have made it a member. So we listened to a lot of NGOs, we listened to people from a lot of public institutions, and in fact, the war process was very important to determine why there was a war, but since there was a research commission, there weren't a lot of results. So, for the first time, maybe we've come to a point where we've come to this point where we've actually discussed why. So, now, if these reasons are obvious, we're going to have to go through this process together with an approach that will eliminate those reasons. So why isn't this law coming out, and why is it missing? Why isn't the definition true in this law? Why isn't a proper law defined? What about the framework of this law? How far does it go? It's important that there's a bill of law here that will respond to things that may be vague in people's minds, that are question marks, and that the process will move forward healthier, valued lawmakers. Look, not only do the Kurds expect this bill, but the Turks most of all. You're on the street, we're on the street, we're in public every day, people ask us every day: "When will there be peace, when will we really get rid of this war, when we send our children into the army? Are there millions of people who don't want to ask the question? So it's not a question of the Kurds, it's a matter of the Turks, it's a matter of the people of Turkey. Everyone's talking about division now, dear friends. There's already a division of thought. The question is, how do we eliminate this division, how do we live together, how do we create a new life together? No division? The Kurdish language is forbidden, the culture is forbidden, the identity is forbidden, they cannot use their native language. Only Kurds in this country? The Circumstrians face the same problem, and the Lazlar face the same problem. In this country, in fact, these nationalist approaches by the nation's state have already divided the peoples of Turkey, there is no integrity. Now, the question is, can we create a new merger, a new law? Now, there have been many mentions of the Constitution on this bench. Dear friends, we speak clearly: this Constitution must be changed. Didn't we object, the Constitution of September 12th is the constitution of coup, the soldiers made this Constitution, so we must democratize it? The government didn't promise you that? Isn't there a table set up on a democratic constitution? But this table fell over. Who knocked it over? Again, it's actually a non-intentional ruling party. Therefore, it is not acceptable to try to block the solution process based on the Constitution of September 12th. That's why this Constitution has to change. So one of the things to do next is a democratic, civil constitution. Turkey must have a constitution that is suitable for the 21st century, equitable, based on the rule of law, based on universal principles. Dear friends, look, maybe we've said it a few times on this bench, and once again, we're stressing that the existing Constitution is a male constitution because women don't have rights, women don't have rights. This existing Constitution is also a Sunni constitution, designed only by the Hanefi sect, which ignores other beliefs -- not only the Alevis, but also the other beliefs -- which ignores other beliefs. This Constitution is also a Turkish constitution because it is a constitution that ignores all the peoples in Turkey and is a militant constitution, made by soldiers, based on military logic, dear friends. Look, I'm gonna finish it like I said I would. I said women were the biggest victims during the war. In fact, you'll see better how enemy law works. Here you say the region, we call Kurdistan, we call it Kurdish geography, anyway... look, the most women's body is considered a battlefield in times of war. Women's harassment, rape, is used as a means of war. N. C. You remember his case, N. C. Criminals were not tried in his case. There are dozens of cases involving public officials that can be expressed. Yesterday in Diyarbakır, there was talk of sexual abuse against three sisters. Local sources immediately rejected him, and the Ministry issued a statement against him, saying: "These have been protected." That means that there are actually three police officers who are sexually abusing three sisters, even this is a reflection of enemy law, hostile sight, of approaching the people of the region. We can show you dozens of examples. Go, during the time of war... indeed, when this commission of truth and justice is established, these facts will be revealed. So we also have to look at these laws from this perspective as we talk about them. As long as you don't give up on this enemy law, as long as you don't give up on your own citizens as enemies because they belong to another identity, because they belong to another faith, there will be no real peace, no real democracy, no real freedom. Because the people you object to, the people you ignore, they will always object, they will rebel, they will say, "I exist." No matter what happens, he will continue to fight for his language, for his faith, for his culture. So, even though we're missing this bill today, we care that it's being discussed, but that means we're actually at zero point. The important thing is, from now on, this is what we do after the beginning. The people of Turkey need peace, brotherhood, equality, dear friends. And its duty and responsibility is to work hard to make it happen, to work hard. No one has any interest in war. Peace is what it should be for all of us, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0172par0080	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Salih Firat will speak, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0173par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, today is a historic day. Since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, we are about to legislate a historic bill. Hopefully, it will be a blessing for our country and for the peace of mind. In order to solve a problem, friends, first you have to diagnose, define, and diagnose the problem. There is a problem in Turkey that has existed for over a hundred years. We're discussing this law. Still, we haven't been able to put the name of this problem clearly until now; from time to time the problem of the southeast, from time to time the problem of the east, from time to time the problem of being left behind, from time to time, from time to time... Finally, we can call it the Kurdish problem. The Kurdish issue, or even the Kurdish problem, was dangerous and risky until this period. That's why we need to investigate why this problem hasn't been solved in a hundred years, why it hasn't been solved, and why it's stayed until today. We've seen it done so far. After the republic was established, after the Ottoman destruction, after the republic was established, a nation of states were tried to establish a single type, denialist, protestor and assimilationist principle in Turkey. People who broke that principle have occasionally rebelled. After decades of rebellion, hundreds of thousands of our people have died, but this problem has not been solved. As a matter of fact, in a conflicted environment over the past 30 years, we have lost nearly 40,000 lives, but this problem has not been solved, and it continues. We kept saying there were 3,000, 5,000 armed members in the mountain. 40,000 people were killed, but there are still these people. So there's a source here, there's a way here. Then we need to solve this problem so we can drain that source. When the EC PARTY government came to the government, they were diagnosed with problems and tried to find a cure.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0174par0087	Since when did you become an AK PARTY? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0173par0088	After the EC PARTY administrations, the Kurdish issue became the Prime Minister's issue, became the government's issue, became a matter of all of us, and was resorted to ways to resolve it. What happened in those 12 years? Turkey has had a very important democratic transformation and normalisation process in the past 12 years. In order to meet the expectations of all different parts of society, we have taken steps that we can describe as a quiet revolution. The National Union and Brotherhood Project, which launched in 2009 to end the conflict environment, and in 2012, the resolution process was launched, and we see that the word and the idea came into play, an unarmed and non-violent perspective. In the process, the efforts of the council of intelligent people are admirable. Following that, the government's basic rights and freedom packages have had significant reflections in the region for normalisation. Weapons have been silent for nearly 19 months in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions. The effective co-ordination of NGOs and state institutions has made significant arrangements. Surely these steps to bring the process to a solution will increase Turkey's acceleration of development and help it develop a faster economic development. Here is the bill that we are now discussing, which aims to strengthen social integration and to establish a strong legal basis for the solution process. With this bill, there will be a new elevator effect on the solution process, and all of the shareholders will be assured of our state's garantism and security because of all the verbs and actions related to the process of solutions. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, just 12 years ago, the solution to the Kurdish problem was only taken with a security axis. Since the proposed solutions are far from public beliefs and values, these suggestions have deepened the problem rather than solving it. We know that even though someone is uncomfortable with the peaceful atmosphere in Turkey, the only way to stop the blood flowing in the region is in the process of resolving the region's people's peace and prosperity. This has become a matter of public opinion. We must all put our hands on the ground for the unity and the integrity of the country, to use and evaluate this process very well. Let us not forget that those who fear to speak for the solution process will share both the conflict and the blood flowing. All the problems Turkey has experienced today are directly and indirectly related to the solution process in some way. We keep calling it democratization, we stay away from democracy. We call it anti-terrorism laws, we call it state-of-the-art courts, we call it state-of-the-art security courts. So, what was the result of all this? All this was the result of the Kurdish problem, all these legal changes were made because of the Kurdish problem. We see that a number of wills have buried their heads in the sand over the years in terms of the Kurdish problem. I must point out that the travel process, December 17, 25th, and in the continuation of this, is also intended to have some sort of effect on blocking the solution process. Under the leadership of our Prime Minister, our government has shown great courage, sincerity and zeal to resolve the conflicting environment of the Kurdish problem. The problem has been approached within the framework of democratisation and human rights by the end of years of policies based on denial and destruction, allowing the blood of brothers flowing for years to stop. We witness significant transformations in the development of fundamental rights and freedoms, recognition of different sects, beliefs and ethnic elements, freedom to belong to political parties, education in different languages and dialects, the removal of Andizuzım, the recognition of the name of the village, and the establishment of peace and peace of society. Of course, the oppressive, ceberut and guardians will be disturbed by the process. However, the normalisation process will continue in the new Turkey, despite all these parts. Mr. President, before our government, we were a country where all changes were tried to be adopted from the top down, from the center to the environment, and punished by those who opposed it. Today, we all see that all changes are a country based on the will of the people, from the environment to the center, from the bottom to the top. All of this is a reflection of a political movement that is acting on its motto, so that the state can live. We have to remember that differences don't make us different, but they only make us rich. I drink hemlock poison if necessary, the architect of peace, peace, brotherhood, and the architect of the brotherhood. Our Prime Minister, who has set his body and soul on fire for the future of his people, has demonstrated his determination in this matter. We have full faith that the new Turkey, where guns have been silenced and bans have been banned, will successfully conclude the solution process. We also need to read the recent local elections very well. March 30th elections were sort of a public vote. Our success in these elections also shows that our people have given us full authority in the process of resolving and combating parallel structures that have infiltrated the government. We, the government, will listen to the people's request, continue to make the necessary changes and transformations in accordance with the wishes and demands of the people. Finally, I would like to say that behind the solution process was the prayer of our weeping mothers, except for the political components. It is the duty of all of us, especially our government, to ease these tears and cries of our mothers as soon as possible. Again, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit05spe0175par0102	Thank you, Mr. Firat. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-09sit06spe0175par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 114th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with Kars MP Yunus Kılıç and Amassian MP Avni Erdemir and 79 MPs; the establishment of the chairmanship of the National Health Institutes of Turkey; and with some Law and Laws Governments' Proposal and Health, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday, July 10, 2014, the decision to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order to discuss the draft and proposals of the law is at 14 p.m., according to the decision made on Thursday (July 10, 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Good luck and good night.
