tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Afyonkarahisar MP Kemalettin Yilmaz (Afyonkarahisar) who asked for a comment on Afyonkarahisar's problems and proposals for solutions. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the current issues of the province of Afyonkarahisar. I salute your high council. The vast majority of our people living in Afyonkarahisar are provided for by agriculture and agriculture-based industry. Our province, which has recently been affected by the problems and negativity of the agricultural sector, is still among the still migratory provinces. In 2002, Afyonkarahisar ranked 58th among the living provinces according to the economic, social, cultural and environmental criteria, electing six of the seven MPs from the seven MPs from the AKP (AKP) in 2007, while the number of lawmakers fell from 7 to 5. Despite his support for power, Afyonkarahisar has not received the service he deserves. There are still 1,270 of the 8,500 teachers' norm staff available. We're still short about 1,300. In 2002, when the government adopted the term "Dinar," the Arklı, Tea, Bolvadin, Emirdağ district state hospitals had the staff and infrastructure to report to the state hospitals, it was unfortunately reduced to a health clinic today. Because its population fell below 2,000, 49 municipalities were transformed into villages, and our people were forced to leave the land where they were born. I'm afraid the 5084 app was not well directed. Investors, contented with the service sector, focused on production and employment, did not prefer Opium. So many of our people have, unfortunately, been victims. The closing workplaces are increasing day by day, adding new ones to the unemployed army every day. I've said so many times from this bench, and I've asked the minister for a written statement, but he hasn't been very interested. I'm going to say it over and over again, and I'm going to follow it until it's done. The traffic load volume of the road to the intersection of Emirdağ, Bolvadin, Tea, Vavaova and Dinar Porsuma is increasing every day, causing loss of goods and lives. This road must be transformed into a double road immediately. Again, a double route of the Afyon-Suhut road, which connects our city to Isparta and Antalya, will also facilitate the transport of our district, and will also create economic activity in this region. The closed State Supplies Office Regional Directorate buildings and residences remain the home of the eveningers, addicts in the middle of the city. For seven months, unfortunately, the foundation of the museum has not been nailed to the ground. We're curious about the outcome of the construction, like all the Afyonians. Especially the Olympic swimming pool that looks like a freak in the tourist zone. The abandoned state hospital and the Kocatepe State Hospital buildings are also covered by lack of care and disintegration. These buildings, which have been healing the opium people for years, have become the favorite places of thinners, gluers, drug addicts. Unfortunately, at the place of the tea SECA factory, where there was a total privatisation scandal, there was nothing left but three or five abandoned buildings, even scrap irons. Before privatisation, 800 active employees, raw materials suppliers, at least 1,500-2 with a mover. The Tea Seka factory, which is a business for a thousand families, is an indication of what you understand about privatisation, so in two words, the SECA is being pursued. I hope you don't get away with it, you'll pay for it. The only alkaloid factory in our Bolvadin district and our country's only alkaloid plant must be equipped with modern technologies immediately and wasteful alkaloids should also be presented to the service of humanity and the pharmaceutical industry. Instead of selling raw alkaloids abroad, local pharmaceutical industry should be valued. Again, during your reign, you cut the lifebloods of many of our counties. Bayat, Basmakçı, İhsecond, Shepherds, Sultandabağı, Hodjas, you have closed many official institutions, courthouses and military branches in our district. You've prevented the service from being taken, and you've shut down these institutions and ended the borough's viability. Until recently, imported meat was allowed, Afyonkarahisar provided 18 per cent of Istanbul's meat. Now, almost, the livestock people give SOS, the beet producers give SOS. How can they not give SOS; in 2002, when you accept a mile of diesel, he has to deliver 10 kilograms of beets to buy 10 kilograms of beet, but today he has to deliver 45 kilograms of beets to buy 1 litre of diesel. Dear lawmakers, this is all I've said about the problems of Afyon in these five minutes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mughla MP Tolga Çaldar. Here you go, Mr. Chandar.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0004par0032	Thank you very much. Mr. President, when you say muğla, we all think of vacations. Although, this year we don't have so many snowy icy days in Ankara, we have so many summer days in Ankara, but even though we're still in Ankara, even in such beautiful weathers, in the end, we think of the sun, the sea, the holiday. However, I will tell you today about the face of Mudla, which is outside of this visible face. Our Lambla, a complete cradle of civilization with both scientists and artists, and the heritage of history, has unfortunately failed to see the need for attention from central governments so far. The people of Laudlah are the ones who created this quality of Mughlah. The muglads are always very old-fashioned people, who have favoured democracy and the understanding of modern civilization. At the same time, our Lambla is a very important province in terms of their natural wealth. With its 1,124km coves, it also has an appetite for everyone who holds power today because when you say put it, some people understand the sea as a holiday, some people understand the natural beauty, but some people think, "How do I make an economic profit out of it?" Dear lawmakers, the coves we went to sea in our childhood, unfortunately, are now occupied by businesses that no longer allow locals to enter the sea. Three thermal plants in the region, founded on public taxes, are wanted to be sold by today's government. The workers, despite all the unsanitary and unsanitary work of the locals, were willing to have cancer from the smoke of these thermal power plants, for example, in beden and Milas, because they needed economic benefits from it. It is also the income gate of the state. They have not opposed the construction of thermal power plants because they say it is the property of the state. But the thermal power plants that we've been working on for years, which are the property of the state, we want to be sold today, despite the fact that there are profitable businesses. I'd like to add one thing right away about thermal power plants, lawmakers: the 27-28-day profit-consuming enterprises that cost two days of 30 days. For God's sake, we still don't understand what mindset, what conscience, what profiting, why he wants to sell businesses that are owned by the people. The thermal power plant workers and the people of Mughla, Milas, the people of Yathen, have been fighting and struggling for months, but they can't make a sound. At the same time, see, our cultural heritage, another feature of our Mughla, is extremely important. In recent days, the memorial tomb of Hekatomnos the Karia satrab, who raised up the entire world's archeology community, has been found in Milas. Our former Minister of Culture had given us a great deal of attention in the past, Mr. Minister, but our current Minister has never once made an attempt on this subject, and unfortunately the work is failing. In recent years, especially these last days, hospital problems, regional hospitals... look, we don't have a regional hospital in our area over a million summer populations, we don't have the necessary equipment. Hopefully, when you're on vacation -- we've all crossed a certain border by age -- you won't have a heart attack, and you won't have any trouble because of this lack of equipment in the hospital. It's for no one... but it's -- please -- even though we've been interviewing the Minister of Health over and over again, there's been no shortage of doctors and equipment. Dear, dear lawmakers, look, natural gas is going from Aydıl to Mugla. It doesn't go to Bodrum. It doesn't go to Milas. The first organised industrial area, however, is built in Milas. Nearly 70 factories have been sold that we need the most. To the natural gas, Bodrum and Milas will need it. That's all I'm summing up as time goes by, and I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu will respond to the extracurricular speech. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In particular, I have been promised to answer Mr Kemalettin Yilmaz Bey's non-responsibility speech and at the same time the non-responsive speech of Mr. Tolga Bey. I'll start with Afyonkarahisar. Afyonkarahisar has actually made great investments in the last 11 years. Our deputy knows, but I'm just going to sum it up. So far we've invested $8.6 billion in Afyonkarahisar, especially in the last ten years -- except for this year's numbers -- 8 quadrillion 600 million dollars. Of course, first place in Afyonkarahisar is in our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications; they have invested 2 billion 100 million TL. We're in second place, and our investment is $1 billion, $21 million. I mean, really, Congressman, we've signed huge investments and services in Afyonkarahisar. You mentioned the population of Afyonkarahisar. In fact, the population of Afyonkarahisar (Afyonkarahisar), the population of some counties and towns, is really overrated, so as you know, there is not much migration in Afyonkarahisar. He's already in first place to run for the capital of Afyonkarahisar with a population of 705,000. Hopefully, we'll increase our population because there's a tremendous improvement in Afyonkarahisar. By working together, by working hard, by providing jobs, by means of employment, we will increase Afyonkarahisar. I, of course, thank you for the judgment and advice of our deputy -- we'll do whatever it takes together -- we're extremely happy with the reviews, the recommendations, the proposals. Of course, look, we do all the dams and ponds to increase employment in Afyonkarahisar. So, a few dams have been built in the past, maybe a couple of ponds, but right now, look, we've got the Bolvadin Ozburun Dam and watering; the watering and watering of reeds in Dinar; the crazy watering, supplying, renovations in Emirdağdağ; the teachers' Chepni Dam, watering; the Ihsecond Döğer Emer Dam, watering; the Ishchehisar Karabore Dam and watering; the Rediören Dam, watering; the Skel Dam, watering in Sandiklı; the Sançıklı, the Sançanpaşa Dry Dam; the watering; the watering; the central dam, the central dam; the watering, and the watering of the watering of the dam; the watering of the dams; the dam; and the watering of the dams.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. Secretary, if it's time for the Malatya Yonca Dam.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0053	We'll do it, we'll do it, we'll base it.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0007par0054	And when, Mr. Secretary? I don't believe it yet.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0055	Yeah, just a minute, give me a break.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0007par0056	You've always done it to Opium. Look, it's always Afyon.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0057	Take your word for Malatya, and I'll answer to you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0007par0058	You've always done it to Opium.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0059	But he's complaining that it's been less done, Congressman. Now, hang on, we're building 71 ponds and watering on the Afyonkarahisar as part of 1,000 ponds per thousand days. We've completed 21 of them, we've launched 33 of them, they're still under construction, 17 of them are planning, projecting. I mean, we're not gonna leave any land unwatered. Now, coming up, we're going to sign major projects such as the Slowing Dam -- so, from the number of dams of Turkey, in construction, we haven't been able to lay the foundation -- the Tea Dam, the Shepherds, the Seyits watering and rehab, the Seleviran watering in the Ark, the rehabilitation. Since 2002, really, we have increased watering, and as dekar, we have raised that figure to 1,43,682. Hopefully, with the ongoing irrigation, we'll be in Afyonkarahisar, at the end of 2015, watering about 1,500,000 acres of land, which is really important. I'm talking about this very briefly. Of course, the drinking water... as you know, there was a major arsenic problem in Afyonkarahisar. At Afyonkarahisar, under the orders of our Prime Minister, we built the Straight Tree Mediterranean Dam and gave two Jesus lines and water from this dam to Afyonkarahisar. Other than that, not just Afyonkarahisar, but all the counties had arsenic problems. We've built a dehydration plant that's pretty much all over the county and all the cities. Bayat, Erkmen, Gebeces, Ihsecond, Ihcear, Karacaahmet, Kılıçarslan, Küçükhüçük, Salar, Sedı, Sulümenli, Shuhut, Yakasinek, Yaylat, or 15 of the districts, we have solved the problem of arsenic by further decontamination. Yeah, we're really doing epic river reforms. So far, we've reformed 109 creeks. For example, our esteemed proxy knows very well, there was a Kokarchay that passed through Afyonkarahisar, and we made it magnificent, and now it's almost like the sea. In fact, the dwellings around this stream were not worth 40 or 50,000 euros, but are now worth 10 times more, and we have really added a great deal to Afyonkarahisar. 28 creek corrections are under way. If I briefly talk about green, look, 14.2 percent of Afyonkarahisar is forested, while today we have increased this area by nearly 100 percent to 23 percent. Now, we've started producing our own saplings. ▪ We do very important work under the way schools should live. Furthermore, a new sector is emerging in Afyonkarahisar. You know, Afyonkarahisar isn't just the crossroads of roads, it's also the crossroads of climates. In this regard, Afyonkarahisar is particularly rich in medicine and Itri plants. So we set up a medical and itri, a smelly plant center for Afyonkarahisar. We didn't have a say in honey production, but right now, with eight honey forests, Afyonkarahisar is now at a very important point in the production of honey.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0008par0067	We want Samsun.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0068	Other than that, we're looking at protected areas, giving our forest villages a huge supply of ORC support. Also, all the garbage and wastewaters were emptied into the stream in Afyonkarahisar. I mean, for the first time, we've taken the entire Afyonkarahisar Akarchay basin. Look, until the Afyonkarahisar center and all the surrounding towns, even the villages, we've established a very modern, advanced biodegradable water treatment facility, and the Akarchay is no longer contaminated. In fact, now that we have another plan, God willing, we'll use it as irrigation water from here. There was no getting rid of the garbage; the garbage would be thrown there, there, there. Now, we've established Turkey's most modern floor waste disposal facility for garbage. Look, where's this? It's just, you know, from the Ark, there's a huge facility in Afyonkarahisar, which collects all the solid waste around Afyonkarahisar, and even generates electricity from the garbage, until we reach Shuhuta, Tea, even Bolvadin. I'd like to make that very clear. Other than that, of course, there's a lot to say, Congressman, but in health, Afyonkarahisar has come a long way. Thank you, you have contributed, especially to the fact that you have told us about the past shortcomings in health, and it has given us a lot of enthusiasm and excitement, and I thank you. For example, for the first time, the 400+200-bed research and education hospital has been opened; it's amazing... And if anyone needs physical therapy -- I'm announcing from here -- the most perfect physical treatment and rehabilitation hospital in Turkey since the GATA, even with thermal water, has been opened within the University of Kobytepe; a really great hospital with 200 beds. And we've opened hospitals to all the counties. Look, before, the contractor was re-indicted for bankruptcy. Thanks to our congressman, we went right at him. Mr. Deputy, the hospital in Tea has been completed, the hospital in Shuhut has been completed, and even the Rediay Hospital in Ihseconds, Bolvadin State Hospital and Sultandabü State Hospital, all of this has been completed. Thank you for your criticism, for your encouragement. We're gonna get new medical facilities, too. We're doing an obstetrics hospital. We will also open a 100-bed state hospital to Dinar. Now, you've talked about education. Now, you mentioned the medical staff. I just got the number from the Ministry of Health. The number of medical personnel in 2000 was 2,127 in Afyonkarahisar. Today, the number of medical staff -- we requested new staff at the end of last year -- 4,513. I mean, is it enough? There may be shortcomings. Together, we will identify them together, and we will strive together to complete them. Regarding the Ministry of National Education, as you know, there has been a huge increase in the number of teachers. I, again, have received from the Ministry of National Education at this time: there are 22 students per class and 29 at the highest, so there are under 29 students in all classes. We've come a really great distance, and the classroom has increased. Look, I bought it in 2002 just a little while ago -- there were 5,285 classrooms, 2013 -- last year -- and it went up to 6.515 at the end of the year.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0009par0075	Mr. Secretary, what number is Opium in training? Tell me that.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0076	So, finally, look, here the Department of Transport has written an epic, 490 kilometers of divided road. Victory Airport is now open. Thank God, Ankara-Afyonkarahisar-Izmir speed train...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0009par0077	It's opened to Kütahya, Mr. Minister, Kütahya Airport.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0078	Victory Airport, Victory! Regional airport.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0009par0079	They call it Kütahya Airport, for God's sake, Kütahya Airport.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0080	Okay, if it's Kütahya Airport, don't ride it, I call it Zafer Airport, we're all proud of Victory Airport. 600 million dollars invested by TOKI, police university of applied sciences finished. Hopefully, there's a thermal nursing home in the Ark. Several dwellings have been built, so far, 6.102 houses have been built by TOKI. Hopefully, the sports complex will be over, and the museum will be over soon. The Ministry of Agriculture has given US$760m in agricultural support, signing huge investments under the SCEADS and BELDES. However, let me also state that there are so many facilities here... that you will come to the Prime Minister's office at noon on Sunday when I leave the group. Right now, in Afyonkarahisar, exactly 127 large facilities are ready, waiting for your witness... in a separate area after the rally... because we don't mix formal openings and rallying.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0010par0085	Invite my deputy over.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0006par0086	Of course, I'll always invite our deputy, a dear friend of ours, who, of course, is invited. And in general, the total cost of these facilities to be opened... because our Prime Minister hasn't opened in a year and a half. I open small facilities -- less than 10 trillion -- but our Prime Minister will open large facilities. And I'll tell you the number of these: the general total is $1 billion,139 million,160 grand, which is 1.1 quadrillion. We invite you to join us. The rally, of course, will be a political rally, so our Prime Minister will hold these openings separately, where, of course, there will be a more formal opening. In short, let me tell you about our congressman. Congressman, so far we have invested 7.6 billion dollars and 7.6 quadrillion dollars in old money. My joy, however, is that we are second in line as Ministry of Opium, but the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs in Mugla is first in investments, and I'm very proud to say so. Now, we have $1.8 billion in numbers, so I can give you $1 billion.805,500 that the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs invested in our forest until the end of last year. Other health departments, national education, university investments, transportation... transportation is about $942 million. So, a total of $7 billion, $600 million, in other words, has been invested in 7 quadrillion 600 trillion in old money. Look, there were no dams in Mugla. For example, we served the Akgedik Dam, we served the Bayır Dam and watering it, and so there was the watering of the Abyss that watered 45,880 dear land, right near the border of Mugla-Antalia, where we watered it. I'd like to point out one thing, Mr. Mughla, to our Congressman. Sir, Dalaman had the Aköpru Dam in particular. If we... unfortunately, that dam was misprojected. There's these huge, chartic gaps, about eight inches in diameter. It wasn't possible to build a dam there, but we have demonstrated our experience, thank God, to finish this number of Dalaman Akköru Dams, and even to finish it by laying the foundation on the ground, but I'm proud of it, of the number of dams in the world. At the moment, Dalaman had a huge flood problem, where all the tourist facilities were devastated when Dalaman Tea overflowed, where we now produce electricity and we water the plain at the same time as a magnificent bladder. We've solved the water problem of the Basement Peninsula, and we're still watering. For example, we laid the foundation of the Deep Dam, 80 percent complete. Hopefully, he'll water the 21,510 Departure Dam's project is still under way. I'm also inviting our deputy, and when the project is over, we'll lay the groundwork. The bulls are building the Seki Dam at the site, and we are building the foundation. We'll supply the watering of Milas Plains, Congressman, Milas is important. We're supplying the watering of the Salimiye Plain. Indeed, Milas could be a very good farmer in Milas, under a thousand ponds in a thousand days. It's an important asset to agriculture. Because if it's irrigated, it's possible to harvest two or three times a year. In that sense, we speeded up this watering. As part of a thousand ponds per thousand days, we make 51 ponds and waterings. Look, 12 of these have been completed, and 26 of them are still under construction -- so it's never been seen in the history of Mugla -- and 13 of them have been planning, their projects are going on. Of course, there were extremities. We've reformed 24 creeks. Currently, the project is under construction at the same time as 18 of 89 extremities, and 71 of them are still under construction. We're going to rehabilitate as many streams as there are, and I want to emphasize that in a nutshell. Other than that, we're with the jungle villagers. Mudla is now ambitious in the production of honey. For the first time, we have built a forest of honey in Mugla, in Fethiye, which is that we have opened our forests to the muğla beekeepers, especially the honey forest, so I truly thank all the beekeepers and the Muğlaites. In fact, thanks to them, Turkey has now risen to the 6th ranking in honey production in the world, the 2nd place in the world. But we continue to fully support beekeepers for honey production, they're the crown of our heads. Because what we think is that let the people live so that the government can live. So now we give all of our villagers all the support, not the enemy of the forest community, but with a slogan in the form of kin. Other than that, really, Mugla is a great province. I'm perfectly happy to serve there, too. As for the weather, when we were Minister of Environment and Forest, we set up an automatic measurement station, especially for air pollution. That section is currently available online at the Ministry of Environmental Urbanism. Besides, tourism is very important in Mugla. We've set up 19 automated weather stations so they can see the weather, weather conditions from all over the world, and I want to stress that in particular. Why? We are proud of a province in Turkey, which is far too long -- too large -- to be even in the world. Thus, as the tourist from abroad arrives there, he looks at the weather, where he will go to the Internet, in Bodrum, in Marmaris, in Fethiye, wherever he will go. So, for the first time, we had the opportunity. In fact, for the first time in the seas, we built an automated marine meteorology measuring station so that yacht tourism could develop, so that there would be no problem, I would like to stress it specifically. The Ministry of Health has opened 22 health facilities, one of which is a public hospital -- which I will immediately collect -- the Ministry of National Education has opened 2,482 classrooms, and other than that, the Ministry of Transport is actually much easier to reach. The airline became a public road. Moreover, it is much easier to reach Mughlah now, in a 305km divided way. The Ministry of Agriculture has provided 799m euros in agricultural support until the end of last year. Of course, the work of the TOKI (TİKI), the work of CYDES and BELDES continues. I, of course, have the best of the best, as a result - especially, thank you very much for giving my representatives the opportunity to explain. It would be a great honor for us to do so if there are any missing ones. Whatever demands they have on that matter, if they deliver them to us, even if it's the work of other ministries, I promise you to follow them. Thank you all very much. I have my deputies here, especially on Sunday, I invite you to the official opening ceremony after the rally, in Afyonkarahisar. My sincere respects to all of you, sir, thank you very much. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0011par0104	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0012par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0011par0106	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0012par0107	Mr. President, aside from the questions I've asked, he's explained other matters without even mentioning them. I need to clarify these matters, sir, and he's given us some misleading information.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0011par0108	Mr. Yilmaz, you gave your speech, and the Minister told me what you had to do with it.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0012par0109	For using my name to express it...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0013par0110	But, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has spoken out of the question, otherwise he won't be able to speak.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0011par0111	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. I'll give you two minutes.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0014par0115	Thank you. Yeah, we've talked about a lot of things from here. Mr. Secretary responded to our five-minute conversation in exactly 20 minutes, but he never mentioned the farmers I asked him about, he never mentioned the feeder, he never mentioned the double-way pool that we needed, and the pool that looked like a freak of nature, and he never mentioned the public institutions and organizations that stood at a drop capacity, and he never mentioned the SECA. Of course, it is our duty to express in the name of our nation what is missing and what is wrong when we appreciate what is done well and what is done well. Of course, we're not saying nothing's been done, we're going to remind you of some things, of the missing ones. Mr. Secretary, our esteemed lawmakers, the cement factory run by old technology, which remains in the center of our city and causes serious air pollution, must be taken out of the city immediately. On the other hand, the concrete travers factory, which is staying in the city centre and has become a cumbersome structure that has broken the city's aesthetics, needs to be moved out of the city as soon as possible. We're waiting for the good news. You give new quarry licenses to many places in our province, destroying the environment and nature in ways that cannot be undone, irreparable, and disturbing people, bringing security forces and our people face-to-face from time to time. Of course, unemployment is the problem. We have 700,000 people in opium, 705,000 people. As of early 2013, 124,000 of our 700,000 populations have green cards. That means that one fifth of our people are out of social security, which means they're out of work. Of course, I'd like to ask the Minister one more time. I mean, how many bees' hives have been made, and how much honey has been produced, and I'm very curious, and I'd appreciate it if they could explain it. With all due respect, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0015par0122	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu, who wants to speak on behalf of the 6th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kosovo. Here you go, Mr. Sherbetchioğlu.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0016par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your high council and our beloved nation. As head of the Turkish-Kosovo Friendship Group, I send the warmest greetings and prayers of the Turkish nation from Ankara to Pristina, to Prizren, to Gilana, to Ipek, to Mitrovica, to Yakova, to Nobırda, to all my brothers and sisters from Kosovo, once again, to the Turkish nation's independence. Kosovo, which has traveled huge distances in less than six years, will continue its rapid rise in the coming days, I believe. Turkey-Kosovo relations are increasingly strengthened on the basis of common history and brotherhood. Turkey is the first country in 105 countries to recognise Kosovo's independence declared on 17 February 2008. Our country is deeply concerned about Kosovo's stability, territorial integrity, development, integration into European and Euro-Atlantic structures, as well as establishing friendly and constructive neighbourly relations in its region. Our relatives, around 19,000, take on an important bridge between the two countries. In recent years, contacts between businessmen, universities, municipalities, governorships and NGOs continue to grow. Our City of Bursa and Osmangazi Municipality are among our municipalities, which are active in the development of relations. I will not pass on the contributions of Kosovo's Skopje Association, BALKANSIAAD and RUMELISIAD, which operate in my electoral district, Burma. Many sectors, such as infrastructure, insurance and banking, have Turkish investments in Kosovo. Turkey's direct investment in Kosovo has exceeded 250m euros, and the development sector's total investment in the country is 800m euros. On 23 October 2013, Adem Yaşari Airport opened with the participation of our Prime Minister and became the only international airport in Kosovo. In the context of cultural relations, many works have been restored through TİKA, especially Sultan Murat Turbé, Fatih Mosque and Sinan Pasha Mosque, in order to preserve cultural heritage. The Dolphin Emre Cultural Centre is an active role in the development of cultural relations. In short, Turkey continues its support in every area indefinitely. Our wish is that friend and brother Kosovo (Kosovo) continue to develop in peace, stability, and peace. With such feelings and thoughts, as I end my words, I send greetings and greetings to our brothers of Kosovo, who live in Bursa, İstanbul, İzmir, and all over Turkey, and salute our beloved nation.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0017par0138	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On March 5, 2014, a meeting of the European Parliament's Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality will be held on March 5, 2014 in Brussels, Belgium's capital city, on the basis of the Commission for Women's Rights and Gender Equality. On the matter of accession to the meeting, the names of political party groups have reported to the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The Prime Minister's office has seven papers, I'll have them read and present to your knowledge: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice has been issued in writing and its attachments to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your President (b) in writing, which has been introduced about Siirt MP Gültan Kışanak. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel has been submitted in writing and its attachments to the Ministry of Justice (c) as to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your presidency with interest (b) in writing. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel has been submitted in writing and its attachments to the Ministry of Justice (c) as to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your presidency with interest (b) in writing. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice has been issued in writing and its attachments to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your President (b) in writing, which has been introduced about Siirt MP Gültan Kışanak. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The interest (c) from the Ministry of Justice in demanding the extradition of the document and the prosecution to review the investigation file sent to your President (b) written and published on Yalova MP Muharrem İnce has been submitted in writing and its attachments in connection. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel has been submitted in writing and its attachments to the Ministry of Justice (c) as to the request for the extradition of the document and the petition for a review of the investigation file sent to your presidency with interest (b) in writing. I'll give you what you need. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Diyarbakir MP Nursel Aydoğan has been referred to in writing (b) and related to the interest of the Ministry of Justice (c) of Justice (e.g. the request for the extradition of the document and the complaint sent to your presidency for a review of the investigation file sent to you by writing (b). I'll give you what you need. Of the members of the Constitutional and Justice Commission (3/469), 3/532), (3/594), (3/903), (3/916), (3/964) and (3/1067) were returned to government. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Science literature graduates are having a hard time getting into professional life. A significant part of those graduates of these schools, which are for the purpose of developing science, is unable to turn their education into a profession. In universities, the lack of academic staff, public institutions and institutions and limited employment opportunities in the private sector have led to the failure of faculty graduates to accept the rewards of their efforts during their education and to turn their education into a qualified product. In this context, I would like to request and request a parliamentary examination of the Constitution in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution 98, under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, in order to create jobs for science faculty graduates in exchange for education in public and private sectors, in order to ensure the opening of qualified and specialized areas based on their education. [[Hakkari]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Van]] 24) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] A very small percentage of graduates of science literature who aim to raise scientists have the chance to become academics. In this, universities do not show the necessary sensitivity to the issue, as well as the shortcomings in higher education legislation and practice. Apart from being an academic of graduate science literature (FEF) graduates, they are likely to become teachers in the Ministry of National Education by studying pedagogical formation. The possibility, however, has recently been an application that the NGO aims to lift, and has caused its reactions by disappointing tens of thousands of science faculty graduates. Resuming the subject on responses, the SEC has announced that it will not close its way of teaching students or graduates in science. However, even if it's not removed, there are about 400,000 candidates for teachers that the training unions have announced and the conditions for pedagogic formation are very difficult, while very few of the FEF graduates have the chance to become teachers. At the same time, the opportunities for FEF graduates to work in public institutions and institutions are very limited. There are two types of staff members in the Public Staff Selection Exam (KPSS) for those who have finished these universities to become public servants. One of them is the condition of becoming a FEF graduate, the other is the staff that is known as the 4001 staff in the staff and is required to be a four-year faculty graduate. Unfortunately, however, even the few members of the FEF graduates are reduced by more and more seeing themselves. The most obvious evidence for this is that 1 145, 000 FEF graduates who took the KPSS 2010 test were reduced in every assignment. At the January 2011 appointment, of the 4,300 license staff, the FEF and 4001 code totalled around 220 squads, In the June 2011 appointment, the 17100 licenses were assigned as FEF codes. If we wanted to use the 4001 code, we'd have about 500 casts, In November 2011, 36 squads were assigned as FEF codes from 3,800 licenses. If we wanted to use the 4001 code, we'd have about 700 casts. This clearly shows that even those who received high scores in 145 thousand FEF graduates who took the test were not appointed, and these people were victimised. On the other hand, scientific education in science literature schools has made it clear that students in these schools should be employed in more qualified and specialized areas. Because education in the science departments of these universities is equivalent to the education of many universities in engineering schools, and education in human sciences and languages plays a very important role in maintaining social and economic life and social pulses. Therefore, those who have finished these schools must first be provided with the condition of their work in public, professional institutions, and units, and to ensure that public institutions benefit from this scientific perspective. In universities, academics, teachers, public institutions and private sector employment conditions are limited, while FEF graduates are forced to work for paid teachers or classrooms so as not to be unemployed and have very low wages. In addition, a large number of FEF graduates who are unable to turn their education into a profession have to study or do other jobs besides those limited possibilities. This is a waste of time and money, both in an individual sense and in a whole country. For this reason, a parliamentary study of the scientific vision they gained from these graduates is of great importance in the country, in the long term, in universities and other public institutions and institutions and private sectors, to address the victims of science literature faculty graduates. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and determine the issues of Turkish Armed Forces officer, petty officer, police officer, expert police and experts and temporary village rangers and other rights and resources that should be taken, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental investigations under the pursuant to Articles 104/4/th and 105/th Articles of the Constitution. [[Inconceived]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] [[Ankara]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kayseri]] 9) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] 10) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Yozgat]] [[Scholarship]] In order to keep the morale and motivation of members of the Turkish Armed Forces at the highest level, various studies and regulations have been made so far on the subjective rights, educational opportunities and social rights, using the resources provided by our state. However, serious and cumulative problems of the poor and selfless members of this community, whose lives are at stake in the most remote dorms, are awaiting immediate solutions. The financial and social rights of Turkish Armed Forces officers, Petty Officers, Specialist gendarmes and experts and temporary village rangers have practices that are incompatible with their duties and responsibilities. A TSK officer, Petty Officer, Specialist Gendarme and Specialist Private Retirements are not available to pensioners from MIT and law enforcement without paying $100 per month. While carrying out military service -- under the Anti-Terror Law -- the children of those who have lost their lives -- are not allowed to be under arms unless all their brothers and sisters are willing and those under arms are being discharged at their request, while the officer, Petty Officer, Specialist gendarme, and the brothers of senior officers cannot benefit from this arrangement. Most of the petty officers are graduates of higher education, and starting in 2003, the primary source of NCO schools was accepted at the university. Those who graduated from the university of applied sciences from the first degree of the 9th degree are initiated. Petty officers can't ascend to level 4 of the 1st degree, even though they have graduated from higher education and higher education. Petty Officers are not eligible for severance and their salaries are significantly reduced when they retire. Expert gendarmes begin and retire with degrees and degrees, such as secondary school and equal school graduates, even though their vocational applications require high school and equal school diplomas. A year's military training before the arrival of an expert carabinieri is not considered a pension. Experts' contracts are extended until they are 45 years old, and they have problems retiring. Specialist gendarmes and specialists are able to receive higher education, but they are not able to get more than a degree in their collection. The wages paid to the temporary village rangers, who, along with security forces, serve as combators of terrorism under difficult circumstances, are not enough to provide for them. In order to determine the issues of the Turkish Armed Forces officer, petty officer, police officer, expert police and experts and temporary village rangers about their rights, their rights to education and other rights and resources and the measures they must be taken, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamental investigation under the requirements of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current structure of potato production in our country, production, consumption, the problems in front of the manufacturer, and we propose and propose the opening and opening of a Parliamental research based on the grounds of the 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Charter, in order to determine and support ways, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements. 1) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 10) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 11) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 12) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Bolu]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] 24) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] In Turkey, 4.5 million tonnes of potatoes are produced annually, although the potato manufacturer faces hunger; the manufacturer of the potato produced this year had to sell and store its product because its input costs were lower than the price of sale. However, in the process, the fresh potato was introduced and the old potato was never popular with it, and the air was heated and had to sprout in the warehouses and rot. Based on information from the agricultural chambers, 600,000 tons of potatoes remained in storage this year. The cost of the product is quite high because of the high inputs in the production of potatoes. Today, the seed weighs around 3,000 euros, so it can't buy seed and sow. The sack of fertilizer goes up to $100 in planting time. So the manufacturer can't sell the product for 50 cents and rot in the warehouses. The biggest problem is that the ministry has to test the soil with a new sentence. Before October, they go to county and county headquarters and take a day to test it. Then they come in and take a sample of the soil and send it to the lab for a scan of the rezid. The real problem here is that a test costs $150. I mean, it's a one-digit test. So if the manufacturer is going to plant 30 acres of potatoes, he's going to have to pay $4,500 worth of test money. If you don't get tested and you don't have a test certificate, even if your potato is ready to be removed, it's being continued and destroyed by the government. So, the farmer is completely bankrupted by the government. If such a statement is to be made and necessary, it should be granted a period of adjustment and tolerance. It'll destroy the manufacturer by publishing it and putting it into action immediately. The ministry must prepare a new summary for the removal or postponement of this sentence for at least this year, or the manufacturer cannot pay it and will go bankrupt. Next year, if he's willing to take these conditions and make bread again, he'll sow. The other thing is that the farm you plant potatoes in is supposed to be a deed. So it has to be registered to the CKS (Double Recording System) or it's not allowed to plant because the land is not registered to the CKS. Watery farmland is treasured land. The manufacturer can plant here by paying the government accretionally. However, he has to pay around $100 a year per year per decedent. If this area is 30, it's going to have to pay $3,000. Which normally bends the manufacturer's back. For this reason, the government must stop profiting from these already empty treasures and be removed from their crops. The state must stop making money on the manufacturer's land through the state. With legal regulations, motherhood from abroad is prohibited. Only seeds and lower quality seeds in the country can be planted by our farmers. Farmers state that there is low productivity in the seedlings raised in the country. Part of the stability in the sale of potatoes is that potato exports were not made in 2011. Therefore, the farmer kept the product. Support, incentives and bonuses must be redesigned according to the conditions of the day, and production must be planned to sustain production. If the manufacturer is too victimized because of overproduction, the state must receive intervention to address this victim, and the potato maker's sacrifice must be immediately removed. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission also has one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Monday (February 24th 2014) at 18 p.m. of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A seminar by the European Parliament's Pre-accession Action Unit will be held on 4 March 2014 in Tirana, Albania on "Basic Rights, Non-discrimination and Protection of Minorities." The issue of accession to the seminar is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 26/10/2011, the main number (2/115) is Social Insurance No.5510, and the Legislature Proposal for Adding a Interim Article to the General Health Insurance Act 37. I submit the matter shall be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under its provisions. Yes, the petitioner, the bidder, Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0018par0407	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, my proposal for a direct agenda is regarding a law that went into effect on September 8, 1999. As we know, the second article of our Constitution accepts the principle of social state as one of the basic qualities of our republic. Social security is one of the most important social policy tools that serves to carry out the social policy principle. In this regard, social security services are the primary duties of the social government. Since social security legislation has been constantly changed in our country, it is impossible for a worker to plan his retirement under what conditions, after the employee's employment. As you know, in 1999, the retirement regime changed radically. Retirement age has been raised by a system known as the GDP. Later, it was annulled by the Constitutional Court, but on 23/5/2002, its provisions came into effect, on the condition that it remained in the law. Of course, from that day forward, before 1999, the workers caused a number of victims for those who were employed. The existence of three conditions for retirement is known to all of us. This has been encouraged by the government, especially by the AKP governments, as well as by the public institutions' laws, as well as by the government, as well as by the AKP governments, for filling up the number of days of bonus-days, while the other is the number of days of service. Those filling the number of prim days were transferred to retirement by raising severance or pensions by 25 per cent to 40 per cent. Many employers in the private sector also deserve to retire. You've done twenty-five years, and you've counted the bonus days. They've added new pensioners to the pensioners, ignoring the age-appropriation issue. Today, those who have retired workers, laborers, and pensioners from the SEC have actually eaten their severance pay, and today they have no money to send their children to school, looking for work. When young 20-25-year-old unemployed people can't get jobs, there's no way they can hire those 45-50-year-old citizens, not to mention a registered job. Either they're trying to give their children an allowance by means of unregistered, day-to-day and so on, or they're busy in the streets expressing their reaction because they've been wronged. Dear friends don't torture or torture a social citizen, they don't ruin his life or the lives of his children by framing a social citizen. Now, we say continuity is essential in the state. Yes, on the 26th of August of '99, this law, which was held in force on September 8th, created tens of thousands of victims. Those victims are unable to face their children today. They try to express their reaction in Ankara, Izmir, Istanbul, although they can't concentrate because they don't have money in many parts of the country. Everyone sees, everyone hears, but unfortunately the government doesn't hear, the Labour Minister doesn't. They've been informed that there's been a new arrangement these days, a group of people who hang out at this age. When we expect to receive 3-5 cents, the Ministry of Labor says it is more than satisfactory to make an arrangement that will ensure their health, examination, and treatment. Dear friends, what needs to be done here is very clear: the unemployment benefit Fund can either be used as an internal financing tool or as a debtor's tool, or as a loanor, ▪GAP investments did not go there to enrich co-friendly investments -- at least by using those resources, this victimization can be temporarily removed, or the law must be removed from the date of its release, in order to ensure that the previous people deserve to retire according to the conditions of their employment. I invite everyone to be sensitive, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0019par0416	Thank you. On behalf of an MP, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0020par0419	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. Dear friends, as a father, as a mother, when you can't bring home any bread, I offer to your conscience how embarrassed you are in front of your children. These people can't bring bread home. These people don't want anything, they just want their rights, and the Minister of Labor -- I say so -- will be named as the Labour Minister, who puts those who are left in the grave, and will be buried in the grave by the Minister of Labour. I'll say it all the time. We are not beggars, we want our rights. After 45 years of age, after 50 years of age, no one gives us a job. We can't bring bread to our house. Don't give us anything for nothing. Mr. Cetin just told us. ▪ Lend us money. How long before I retire? Two years to go. Lend us two years, loan us money. Lend it to me at minimum wage. Cut that off from us with a quarter of the minimum wage ahead. We don't beg. He has formula, but you don't hear him, your ears are deaf. Come with us, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Cetin. Mr. Çam. We've always gone from İstanbul's Kadiköy. We've always gone from Ankara. These people are miserable, crying after this age. Again, we say: "We don't want a loan, pay a fee from the unemployment fund, two years to retire, three years to retire, and three years to pay at minimum. Come back later, I'll give you a quarter of what you're paying me, fellas. We want a loan, we want it for bread, we don't want it. We're decent people, we don't want to be a burden to anyone, but God damn those who shame our children! This Minister will put these people in their graves. Sir, it didn't come out in our time. There's human tissue. Whoever did it, whenever they did it, there's a continuity of the state, and if there's a problem somewhere, it's the government's job to fix it. We've been singing for 12 years, we've been shouting for 12 years, and we've been saying, "Take care of these hungry people." But whatever wisdom it is, you hear everything, you hear too much, you hear too much of the parallel structure, but when it comes to these people, you don't hear it. Friends, it's a sin. If you fear sin - if you fear no sin - if you have a conscience - I say so - come and see the state of these people; come and see the state of these people.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0021par0424	You wouldn't curse, Brother.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0020par0425	I will, my friend, for these I will. Because if he can't bring home the bread, to bring his family a piece of bread if these people go home at night after their children are asleep, shame on us all! All I'm saying is, I don't want to make this conversation too much; just shame on this House, shame on all of us! My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0022par0431	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit01spe0023par0432	Well, I'll grant you the roll call. Mr. Altay, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Tüçük, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Şelebi, Mr. Şelebi, Mr. Köse, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Çıray, Mr. Ören, Mr. Tün, Mr. Akar, Mr. Havutç, Mr. Korutk, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Demir, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0023par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with Article 37 of the Interior Charter of Ankara MP Izzet Çetin, the motion to be taken directly on the agenda had been called for a roll call before the vote was voted. The roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, starting roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 3rd place, the Deputy Chair of the Movement for Humanity, Ilyas Candy and Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and 18 MP Haydar Akar's proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws; Manisa MP Erkan Akçay and Millitarian Movement Party Group Chairman Mehmet Şandir's Co-Chair Mehmet Şandir; 657 State Officers' Law Proposal for Amendments in the Law; Neveli MP Haydar Akar's proposal for amendments to some Law and Laws; 7269-based Umumi Haydar Akar's Order for Humanitarian Affairs; We will also propose an additional amendments to Aids to the Laws of Humanitarian Movement Party (Se. The commission and the government are in place. The 61st Union, dated 13/02/2014, was to discuss the second part of the law proposed as the main law under Article 91. The request for a closed session on behalf of the National Movement Party Group has been withdrawn. Now, the first word for political party groups is Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0024par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. (x) 546 S. The Numbered Basmaz (11/02/2014) was added to its 59th Union Charter. Dear friends, another bag of laws, the AKP classic. Why do I say that? There's another bag of law upstairs. Mr. President, can you provide a calm? Let's just say to the friends that the roll call is over. They'll probably be back soon.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0025par0035	Congressmans, there's a buzzing in the hall, the conversation of the defendant is not understood. Please be quiet. Here you go, Mr. Günal, and I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0024par0037	They're not listening, so let's address our nation.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0025par0038	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0024par0039	Dearly beloved, we said here, we said here, we said here, we said here, we said here, we said here, but it's still going on. Come on, we're arguing here, we're talking about the materials, the ink before it's dry, and then, tomorrow, there's another bag coming into the Plan and Budget Commission. Yeah, I don't understand what kind of law enforcement is! Dear ministers, dear members of the group, would such a thing happen before someone else's is dry? We talked here, and we said, "It's relevant, it's irrelevant, everything's in there." 30, 35 points coming up, 55 points coming up, and you're looking at another bill, so let's add another one. That's not gonna happen. Really, it's a violation of the will of the House here. Of course, it's become so much the law is somewhere, our friends are here...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0026par0040	There's not a bureaucrat, there's a local government!
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0024par0041	They don't need bureaucrats, they said not to come.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0026par0042	There's no bureaucrat!
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0027par0043	This is respect for Parliament!
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0024par0044	Mr. Aslanoglu, we don't need a bureaucrat anyway, they're just putting them in one place and the MPs are raising their fingers. Our friends here don't even listen to what's being discussed most of the time, or they come up and lift their fingers. A bag of laws like that can't be a law-making technique. There's no impact analysis, there's no necessary arrangements, there's no mechanism to repair the errors related to the procedure. I've told you over and over, the Plan and Budget Commission has returned to the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions. The legislature's Chairman of the Laws brings it up according to what's called. I mean, would there be a law in which there are 28 separate laws and laws in which there are regulations, such a thing? So, now, come on, you've done it, you've fought... I'm telling you, it's up there, you'll see what laws are in it tomorrow. Our friends are laughing, but I'm afraid there's such a freak. For one thing, you have to give up the way you make that law. Of course, the bag won't fill. We made the bag. In the meeting the other day, Mr. Tayyar has made a motion for opposition in order to fill the bag. On the contrary, your bag won't fill. I told you, it's a bunch of kids' bags! But it doesn't fill here either, so you make the law, you have a bag, you put everything in it, you can't fill it, you can't fill it up, you can't fill it up again, you can't fill it up again, you can't fill it up again. So unfortunately, you don't have a bag of laws, you don't have a bag of money, none of them fill up, none of them fill up, and you keep coming back short, and you're trying to complete it. Now, there are very important regulations here, there are positive regulations, maybe there are urgent ones, but you're looking at the number of assistant assistants in many institutions, the number of vice presidents, the number of regulators, the number of auditing agencies, the addition of each law, our friends, the number of bureaucrats, they recommend changes, the new advisory staffs to appoint a place to appoint high-level executives. There can't be a public staff regime like this. There used to be a standard for this, and there was an executive unit of the government's staff regime, and there was an assistant service. In every decree of the law, in the law, you have broken it from beginning to end with new regulations. Come, I repeat, let us restore this standard. Why do I say it? Another injustice here is about career experts who come in some ministries, some institutions we fix here, but unfortunately, now that we're looking at it, there are some regulations in this law about the Ministry of Youth and Sports, some of which have been withdrawn by our warnings, but you're causing another injustice. Now, look, we've got all the notes, all the writing from the victims, you know, in the previous articles, we've got civil defense experts and expert assistants. Unfortunately, they're watching the AFAD experts and expert assistants take a different position, while they're victims of doing it themselves. Well, okay. We've got investigators, we've got incoming, we've got IRS employees. They've all come in here, and they've told us, and they've told us, and they've told you, and they've done it over and over, and they've come here and they've done it face-to-face. It's still unfair when we leave one victim to the other. That's why we say, instead of trying to solve them with this patch, we need to sit down and make arrangements to keep up these setbacks, to keep up the work peace, to ensure justice among the workers. Dear friends, in this frame, of course, you listen to them, you come up and you lift your fingers, but when something happens to the allies, it passes right away, and I don't understand. I mean, something's going on, it's a private arrangement, it's an arrangement for someone, it's a regulation of a law, it's not a tax debt for a citizen. When the Court's Law was being discussed here, we spoke - if you remember. We say, "Come, who have you pardoned the tax fines through the settlement of taxes, sir, we can't look here." Well, the citizen has a tax debt, let's pay it off. No way. The citizen has a premium debt, so let's put these in order. He's got a citizen's foreign currency loan, so he's a victim, so let's put this in order, let's make it into installments. You're saying no. Of course, when it comes to citizens, I'm afraid you avoid taking measures to relieve that distress. For him, the law is being prepared somewhere. That's what I mean by that. Out of urgency, in haste, someone needs something, it's being arranged. No red tape, certain levels of information, no opinion from relevant institutions through the Prime Minister's office. The comprehensive arrangements that must come as a bill come as an offer with the signatures issued by some of our fellow lawmakers at the request of the government. I'm afraid there's such a freak. Of course, on the one hand, the citizens continue to be victims. New figures are being announced, Turkey's economy is continuing to suffer. The unemployment figures came in, corrected, even organized, 9.9. When you look here, there is more than 20 percent youth unemployment. And if you look at statistics, there are some things that aren't said, and you put in the ones that aren't looking for jobs, and you put in the ones that are ready to work, and you put in the ones that have lost hope of getting a job, that's over 20 percent. Now, dear friends, we have to stop burying our heads in the sand. We need to deal with the citizens' problems and solve their economic and social problems. On the one hand, with the current record breaking for $65 billion, there's no point in us dealing with some political debates here, some legal regulations that you need urgently, some HSYK arrangements to cover bribery investigations. By focusing on the real problems of the nation, the laws that you've made here without the structural measures that would prioritize economic production in the economy will temporarily prevent investigations, but there will be no solution to any of the people's problems, and then yours -- and the ruling party -- will have a negative impact on these developments. Because the authority given by the nation here is given to you, to serve the nation, to solve the problems of the nation, to bury our heads in the sand, to cover them up, there's no way we can ignore them. Indeed, because of today's uncertainty, developments in the economy have affected our people's investment and consumption decisions. The leaf is not moving right now, the market is in limbo. It is not possible to expect these decisions to change until we quickly resolve this state crisis. So let's make some arrangements that will help solve the problems of citizens, solve economic and social problems, remove the next funeral, instead of a number of laws that can help yourselves in such a hurry, such as investment, exports, employment, and let's make decisions here together. Otherwise, no matter how many times you try to cover it up, no matter how many judges, prosecutors, even if you pressure the police, these irregularities will one day surface. Of course, the important thing is to take these structural measures and make sure that these problems are resolved in time. Otherwise, even if you cover it up, there will be corruption, corruption elsewhere. Let's do some work here without looking at parallel government debates. Otherwise, after a while -- last time I told you -- I think you're going to destroy the negatives in the economy into the parallel state in the economy. On the one hand, Mr. Prime Minister is talking about the Central Bank. Last time, the President was here, we asked him at the briefing, but we wouldn't be surprised if you tried to tear things down tomorrow at this independent agency. In this framework, he says these arrangements must be revised and made for the benefit of our nation, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0028par0056	Thank you. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0029par0059	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've been exposed to a bag of laws for some time now. On December 17th, corruption operations were conducted; no forged documents, no added CDs, no confidential witnesses. What have you got? There are shoe boxes, there are $4.5 million in them; there are sacks, there are hours of money, there are zoning, there are money in the clothing case or in the chocolate box; there are safes in the bedroom; there are images of police watching the police; there are law offers, bills brought to parliament in a hurry. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a proposal of such a law that the university is established before the National Education Commission, which is called the University of Biruni. He is one of the greatest scholars of his time. Born on the 13th article, Birünî was born in 973, and walked to Hakk. Even though Abu Reyhan Bin Muhammad, the Birani, Arabic, Persian, Hebrew, Syriace, Greek and Chinese; mathematics, astronomy, geometry, physics, chemistry, medicine, medicine, history, geography, philology, ethnology, geology, religions, and religions, he could not have been out of the law, with less capital, he would have said something to those who tried to start a university with six faculty, one university, one university, three institutes! Medical school will be established, dentistry, pharmaceuticals, medical sciences, education, engineering, institutes... Shame on the students who come here, shame on their parents, and a sin on those who build them. The patients of those who have graduated from medical school -- Teacher, here -- who have graduated from this kind of medicine -- will die, the bridges that graduate from this kind of engineering school will be destroyed. That's why most of the destruction we face today. With this law, the esteemed lawmakers will also be the head of the Undersecretary of the County Service Association, established by their special administration. No share, no contribution; private administrations, local governments; municipalities, local governments, the deputy director of the general administration will be the head of that unit. There's such a thing as shame! Those who lack legal knowledge can only bring such an arrangement. Dear friends, with this law, there are some superficial things that are being done, but what problem is being solved in the public agenda? Our farmers will buy the world's most expensive diesel tomorrow. The drug money has increased, the fertilizer money has increased, the product they're selling is worthless, it stops farming, it stops planting, our country is losing production. The pensioners won't be able to pay their debts again tomorrow. The retirement arrangement was disappointing. The fixed income will try to reconstruct how they can bring in the moon's head. Uneducated young people are postponing their dreams of getting married and settling down again. The unemployment was 9.9. Our statistics teacher, the late Saim Özr, said that there are three kinds of lies: lies, comets, statistics, lies. We're dealing with a purely statistical lie. Unqualified workers may reach 9.9%, but qualified, educated, young people by 25 percent. How do we clean up this shame? How can these young ones look to the future with confidence? The unregistered teachers are again alone in their desperation. The shopkeeper opens his shop with a five-pack, not sure if he'll make it. Import-export imbalance is growing, but there's one more thing that's growing: the amount of tenders from companies who donate to TURGEV, filling the pool with money for Sabah-ATV. Does a goose ever get chicken from a place to come? But the most shameless of them all is the immoral sinner who blasphemes against his people. When it comes to people, you'll see what they put in the trunk. Meanwhile, the ships, the sailors, will dock at the ports for a third of the masoz sold to the farmer. Taxes reaching 18 per cent of mandatory requirements will continue to sell expensive jewelry without VAT. Specialized sergeants are not allowed legal rights. A lot of specialist sergeants quit, can't get a new job. The exchange victims have suffered from the state's failures, family crisis, devastated, and still no solution to their problems. The 2/B land was not given to the poor peasant at a reasonable price. In fact, our offer for free was not accepted. Our Chief of Staff is still rotting in prison, with some of the wrongful practices recognized. The trial of those who put money in shoe boxes, who lost their right to orphans in the lighthouse's dimness could not be initiated. Some of the 700,000-dollar gifts they put on their wrists were shamelessly asking for a party to vote for, while those who took a sack of bribes were on the market, while Van's little Muharrem made his last trip with a sack on his father's back. Those who devour the poor's due, those who steal it, those who steal it, those who do not question it are incurable. Those who were dismissed from duty for not committing crimes... those who defended the guilty, slandered the innocent, or did not do their duty properly, drove the innocent from place to place. It is clear that police officers who have committed crimes against the judicial authorities have been driven from place to place to place, but no additional indicators have been fulfilled, and they have yet to retire with acquitive rights. The Prime Minister complains against the press, complains about the Internet, complains about the judiciary, complains about the opposition, complains about democratic rights seekers in the Travel, complains that they've allied their 11 years in power, and complains about the pagans in Kabatas. Why didn't you find it and process it? We're also complaining about the Prime Minister. If the last fragments of democracy are lifted, the Prime Minister will be a Democrat, just like the Pravda practice in the Soviet Union. Pravda wrote what the communist rulers said, the entire Soviet community had to think so. In Turkey, Mr. Prime Minister, the press is forcing everyone to think as they are. He uses all of his talents in haste to deceive and deceive the public. Congressmans, why are the universities silent when all this is happening? Is Mr. Chief of Religious Affairs Mehmet Gormez, who is the prime minister of the Prime Minister, also unresponsive? What is a sacred thing, and what is a lawful food, and what is a forbidden hand? Why does he not share the high teachings of our religion with the congregation? Honorable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, on the other hand, force public officials to be biased. Honored public servants perform their duties objectively. In the last 11 years, millionaires have also multiplied, but millions have become poorer. In that sense, on March 30th, millions of poor people will teach the proper lesson to those who do not use the trust properly. I pay tribute to the lawmakers who remain faithful to their oaths.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0030par0087	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0031par0090	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this bag is open to the law. In three days, there will be other things in this bag, and I write here, and let the Qur'an strike me by the name of those who remember the Qur'an when they are three months old. I'm telling you, with a bag of laws like this, with a concept of law enforcement, it's a waste of our minds to bring new offers here and force them to do so. It's got AFAD, city councils, state-owned private administrations. And it's on the Internet... so God doesn't put anyone on the Internet. I don't know where Mr. Gul was; was he in Budapest, I don't know -- he says there's a signal he gave about this: let the Constitutional Court decide. So, what's the mission of the Mansion? Why was he given veto privileges? If you have veto rights, why don't you use them? You have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, why don't you use your rights and go to the opposition parties. According to the Constitution, only one party can go because 110 MPs have to sign, which can go to CHP as the main opposition party. Now, from here, from here to here... we've passed the law on Internet regulation. We have seven days until the law in the mansion is approved; then we will come, and we will make arrangements for the Internet law here. What law are we going to uphold? We will change a law that has not yet been established, a law on the road, to the Mansion on the road, at which time we shall wait, before the law is passed, and before it is approved. Now, what does that solve, fellas? It doesn't solve anything. When we look at this law, it's as if the AK PARTI are sensing an air in local elections that will not win mayors of the city, and that's taking all the powers from local governments, centrally, under the governors. Now, look, about public finance and debt management, he says that the money that came from the Istanbul earthquake was given to the state's private administration earlier, as a result of the council's decision. Now let's make a change of law with this law, the state's private administration will be lifted, and the councilmen, let's give that money to the governor. Well, isn't the city council replacing the city council? Isn't that city's building, that city's earthquake, that city's road, that city's sewer, that city's school to fix, the education of the city's city city? Isn't that what the city councils will be working for? Friends, what is this insecurity against the chosen? If you are so insecure about the chosen ones and continue to be used by the Istanbul Governor without being included in the years-old investment programme. If you give such authority, then what is the value of the city's mayor and parliament elected by the people? I just don't get it. Again, the Undersecretary of the Interior Minister will be the undersecretary of the Union, according to Article 10 of the Constitutional Administration Act. So you put a appointee on each of the chosen ones, appointees, appointees, you put your own man, let's be clear. You put your own man on top of the opposition city, so he doesn't work, report, or report. Wrong. Again, you place youth centers and Boy Scout camps in the Ministry of Youth and Sports next to the facilities where you are trained under the control of the Ministry of Religious Affairs. I wonder if friends, muezzins, imams will set up a scout camp. Which mosque, which Diyanette sports are they having, for God's sake? So don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't mix the handle with the straw. Can you tell me, what does diabetes have to do with this kind of thing? Or does another thing come to mind: Do you want to create a vertical, vertical organizational model as an alternative in this parallel discussion, something new? That's what this means. Monthly commitment to successful athletes. How many successful Olympic athletes do you have? Just yesterday, a 21-year-old Taekwondo boy died during a sporting event. All this budget, all this money... for God's sake, save these people's lives. Let him get a medal, a monthly tie in an approach that will protect his life. And after the President's declaration in the Ministry of Disaster and Emergency... how much are you in love with him? How much of a presidential lover are you? Let's spread the power a little bit to the locals, a little bit to the people, a little to the bottom, and let the public decide their own problems. Don't bring everything here, the appointment of the youngest officer. Again, you see, you're authorizing all disaster squads of rural agencies to be appointed by the governor, governor, governor. Governor, friends, can you imagine? The governors will appoint all the staff. Is that an approach? That's wrong, that's the result of this diseased approach that you have three cards in public purchases, business purchases. One card is red. It's written on your card. No, there is no congregation, the congregation has always been given a blue card. Only the opposition and the opposition were redened, the green ones weren't interested in politics, and the blue chips were all party members, partisans, as they were. Be wary of God, how can you separate our intelligent, poor, ten percent of the KPSS test from your own mind, according to your own mind, according to your own mind, with these markings in the interview, with the children of our laborers? Is there any greater discrimination than that? Isn't that a sin, fellas? Isn't the worst thing to do to this country to divide and multiply people according to their thoughts? That's an understanding. Again, here you are, in a rush to lose the local elections, forming the President of Investment Watch and Coordination right away in major cities. Where do you set it up? You set it up in the Law on the Building of Metropolitan Municipality in 14 provinces, and when you have built it, you connect it to the governor again. I think you've given up on Istanbul, it's understood, from Ankara, and from the cities -- Van has already gone from the cities -- from Mardin, from Diyarbakır, and from Fairfax, by the permission of Allah. Guys, so you're in a rush to lose the election, filling this bag with laws like this, that's what you're in a hurry to do. However, if you strengthen local governments, there won't be so much bribery, corruption, looting; it will be inspected locally, controlled locally, and you will be comfortable. But it turns out that you also have to change the name of the Head of Guidance and Control, which you have formed with new staffs, that you do all kinds of work; that the Joker does all kinds of work. You're opening staffs you haven't named, God bless you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0032par0104	Thank you. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0033par0107	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I'm having a satire. This section is all about the local authorities. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, since the major cities are closing down, this chapter is all about local administration until the end. There's not a single official from the Ministry of Interior, and I'm in awe of it, and I'm in awe of it. Yeah, there's no authority, so who are we going to tell, why are we talking here, who are we talking to? Dear lawmakers, there is a 41st article in this section, a surrender to the address, a delivery to the address. In public capital companies... but unfortunately, you've spent the day, it's no use. On February 14th, the new Turkish Trade Law came into force. If it had been before February 14th, they would have adapted it accordingly. Pull that clause now, Mr. Group Vice President. You were going to give it as a Valentine's Day gift to the agency, to the address, but unfortunately you couldn't give it to Valentine's Day because the law was delayed, the new Turkish Trade Law came into effect on February 14th. By February 14th, those who couldn't adapt tried to put in a custom clause. It's open to public companies to protect the minority's rights. Article 479 of the Turkish Trade Law says that those who disobey this law, those who disobey it, go to court, and judge from the court. But you, for what it's worth... some public corporations went to court, decided not to abide by the law, the court ruled, but unfortunately the institution you were going to make a custom dress forgot, didn't go to court, tried to pass it by law. He tried to pass a jurisdiction from here with the law, but it's no use since it's past February 14th. Actually, get that stuff out, get that stuff out. Dear friends, to restore a jurisdictional authority with the will of the House... I am truly ashamed of it. It was your jurisdiction, some institutions went away, some public companies made a judgment decision, and they adapted it to that clause of the Turkish Trade Law, but no matter what it was, it didn't go away, he wanted to pass it, but it's okay. My dear friends, another matter of interest. The mayors are being held by the trustees. He says, "Go, open the building of your chieftainship here." It's going to the poor mayor, where he's at, and I'm not talking about professional clubs and sports clubs, but amateur clubs again, sub-primes and municipalities. In any case, whoever thought of it, they went to places where the sub-primes and municipalities were publicized, and they put a primordial out on the mayors and sports clubs. In Istanbul, about 100 or so chiefs were seized; their wages, their homes. Friends... you show the place, you go, you sit here. What's your job, Home Office? Sports clubs are subject to the Law of Associations, and it is up to you to uphold them; and it is not up to you to uphold them, to uphold their rights? But you've thrown it, and you've called it Mavla katana. No, guys, that's not gonna happen. About 100 headmen are being repossessed, their assets are being seized. About 80 sports clubs were foreclosed on, and all their rulers were foreclosed on because they were subject to the Law of Associations. So there's that manager's fault, that amateur sports club, a volleyball, basketball...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0034par0110	The minister's in the back.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0033par0111	Who, which minister? Minister of Sports... Well, Mr. Secretary, shame on you if you don't claim the rights of amateur sports clubs! It's foreclosure, foreclosure, foreclosure, amateur sport, foreclosure. The government shows the place, the place shows the place, the municipality shows its location, and then they're foreclosed on foreclosure. That's not gonna happen, Mr. Secretary. From that point of view... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] First owner, Ministry of Internal Affairs, second owner, Mr. Secretary. This problem must be solved. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0035par0117	Thank you. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who has asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0036par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the bag of 546 rows of law, and I hereby salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the most important thing to focus on here is a review of this law-making technique. Here, this law-making technique is literally the joy of some of the parameters that are defined in line with their own political needs, by overlapping a number of things that have nothing to do with each other, and being filled into a bag of laws. There's no such thing as a bag of laws. In our literature, it's a form of law enforcement. Now, take a look at what's in this 546 line of law, and let's make a brief contact with it: there are 3,000 recruitment clauses, there are bets and games of chance, there are measures for disasters, there are provisions related to State Officers Act 657, there are articles related to the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act, there are substances related to the Law on Cooperatives, there are substances related to the Law on Traffic Law; there are substances related to the Highways, there are substances related to the Traffic Act, there are articles about education, there are drugs, there are children, there are drugs to the State Officers's Law on its sons. Now, the healthy consideration of these substances, the study, the analysis, what it brings to society, what it takes, what it takes to focus on this is not a job that this General Assembly can do, it has to be done on the residency commissions, but not in the residency commissions, but in the Plan and Budget Commission, it has been referred to the Parliament. Dear lawmakers, December 17, 2013 is actually a solstice. The chemistry of the Justice and Development Party's ruling since 17 December 2013 has been corrupted. The fallen Justice and Development Party is trying to change, transform, and suppress society in some way all the laws that cannot be considered by pushing all the resources and times they can, that might harm them, that might discuss their own actions. The power is not democratic. The government doesn't believe in the democratic parliamentary system, the ruling doesn't believe in the state of law, the power doesn't believe in freedom of press and expression, and so I want to say out loud here that the power is almost in a position to discuss its legitimacy. Who are you to interrupt the group meeting of the president of the National Movement Party? What gives you the right? Are you a pharaoh or a tyrant, give us an explanation so we can find out? Who the hell are you to come out of the press to take any of the press out of the press and write this down, wipe it off, and replace it with the other one? Or how do you want to interfere with a television station and remove some of the articles written on that channel? What kind of democracy has this, what law does it have that, what legal state does it have that? So you haven't internalized a system where there's a law state or democracy or freedom of expression, so to speak. You're a democratically challenged government, and you're making the Internet law by sacrificing yourself to anger? Why? That's where your voice is reflected. If you have nothing to hide from the public, anything to hide from the public, why are you trying to change the Internet law and bring censorship? Or how is it that you, when the HSYK is so far leaving with honey cream, you're all over the HSYK, changing the HSYK altogether, so to speak, you're in charge of your own judgment? So, there is no state of the Republic of Turkey, as of today, from the moment this law is in effect, the Justice and Development Party has a trial. That's the way everyone knows it, and it's going to have to be prepared now to take on some of the cost. Who has laid a hand on that law, meaning democracy in the Republic of Turkey, meaning the separation of forces, and therefore, will give his account in a very appropriate, legal context when the time and place comes. Now you're loading up the classrooms. Let's see what the school law says. We said don't do it, we said it wrong, we tried to say it out loud a hundred times, you didn't understand it, you didn't listen at all, so you took it into consideration in the context of a bag bag, and you're coming up with a very serious problem. The laws you're making now are yours... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...your feet will be the biggest shackles, and you won't be able to answer that in public or in universal law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0037par0131	Thank you. The question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0038par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, although there has been insurance service in the past, I mean, he's done various jobs, but there's no record of that service. We have thousands of tradesmen who can't retire because he doesn't count, and we have farmers. You're in a hurry to bring in a bag of laws. We're taking the thief, the corrupter, the laws that will protect it from this House, but do you intend to solve the problems of our citizens that concern the millions? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0039par0137	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0040par0139	Mr. Secretary, the Sincan-Batikent subway line opened last week, so we just wanted to wish you all the best. Now, there's been a very serious problem, but I don't think it's been thought of before. Those who came from Sincan came to the Westtown came to the Red Sea after they had landed in the Westville Subway. The Westville was already a very busy place for our citizens, and the trains here were not responding to the need. Now, with our citizens coming from Sincan to Westville, our citizens are building up a very serious crowd in the Westville area, and our citizens are currently unable to board the train. Beyond getting on the train, there's a crowd that can't even get off at the end of a few stops. This has to be taken very quickly. It's an important investment, but it's now become an application that tortures our citizens. I give you your attention.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0039par0140	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0041par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. A member of the town of Tokat has asked us to ask the government on the phone, saying our citizen is taking out a citizen's loan from the banks. During credits, many pencils also receive expenses under various names. We're paying even though these expenses are said to be non-refundable. When will this be lifted? The second question is that the Slap farmer owes money to agriculture loans and banks. So he's in foreclosure. Is there any study of whether or not the interest is expunged or restructured regarding farmers' debt? Another issue is that after privatisation, some institutions -- especially companies such as TEDAS -- receive money by making additional bills under various names. These coins, they're like, you know, turn-off money, like electricity, or water and shut-off money. I want to know if there is a need for a new arrangement or if there is work to be done. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0042par0147	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0043par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President -- we have farmers brothers in our district -- who owe money to the watering co-ops in Burma, and are now being carried out. It's the fault of our friends to produce and to give life to water. Do you want to make any improvements in this matter by the bag of legislation or later? Or, in a different way, there are those who are currently in prison, there are those who are being executed, there are thousands of people, how do we solve this problem together? They say they'll pay if the principal is paid in installments, they want the interest erased. I'd like to give you this from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0044par0152	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0045par0154	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to inform you about something and ask you a question about it. Over the last month in Mersin, especially in the cities in the Toros Mountains, Mut, Gülnar, Aydıncık, Silifke, other counties -- I don't know much about them, but in these counties, a huge amount of property has changed hands over the last month. One of them tells the farmer, "You must go to the rancher. You must give us your temple alone. He's collecting land at high prices." I'd like to give you a heads-up on this. Big numbers, I mean, not at work, the numbers are like 10,000, 20,000 acres. Can you do a little research on that? For what purpose is this gathering? Who collects this property? Can you identify them and let us know? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0046par0158	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0047par0160	Mr. President, thank you. Now, with the Secretary of Defense sitting here... maybe he wasn't involved in this law. Now, we have Kozan district of Adana. There was a platform in front of the courthouse in Kozan County. On this platform, the one who says, "Happy is the Turk." He's been promised for 80 years, 90 years. Well, there's a lot of laws coming out, that say, "Happy Turk." When I think about breaking the promise, we're tired of saying, "Happy Turk." Can you think of an addition to this law, Mr. Secretary, to say, "Happy Turk?"
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0048par0162	Kozan is all Turkish, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0049par0163	Thank you. Mr. Iron, I don't think there's a Mr. Iron. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0050par0166	Mr. President, my highly respected fellow lawmakers, Mr. Yilmaz, who can't retire because there's no record of him being retired, have a problem with his pension. He asked if you would make a legal arrangement for these things, even though there is no record of them. This government -- I mean, at least, because I know so well about petty officers, expert gendarmes, officers, or staff of the Armed Forces -- the country's economy brings back to this nation what it has taken from this nation as much as it can afford. I really don't mean that as a political polemic. But whatever they got in 2002 at the appropriate time -- each one of them, our teachers, our shopkeepers, our farmer, the farm worker -- we tried to do as much as possible to each one of them as possible. There's a pool here in retirement. There's a bonus in the pool, so the premium in this pool is run by an actuary account, and then it's distributed to pensioners. If there's a small bonus here in the pool, you've distributed too much, then you'll be exposed to social security, you'll be in trouble. For example, when I go to Sivas, believe me, Sivas is one of the poorest and poorest cities in the East and Southeast. That's what I get most of the time, he says: my pension is too low, you have to increase it. So, who should I take it to? We need to raise the bonus to the highest bidder. And then he'll say, "I've been paying premiums for 15 years, and the other guy's been paying bonuses for ten years." How do you compare a ten-year bonus to a 15-year bonus payer? So it's not easy to keep a justice, a right, a law, believe me, but we're trying to make sure that everyone gets a pension in accordance with the premium they pay. Hopefully, if there's anything I can do about it, I'll get it to the Department of Labor and Social Security. Another... of course, our deputy, Sincan-Batikent subway line has been opened. Surely, when we open this service, we open it to improve the standard of our citizens' lives, to give our citizens a little more access. Now, anyway, the population of the Western city was dense. Thus, the trains on the current lines were cramped to carry the citizen, and you moved the Sincan, and when you gave them here, people were virtually unable to sit down. Then we'll have to increase the number of trains, cars, the top structure that makes the journey. If necessary, we'll take this to the Ministry of Transport through the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's office -- that's where you'll be asking. However, there is no doubt that when I arrived in Ankara in 2002, it was possible to reach everywhere every hour of every day in ten minutes, but in the last ten years Ankara has doubled, the population of about 2.5 million has risen to 5 million. But know that there is a reasonable population where cities can be at peace, at peace, at peace. After increasing a certain population -- whether it's in New York, London, for example -- you can build an 8-story subway, but if you want to enter some parts of the city, you have to pay extra. The same thing happens in Singapore. When you enter some streets, you must pay at certain hours. Therefore, Ankara's population has reached 5 million people, and the population is still increasing in Ankara. So we're curing the infrastructure as much as possible, but we're going to have to move it to the right places to increase the number of trains. Again, Mr. Right, Reverend Minister, you get loans from banks, you get really expensive. Mr. Hayati, our responsible minister, indeed, has made a presentation on the Council of Ministers under the law on consumer protection. Surely the service must be repaid, and they can't do it if it's not taken, but it shouldn't turn out to be an unfair gain, leaving a citizen in distress. So Hayati Bey made a presentation in the Council of Ministers. It was considered under the Law on the Protection of the consumer. Many banks have dropped some costs, said they won't take them, but we have a study to make it even more reasonable. Again, in this context, the opening-and-closement of TEDAS is to be served, but as he said, we think it should be at a reasonable level. It's about irrigation troops... really, it's very cheap in natural irrigation, and it's four to five times more in electricity irrigation than the other. So it's impossible for these people to compete and compete with those who have acquired crops by paying with other natural irrigation. There's an arrangement for irrigation troops, and there's a joint work by our Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and our Department of Agriculture. Hopefully, after the election, he'll be made reasonable. Prices will go down, and the lower ones will go up very little, and we want to at least maintain a reasonable balance. If these interest rates can be erased, can their original debts be paid? I'm also conveying information to Mr. Shandır. In Mutta, Gülnar, Silifke, Aydıncık, they're changing hands, collecting land, even 10,000, 20,000 acres... I'll ask my friends about it: we'll get the information from Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, and we'll make sure it's delivered to you. At the very least, we'll find out who's gone -- let's just say -- to gather this land, but the government won't allow us to do anything wrong. Again, we are not disturbed by the one who says, "Happy is the Turk." We take all the people who live in this country to be Turks, there's no doubt about it. We accept Turks, but they say I'm not Turkish. So we don't find it true that any of our people should be asked, "What are you, you explain your race, are you Turkish?" But the name of this nation is the Turkish nation, the state of Turkey; it may be that I am Kurdish, or it may be that I am Circeşek. Or it may be that I am Kurd, or it may be that I am Turk, or it may be that I am Kurd. So I'll tell you, those who lived together for a thousand years in this geography got mixed up with each other and there was all kinds of assimilation, I'll tell you that. He went from Kurdish to Turkish to Kurdish, as he went from Turkish to Kurdish. You need to know 76 million brothers and sisters, 72 nations, no one needs to look at their language, their language, their faith. He says that I am ashamed to be told what is the language of the people whom Allah has allowed to carry his own soul, what is the religion, or what is the place at his table. Every human being worthy of carrying the spirit of God has a place above our heads, regardless of religion, language, race, or speech.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0051par0173	There is no such problem in Kozan, Minister.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0050par0174	I mean, that's what we're saying, we're not uncomfortable, we're confident. If someone's uncomfortable, they'll want it too. Don't worry about it. When you go to Germany, there's no doubt that if you're from our Kurdish brothers in Southeast, they'll say you're from Turkey or they'll say you're from Turkey. If you dig a little deeper, if you say from anywhere in Turkey, then from Diyarbakir or Ziirt, he'll ask if you're Arab or Kurdish. But the people living in Turkey have a common name, a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, a Turkish citizen, and we're not bothered by that. I'd like to thank my fellow lawmakers for asking all the questions. I'm going to answer these questions one by one to the bureaucracy, and I'm going to follow them one by one, and I'm going to make sure the question holders are answered in writing. Thank you again, Reverend President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0052par0177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Get into the system, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0053par0179	Minister, when I said this, I said, why is this phrase being erased by power or by municipalities or by courts? That's what's wrong with me. If you don't object to that, give me an order to rewrite it, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0052par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0054par0182	Reverend President, last sentence. There's nothing wrong with us. For God's sake, we're just thinking about what people think, okay? We don't want people to look like us. If people are calling the district of Seirtte, "Tillo" (Tillo) or "Tillo" (Tillo) or "Tillomaka" in Bitlis, we are citizens, he is the difference between us and others. Others, this is my truth. All of them, including the citizens, all of them, all of them. We say that politicians and statesmen are all part of our nation, that whatever he thinks he should be, we think like our nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0055par0185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are three motions on the 27th article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the 546 Numbered Law proposal be changed to "Taxis to the Governorate of Istanbul" in their first and second jokes of Article 27, which stipulates to organise the interim Article 8 of the law on the regulation of public financing and debt management of number 4749. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora The Evil Tiger Golden Tan Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-seven of the proposed law. We would like to change the term "no place in the investment programme" at the end of Article 8 to "for the work involved in the investment programme." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğütın Selahmetın Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 546 is 27. We propose and propose that the clause of the subjectal character be removed from the text of the substance. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0056par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0055par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0057par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0055par0215	Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0058par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, this clause includes the transfer of previous loans from the county's private administration -- again due to a amendment to the law on local government -- to the governorship. Dear friends, this is a matter of completion of some of the shortcomings that we've said at the time, a result of the errors in your lawmaking technique that I've just told you about. But, on this occasion, I've looked now - and Mr. Yilmaz is not interested in it - but Mr. Atalay is here. Mr. Bashir Atalay is both our minister in charge of the opening, and he's working on it for a long time as former Home Secretary. Mr. Secretary, something was said here about strengthening local governments. According to media reports the other day, I'd like to ask Mr. Atalay if we've given up on the terms of autonomy. Is that a negotiation? Indeed, when this Justice and Development Party was formed in 2001, it was one of the most important conditions placed on the table when negotiating with some overseas forces in its establishment. Now, are we withdrawing this? We can't help but wonder if something is being put in front of us because of the promises you've made to us before. Because, however, there are some developments that complete the picture. Earlier, during the travel events, the police were attacking everyone with TOMA, attacking them with gas. Now we're looking at the 15th anniversary of the separatist's arrest, there's demonstrations, there's no state, there's some incidents, there's no state. He's giving orders to the governor, the secretary, the minister, don't touch him, don't touch him... On the side, here, at the Dikmen gate, there are three or five troubled officers coming up, workers, tradesmen, trying to put on a show, whatever God gives, he goes on to all the security units with his rifle. Here, unfortunately, the information given by our friends who work in that area shows that some of the government's officials have begun to rise slowly in some provinces and that the structure, which you call a real, real parallel structure, has begun to dominate them. What's going on, Minister? As far as your promises here are concerned... You're talking to the Minister, but I'm saying it because you're responsible.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0059par0221	I'm listening, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0058par0222	Do you fulfill your vows or do you give them anything? There's no government authority in those provinces, I'm afraid there's a structure like that. The real parallel state was formed there, you didn't deal with it, you created an imaginary parallel state here in your head, you stopped fighting the existing parallel state, you started negotiating with the terrorist organization. We've been here for several days with laws. Aman, there's a parallel state, they're plotting against us, they're plotting against us. You're stalling with a bunch of useless things. Dear friends, look, there's no separation of forces here -- just as Mr. Özcan Yençe said briefly -- there's a full force of forces. Beyond the forces union -- as I have already told you -- is Recep Tayyip Erdogan entirely. I mean, all of our friends, unfortunately, have agreed to this arrangement by raising their finger without considering what's coming in here. Before the ink runs dry, there's a half-assed arrangement on the road, before it leaves the president or gets out.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0060par0225	Come on, Congressman, it's not happening.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0058par0226	Yes, I'm afraid so, Mr. Irony. You know how many times our friends come in here and don't see what they're pointing at, and you've seen it. For him... that's not my concern, look, Mr. Demiröz, dear friends, the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation are being publicly threatened. The work that Mr. Atalay started today...sir, 50,000 people died, 500,000 others died....how do you remove them? I can't take it, guys. Isn't that a direct threat? Why are we dead? Why did those who died in Çanakkale die? Why did those who died during the Battle of Salvation die? Really, if you can handle these things, I have nothing to say to you. This is a public threat. Come on, if you're going to fight, the parallel state is built there, the city is built there, the village is built, and there are people out there who get taxes and cut roads and form a parallel state of their own. Let's fight them first. Look, the Turkish nation does not submit to these threats, but right now, as head of the administration, the Prime Minister and the ministers must take the initiative first. Five million people, not 500, if necessary, but their dreams never come true, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0061par0229	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-seven of the proposed law. We would like to see the matter changed into a change in terms of work that are part of the investment programme, without a place in the application program at the end of Article 8. Ensar Öğün (Ardahan) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0062par0236	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0061par0237	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0063par0238	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0061par0239	Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0064par0241	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the Law Proposal 546 rows. I salute you all. Dear friends, there is an offer on article 27 of which the state of Turkey is in debt for the earthquake to be paid to İstanbul Governor because private administrations have closed the loans taken from the outside of the state of Turkey. I'll tell you this: Every investment here is happening to Istanbul and it's happening west, there's no investment in the east; there's no earthquake in the east, there's an understanding that there's no people in the east. Now, let me tell you this: I was in Ardahan yesterday. I have held a meeting with our candidate, Mete Özdemir, candidate for mayor of Lake Lake, candidate for mayor of Hanak, candidate for mayor of Hanak, candidate for Damal Mayor, candidate for Ergin Önal, candidate for mayor of Posof, candidate for mayor of Şükrü Bozyiğit, and candidate for Mayor of Madness Nurettin Aygün. In 1924 and 1926, Ardahan, Kars, Pacelim, Erzurum, there was a major earthquake in the region, and there were no stones left on the stone, many of our people died and the region suffered a victim. So is the Erzincan earthquake, and that's the reason for the migration. But I've talked to experts, and there's a big squeeze in the fault line from Ardahan, Kars, Erzurum, which comes from that region, and they say there could be an earthquake at any moment because of this compression. And our scientists have given us this earthquake, and I've met with my mayoral candidates, and we're doing a detailed planning in both the Ardahan headquarters and the districts. After this plan, earthquake - resistant homes will be built, housing will be built. If we can't build earthquake-resistant homes and condos there, there's still no way we can prevent a major disaster in that area if there's an earthquake if there's people in the houses of our ancestors that we built a hundred and fifty-two hundred years ago, in the houses that we built. In this sense, our mayoral candidates suggest that the state specifically should give the northern fault lines to our region as well as to the areas in the east and southeast as well as to the areas in which the northern fault line is crossing, in absolute form, on the outside, on loan from the outside, on loans for the earthquake, to spend on Istanbul. In Eastern Anatolia, in the southeast, especially in areas where the northern fault line is going -- Erzincan, Erzurum, Kars, Ardahan, that region -- is a disaster. So in 1926, the Pacilen earthquake happened in Erzurum, and Ataturk went away, and the whole place was destroyed, and everyone knew it, and there was no stone left on the stone in the earthquake in 1924. In that sense, only as if there are people in the west of Turkey, as if there are no people in the east, if the state is borrowing money, then it must be separated in both Ardahan, Kars, and Erzurum, and Erzincan. Dear friends, yesterday I traveled in Ardahan, I traveled in Kars. Believe me, I tell you, the shopkeeper in Kars. The shopkeeper in Ardahan says: "We can't pay our rent, we can't pay our taxes. We're in a miserable situation, we're closing our shop without making a profit. Anyway, water's frozen at minus 30 degrees -- look, guys -- there's no running water, so there's a society that melts snow and drinks water. In my opinion, the government must pay a salary to the society that melts snow and drinks water. As he doesn't pay, he doesn't invest in the West, he doesn't invest in the East. Therefore, I condemn this incident and expect your support from the authorities. For one thing, I want the government to be in debt, the loans taken, and the absolute East to be aided and invested, and the people in the east to be considered human. If we do good projects in Ardahan and districts... we have stone houses in Ardahan. Ardahan houses, Hanak houses, Crazy houses, Posof houses, Damal houses, lake houses, and these houses will be earthquake-proof, and then our people, the expats will be back, and there will be human factors in our region, and our territory will rise, and I expect your support. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0065par0249	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the 546 Numbered Law proposal be changed to "Taxis to the Governorate of Istanbul" in their first and second jokes of Article 27, which stipulates to organise the interim Article 8 of the law on the regulation of public financing and debt management of number 4749. Altan Tan (Diyarbakir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0066par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0065par0257	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0067par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0065par0259	Altan Tan has asked for a statement on the motion, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0068par0261	Mr. President, members of parliament, one of the most important arguments in Turkey's struggle for democratisation was the return of central authority to the country. The whole world is moving in this direction -- and by all the world, we mean democratic countries -- the central powers are being transferred to the country, and local governments are being strengthened by handing over the initiative and decentralisation of the prince in Turkey a hundred years ago. Now, when the Metropolitan Law was passed, that was the main argument for the government's presentation, the better management of Turkey, and the transfer of authority to the ground. We supported it, it was the right step, but like they always do, when they're doing or doing the right thing, they're making another mistake again, or they're sabotaging the wrong by adding it to the right thing. And that's what happened this time, and when the law of the 30 major cities came to the House, I came to you, and I came to you, and I said, "What are we objecting to, what are the mistakes, what are all these?" But then again today, it's not so much wrong as it's still going down a wrong path, adding mistakes to these mistakes again. Dear friends, what are these mistakes, the latest mistakes? Again, by combining the so-called city general assembly and city councils, a city council, a single parliament, a right parliament, the powers of this assembly are left in a state of weakness, and the governor there, as a superior authority, is being appointed in almost a lot of issues. Dear friends, one of them is this Co-ordination called the County Co-ordination Board. The issue is still being debated, and look, after these elections, you will see that the mayors of the EC PARTY themselves will face the governors appointed by the EC PARTY. Another factor is that the local mining licenses are again passed through this co-ordinator governor, and that the powers related to geothermal resources, however wise, are still left to this governor and the center. Dear friends, on the one hand we strengthen the ground. You say, "On the other hand, you ally and calluse and gather all the powers at the center." It's a dead end. Now, let me give you a few examples: Turkey's most important agenda for recent corruption is zoning corruption. Normally, there is a change in the town council, or a new regulation in the city council, which confirms that, of course, before coming to the district and city councils, for example, the areas that will be opened to that development, if it is treasure or agricultural land, are being approved by relevant organizations, but at the point where we are here today, only the construction games, the development corruption, the zoning services in this area were left with a key part of the authorities related to TOİKİу, the Privatisation Administration, and the State's own government's own property, and the government's own government's own roads and its own roads, so that it can be made more comfortable. So, what's the function of the town halls and the city council? So in the beginning of my speech, as I pointed out, you give these powers first, look at the people, how beautiful things we're doing. You put them under the table, and then you take them back in the House, without notice, even in the city. Dear friends, I say again for him, after these elections, in 30 major cities -- whether he's from AKP or BDP, whether he's from CHP or MHP -- you'll see what problems will arise, and we'll work overtime here to make new laws and correct them. So come, make a proper arrangement from this day, before the elections, and do not leave today's work until tomorrow, and I am becoming democratic, and I am giving authority to the ground. Don't gather up and deceive the people in the center. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0069par0269	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 28: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 28 of the current law proposal in 546 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar The last sentence of Article 10 of Article 10 of Section 5355, dated 28-26/5/2005, has been changed as follows. The head of the national-level unit, which consists of all of its members, is the Undersecretary of the Interior. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 28 of the proposed law. We propose that the following statement be added to the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Salaamtin Karaahmetoğlu Kadir Gökmen Öğüt İlhan Demiröz ▪ The capital cities are represented by a councilman. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 28 of the proposed law proposal 546 rows from the text of the law. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Golden Tan Bengi Star Hasip Kaplan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0070par0297	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0069par0298	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0071par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0069par0300	Altan Tan has asked for a statement on the motion, Diyarbakır MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0072par0302	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, this winter has been especially freezing in the Diyarbakir region, and still these colds continue with a freezing cold that reaches especially at night minus 22, minus 23, for a long time. The public's biggest complaint at this time is valuable friends, power outages. Again, over and over again, and last year, we've voiced complaints about blackouts in the region, the public's complaints, but despite last year's commitment to the end of all these problems as of February, unfortunately, we're in a much worse situation than last year. Officials we talked to last year said that all arrangements have been made during this period, that all arrangements have been made in Diyarbakir, the power being given to the city primarily from high voltage lines, and that all preparations have been made and all preparations have been made for the distribution of electricity from the system from the high tension lines to the central interconnected system, and that all preparations have been made and have been made. However, while dear friends were waiting for a improvement again during this period, unfortunately, it was even worse, and at that time the system is already privatised from the three major tenders promised to enter the main city about electricity from the central system. The company that took this privatisation for him will then do it within the framework of new protocols. It has been postponed, and unfortunately, those two new important centers remained as they were. In distribution networks, of course, since the system couldn't be powered properly, because it couldn't be installed, all those other distribution networks remained the same, and no matter how much we bring this up, no matter how much we argue, there are two arguments. One of them, sir, is, you know, it's being done, it's getting ready, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Second, there is illegal electricity in the region. Agricultural irrigation has a large extra-systemal use of electricity. Thus, the existing lines are not enough. We face the answers. Dear friends, number one: You say we've been watering these people's fields for 40 years, and so far, this Mardin and Diyarbakır irrigation has just arrived at the Derik border, and Diyarbakır has yet, as the people say, no hits. All the dams... our Minister was just here. I wish he'd been here and answered again. So much money has been split, so many governments have not made the necessary investments in GAP, we've set aside a quadrillion budgets this year; we finish this year, we finish next year, we finish the year next year. When you say, "Dear friends, twelve years are over, you don't bring water to the land of the citizens, but the citizens are costing the world. If he'd already paid you back all of this, the product wouldn't be enough, and he'd have to be in debt as well. So please put an end to this matter of illegal electricity. Finish the citizen's channels first. Close to 40 percent of the numbers you're claiming now, that's about 40 percent of what you're saying is electricity, precious friends, because the irrigation channels don't run out. The other thing, again, is that there are always excuses, but the government's job is not to make excuses, it's to solve the problem. Is there electricity today or not? Or you'll have to find it and give it. If there are fugitives, you have to catch them. If they don't pay, you have to collect them. There's no way you can keep taking excuses. I'm paying my respects again.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0073par0309	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 28 of the proposed law. We propose that the following statement be added to the article. The capital cities are represented by a councilman. Ilhan Demiröz (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0074par0317	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0073par0318	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0075par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0073par0320	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0076par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made in Article 28 of Law 546. I salute you all with respect and love. When we look at Article 28 -- because it's short -- I want to read it right away -- they want to add the sentence to the first sentence of Article 10 of the Mahalli Governments Act: The Union's President, Undersecretary of the Interior for the national level of state private administration. We ask: Why is it? So you want to recheck the chosen ones with intent to appoint a member of the general administration? That's the first one. Second: You've built 30 provinces in the capital and removed the state's private administration. Then our provinces will not be represented in the 30 provinces in which you have made a major city in these national districts. I'd also like to say that our motion is that the council members here be members. I move to say this, friends: On May 22, 2005, you passed a State Special Administration Act 5302 concerning the special administrations of the province, and when this law was passed, it was stated that we are making a huge reform. We have passed a reformary law. Nine years have passed, and today we have closed the special administrations of this province in 30 provinces. I'd like to say that around 2,500 city council members have been relieved of their duties -- as of March 30th -- as well as to be given their properties and other employees to the city municipalities because their state's private administrations have been closed down. What I want to say here is that most of our friends who work in the county's private administrations have preferred the state's private administrations, so he's a local kid, he's not from the outside. He performed the circumcision of his child, performed his wedding, and lived in that area of the county's private administration all his life. So, what are you guys gonna do now? As of March 30, 2014, when this place is shut down, the city's private administration employees' lives will cease to exist. How does it stop? I want to tell you right away about my district that I'm being given a three-month deadline. Authorities in the Metropolitan Mayor's office or the city's municipality will look at these friends of ours in the state's private administration; they'll say after that, according to their party, they'll say: "We need you. What about those who don't need you?" Those who do not need to be sent to Ankara will be transferred to the pool and transferred from there. I would like to stress in particular that the victimization of our working friends in this way is very wrong, that such a situation is not pleasant. There is another issue, valued lawmakers, and this is: currently subcontractors working in the province's private administrations. For example, we have about 380 subcontractors in Bursa. And do you know where these workers work? 305 of these people are working in national education, and their duties are terminated as of June 30, 2014. They have no idea what they're going to do, where they're going, what authority they're going to apply to, and they're going to be a lot of victims. They've connected themselves to certain areas in this process, but today, unfortunately, these friends of ours are going to be in a very difficult position. Another difficult situation is with the city's private administrations with general parliamentary approvals such as 305 people work in the services of national education, and as of 30 March 2014, the services of our friends in these 30 counties will end and national education will take care of itself. I express that this is wrong, and I offer you all my respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0077par0334	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 28 of the current law proposal in 546 rows. The last sentence of Article 10 of Article 10 of Section 5355, dated 28-26/5/2005, has been changed as follows. The head of the national-level unit, which consists of all of its members, is the Undersecretary of the Interior. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0078par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0077par0344	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0079par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0077par0346	Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0080par0348	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding Article 28 of Law Proposal 546. As the National Movement Party Group, I salute you. Now, this brings an arrangement in the county's private administration. When I say "special administration," I want to say that I also have the Secretary General of the State Special Administration, who is in my constituency. Adana Governor Cos, who said a word to his citizen that I'm looking for even here, but is still being held there by your government, and he has a general secretary, the Chief Secretary of State of the Special Administration, who works there, he is the deputy governor; he works there; he is the deputy governor there; he is now the general secretary of the State Special Administration in Adana. Here he is in the Adana media, the clever coachber is on trial for severe punishment. There's a motive here and everything. Now, you all know the governor, I don't need to tell you about the governor of Adana, a governor with a steady agenda in Adana. We've made several claims about it. In fact, your own MP, the AK PARTY MP, said: "Ya, this is making us listen." You didn't care. In this regard, the 40larite, which he was governor of, starting with Aksaray, takes the same contractor to wherever he goes, until Aydın, Adana. Although we have expressed claims that Syrian refugees were given 50 trillion pounds of business directly there, that they were given a person by negotiation, that they were given to such individuals, unfortunately, you don't care about them. I mean, I'm not gonna go into any details. Stealing and corruption are no longer a concern to your government. So the nation's goods are gone, the citizens' goods are squandered, the trillions are gone... so someone's moving the goods, someone's going far enough to swear at this nation when they're taking away this nation's quadrillions and billions of dollars, but there's a government that declares them philanthropic businessmen. But what did the county's private administration do when they did it? He was taking services to villages, villages. Today, these peasants are after their bread, they're after their vaccine, they're after their children, they're worried about getting their daughter married, they're interested in buying a shoe, they're not interested in buying your child a dress. Now, our villagers are in serious trouble. In the past, services were used to be taken to these villages through their private administrations. By means of the Metropolitan Law you have brought, these services will be eliminated. Now they're connected to the municipalities. This is where I ask you: when a mayor of Adana has 50,000 voters in his dorm district, he has 300 voters in Pozantian's Mountaindibi, 500 voters in Kadımlı, Doğanl, Saimbeyli. When I take him to Eylül, Gerdibi, Aladağ, Güçsofulu, Büçeli, Karaisalı, Küteli, Küçli, Güvenç, there are three villages in Adana until I take him to service to all these villages, there are all the voters of the villages who can go to choose here. None of this was taken into account, even though we said so. Now, our peasants are in serious trouble. Today, you killed farming, once -- for example -- he sold 1 kilogram of cherries in Pozant, Aladağ, Saimbeyli, Karaisa, taking 4 litres of gasoline, taking diesel. Now, he can't buy half a liter of diesel to sell 1 kilo of cherries. That goes for all the other products. You've killed farming, you've killed livestock, the peasant has already become uninhabitable in his village. He says, "Can I go to Adana, or go to the big city, where I can find a job at a subcontractor? Now, he's having trouble making a living there, too, but with the law you brought him, he's no longer able to live in the villages. First he went to the city, to find a job here at the subcontractor company, here at minimum wage, but there at the point of sustaining his life, he went into serious trouble, trying to get back to the village. You've finished village work, and with the new law you've brought in, nearly 16,000 villages have turned into neighborhoods. Now, in the Saimbeyli of Adana, in the Karaisan, in Aladağ, in the mountains of Pozanti, in the foot of the Toros, there is no difference between a peasant and a peasant living in the center of the city. Adana will pay for the same water at the center, and he who sits at the foot of the Toros will pay for the same water. You've brought a lot of taxes, about 20 to 25. What do you want with these peasants? These villagers voted for you, and it's like you're taking revenge on them. Give the money you gave to thieves and corrupts to these villages and let our villages rest, dear lawmakers, but, no, you've forgotten these villagers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope the peasant forgets you, too.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit02spe0081par0354	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0081par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 546. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 29 that I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "after the sentence" in Article 29 of the proposed law proposal 546, be replaced by "after the sentence." Pervin Buldan Bengi Star Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-nine of the proposed law. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the article. The rights losses of the neighborhoods that have been lost have been reversed until today. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanolu Izzet Çittin Sedef Small Aydın Agha Ayyadın İlhan Demiröz Kadir Gökmen Öğmen Öğümün Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law, which is currently held in 546 rows, shall be replaced in the following way by Article 29 of the framework. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Alim Işım The following sentence was added after the first sentence of "The State Statistical Institution of Turkey's President" in the article 6 of Article 5393, dated 29-3/7/2005 and published in Article 12 of the City Code. "This sentence also applies to towns where residents have been converted to the rights, responsibilities and privileges of the forest village while they are in the country." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0082par0031	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0081par0032	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0083par0033	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0081par0034	Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0084par0036	Mr. President, I have received word on the motion we've made. On this occasion, I salute you all. There is a provision in this article concerning the fact that the Allecity Law and the forest villagers are not deprived of their former rights. It's a positive arrangement, but it's incomplete. We need to look out for the forest villagers a little bit more, make a little more use of forest goods, the sale of forest goods. Because now the forest villages are coming out completely, and the forest villages are becoming a small number of households too small to be called villages. We need to keep these places alive, we need to protect, we need to protect the people who live there, they need to heal a little more economically. Again, now there's a problem with the change of the Law on Local Governments, with the emergence of the All-city Law, with the sale of the land of treasure in the plain as well as with the forest villagers. The forest, 2/B land sales, both the sale of forest land and the sale of treasury land, had already been passed, and then you issued what we call the Metropolitan Law. Now, according to the 2/B Act, will the villagers, the zoning, be considered the area within the entire city's border or the village status again? There's an ambiguity here. So first you have to set it up with a law, and then you have to set up a sales system according to this. At the same time, the villagers don't know how to buy these fields, how to buy them for how much. There's a lot of trouble with that. If the price is held high, it is impossible for the villagers to buy these fields. The farmer doesn't make any money, the peasant doesn't make any money. If these rail prices are kept high, and these high prices are put on the farmer, it is impossible for farmers to buy these fields. So, who buys these fields? Those who save money in shoe boxes buy these fields. That's why there's a fuss and a fight. So the peasant never, ever lets anyone else plow his own field, let anyone else take it. I'm saying this because we've been through it, we've seen it. That's why we need to set up a law on this right now, to comfort the villagers who are going to buy the land of treasure, who are going to take the land of treasure. Again, March 30th is the deadline for the sale of treasured land related to the 2/B Act. This date needs to be extended as soon as possible. Again, the farmer must be given a period of time; this is under the authority of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers needs to assess it, do a study on it, comfort our villagers. Now, we will sell you these fields at high prices to a peasant who is tired of the problems of diesel, of fertilizer, who can't make any money out of what he's planting, who can't afford it. If you say so, the peasant can't buy it. And since he can't, as I just said, those who make free money, those who make money in the gold trade, those who collect freckles in the shoe boxes will be willing to buy these fields. Therefore, as peasants and farmers -- I say on behalf of the villagers and farmers -- we will never allow such a thing. For him, the government must take immediate action concerning this, enforcing a law on this, setting reasonable prices. See, every time I say: You have reset the VAT in gold, in silver, in ornaments. So the farmer's biggest cost is fertilizer, reset the VAT in the tank. How many times have I offered you a law motion, a question motion, and every time you refuse it, no, sir, it brings additional burdens to the state. Well, don't ornaments, gold traders bring additional burdens to the state? Shouldn't they pay you taxes in this country? So, friends, please, let's take precautions on this, make arrangements, let's make sure that the people who really plant this field, who work this field, who work farming, take these fields. You'll get caught up in it. If God sheds blood to show it, it's on your back. That's why we need to arrange this as soon as possible, to eliminate the uncertainty about it. Instead of making laws for those who hide money in shoe boxes, let's make laws for the good of the villagers, for the good of the forest villagers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0085par0046	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Twenty-nine of the proposed law. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the article. "Till today, the loss of rights in the neighborhoods that have lost their rights has been reversed." Sedef Small (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0086par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0085par0055	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0087par0056	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0085par0057	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0088par0059	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 29 of Law Proposal 546. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, from their point of view, you can divide people according to their understanding, according to their beliefs, or by any criteria you want, but in the final analysis, people are divided into two, those with consciences and those without them. If we don't see what's happening in this country and still have something bleeding in us, then we have no conscience. If we don't see the father who has to carry the dead body of his child on his back and there's no storm in us, we don't have a conscience. If the 40-day baby Frost, who hasn't even been registered in the population, dies of cold in a country, and our conscience doesn't bleed again, then we're not even human. I know, and I'm sure there's something in all of us that's broken off somewhere. We said, "Something's wrong." We said, "Something needs to be changed." Look, some of the provisions of this law we're discussing are disaster and emergency management. After two years of earthquakes, there are still unresolved victims, and there are still people living in containers without electricity, without water. These people are our people, our conscience, the responsibility of every congressman under this roof. If you want to create the best disaster and emergency administration in the world, make the most perfect disaster law in the world, if we don't hear the scream of the disaster victim in the van, if we don't see the father carrying the dead body of his child on his back, if we don't put ourselves in the place of the mother who lost her baby, then there's something missing if we don't have a conscience. There's these kids on one side, there's mothers killing themselves because they can't buy food for their kid, there's millions of dollars on the other side, there's shoe boxes, there's cash boxes. My conscience does not accept it, nor does the conscience of this people, and I believe that your conscience does not accept it. On the one hand, allegations of corruption and bribery, hard to believe poverty; on the one hand, intolerance to the smallest slogan, even protesting with a shoebox; on the other hand, incredible pressure, the flight of future democracy stories; unfortunately, it doesn't make a country run by democracy, nor does democracy come to a country with purely insane projects. Sometimes you have to stop and ask the question: What kind of country do we live in? What kind of life and freedom do we offer our people? Where do we spend the taxes we collect from them? What kind of country do we leave for posterity? These questions need to be asked from this platform. Not only the opposition MPs, but the ruling party MPs have to come and ask these questions from the bench. Dear lawmakers, the country we leave to tomorrow should be a country that exists not in shoeboxes, but in freedom and prosperity. The country we're going to leave to the future should be a country that respects the right to the environment, not an understanding that sacrifices its sites to villas. Our legacy to the future should be a country ruled by real democracy, not by censorship, ban, oppression, but by real democracy because we owe such a country to our future. This debt is on all of us. Look, Ugur Mumcu, one of the most honorable names in Turkish press history, says: "People are not only responsible for what they talk about, but also for what they shut up. For whatever reason, we do not have the right to ignore this responsibility, we cannot ignore this debt, and we will not be able to shut up.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0089par0066	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "after the sentence" in Article 29 of the proposed law proposal 546, be replaced by "after the sentence." Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0090par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0089par0074	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0091par0075	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0089par0076	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0092par0079	Dear friends, this is jungle law, a forest matter. Of course it's a bag. Anything in a bag. It's obvious that tonight, Mr. President will approve the Internet law and throw the ball at the crown. Hopefully tomorrow -- this bag won't be without the Internet -- will take steps to soften those prohibitions, taking into account the view of opposition parties. That's our wish. Now, let's get down here. You've built major cities. Wasn't Istanbul the capital city, brother? What happened to the woods? What about the villas that were built in those woods, the pauses, the decision-making, the court decision-making? It all worked out because of the bag of laws. They solved the land disputes, removed the destruction of the ruined villas, and called it, 2/B, and took what was in the hands of the citizen. Why don't you put your hands on the jungle peasant? Touch it, and hear it. Don't think that every day he sings his jungle song, his song, his village, his country. For some, maybe. But since the beginning of the republic, we've had the Ministry of the Forest, and it hasn't solved the goat-wood problem yet. And he can't, friends. Some say it's useful in the forest. Some say it's bad. This country hasn't been able to solve it for a century. Now, the thing is, when the country's a neighborhood, does it become a jungle villager or does it lose its qualifications? What a thought, what a kindness! So much so that this government thinks of its citizens that they take over the city, take over the city, build the neighborhood, take over the city, get rid of it. You take the forest emvalence once in a while, you take it, in two years... he says. The woodsmen would explain that very well. The woodsman's got a hole, so let's put a law on that bag of law to protect him. Guys, that's not how you solve the woodsman's problem. He's got trouble with the forest map, he's got trouble with the cadastro, he's got trouble with the treasure. The forest villagers are all enemies of the Turkish Republic's treasure and forest, the defendant. Thousands of cases in Turkey are these cases, my friends. So, shall I tell you about the blessings of the forest, the beauty of agriculture, here and here? How can I talk about it? According to the European Union's law of harmony, the forest peasant must build his barn a mile out of the village, but it's a forest a mile away. He says it's forbidden in the forest. What's he gonna do now? Isn't there a cure for this? Now, fortunately, friends, good things happen. For example, we celebrate Mr. Hussein Avni Karslioğlu, who was elected King of Lahana in Oldenburg, from here, friends, an important event.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0093par0086	What's up?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0092par0087	He was elected King of Cabbage in Germany. You know, this is a very important event. Don't throw it away, it's not that simple.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0093par0088	He sold cabbage?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0092par0089	And I thought, "Well, there's a king's contest going on, and I did a good search, and then I found out that there's a contest going on, not a king's contest, but a king's contest. 115 women participated in 105 products, and that's how Urban City does the isot contest. We're looking for our best sorrows, and so on, everyone introduces their products in a different way, my friends. We don't think we'd fit that bag into the law if we understood the pain of the forest peasant. That's why we wish our motion to accept it.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0094par0092	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "after the declaration" in Article 30 of the current law proposal 546 shall be replaced by the expression "after the declaration." Pervin Buldan Hasip Tiger Bengi Star Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 30 of the proposed law. We would like to add the expression "aids to the houses of the houses" after the statement "watching camps" at the end of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz Balık Köse Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed law of 546 rows be replaced in the following way by Article 30 of the framework. Muharrem Varlı Kemalettin Yılmaz Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Seyfettin Yilmaz Scholar Light Born Belen Emin Çınar "The first joke of Article 10 of Article 5520, dated 30 - 13/6/2006 and on the end of the term "and on the end of the youth centers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports" and on the end of the bender of the institutional tax law (c) "and on the record of receipts for services and aid from the youth centers of Youth and Sports Ministry." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0095par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0094par0119	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0096par0120	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0094par0121	Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP, demanding a statement on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0097par0124	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Party for Action on Article 30 of Law Proposal 546. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Under Article 30, I find and support the tax exemption from the youth centers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the institutions brought to youth and Boy Scout camps. But we have something to say about our tax system, about tax justice. Tax justice is the social dimension of modern taxation. It is impossible to say that our tax system has a fair structure today. Tax justice is even more corrupt from 2002 to today. In 2002, the rate of income and income taxes to tax revenues was 33.78 per cent reduced to 24.48 per cent by the end of 2013. On the other hand, companies now pay less taxes. In 2002, taxes paid by taxpayers amounted to 10.05 per cent of tax revenues, while in 2013 the rate was reduced to 8.99 per cent. The tax collection of income and property taxes from January 2013 to October 2013 increased only 8.5 per cent compared to the previous period. At the same time, however, the real increase in direct taxes is 1.5 per cent, while the real increase in indirect taxes is 14.3 per cent. In 2002, the percentage of direct taxes in tax revenues was 32.3 per cent, while in 2013 it was reported to have dropped to 30.9 per cent. This causes the lower income group and the upper income group to pay the same tax on the same consumption clause and undermine tax justice. In this scope, the OTV from oil and natural gas in particular increased by 32 per cent, the bank and insurance treatment tax has increased 13.2 per cent. The income tax collection increased 12.2 per cent during January 2013, but the collection of corporate taxes has not increased. In fact, when it's cleared of inflation, there's a real 6.5 percent reduction. The Tahakkuk collection rate was 91.4% in 2002, while as of October 2013, the rate was reduced to 82.2%. As of October 2013, the collection rate of income tax based on the statement was 43.4%, while the tax rate of institutions based on the declaration was 29.9 per cent. The Tahakkuk collection table shows that an efficient and fair tax system does not exist in Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers promised and promised to fight three things when the AKP government, which completed its 11th year and went to 12th, came to power. What were those three things? One: poverty. Two: corruption. Three: bans. Let's go back and see what happened. The hunger limit will be $1,300, net minimum wage is $846, and it will be no more than a claim that people who collect food from garbage cans, people who look for food in the marketplaces, people who can't pay their credit card debt, are fighting poverty every day in a country where suicides are growing. As for the second foot of corruption, the investigation launched on December 17th revealed only the tip of the corruption iceberg, and there was a mix-up. Thousands of police officers and prosecutors conducting the investigation have been relocated, exiled. In the homes of respected ministers, money-counting machines, safes, millions of dollars, $4.5 million in shoe boxes in a bank manager's house, and the respected ministers who resigned or were taken out of their homes, we have eliminated the bad ones from behind. The mention of the words of the city minister's knowledge and approval of the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister must be an indication of how far the AKP governments have gone in the fight against corruption. All of this, let alone the government's success in fighting corruption, is a sign that the government is involved in corruption. I don't know if there's any need to say anything about it. On Tuesday last week, Mr. Prime Minister had to admit how he had ordered censorship, saying "Hello," Fatih. All of this shows that the AKP government's expiration date has come and gone. The great Turkish nation says the AKP will send the AKP to its place in the political cemetery in the March 30th elections, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0098par0138	We buried most of them, we buried most of them, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0099par0139	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 30 of the proposed law. After the expression "substantiation camps" at the end of the article, we would like to add the expression "aids to the houses of the mosques." Flood Köse (Sorum) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0100par0146	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0099par0147	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0101par0148	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0099par0149	It's the Flood Köse, Corrum MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0102par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, last week, the week before that, a month ago, three months ago, six months ago, last year at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and commissions, we saw the insult, we saw the violence, the flying kick, the punching attacks, but unfortunately, we didn't see a single reprimand from Prime Minister Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0103par0153	There's incentives, incentives.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0102par0154	Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has legitimized violence by denying, praising, praising, rewarding those who use democratic rights, by speaking, accusing those who exercise the right to block the tradition of parliaments, as well; rational, logical, and consciences have been silenced. The Prime Minister, who does not drop the freedom of opinion and thought, has no right to anyone's opinion, to freedom, to impose violence on everyone, if necessary, and how painful it is. My dear friends, there is a change in Article 30 of Law 546 today. With the change to be made... there is a change from the tax exemption of institutions to institutions that provide widespread religious education for the chairman of the Religious Affairs... to youth centers and Boy Scout camps in the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In our motion that the Commission and the Minister have not just joined, we also want the immunity of the institutional tax to be recognised here and recognised in the donations to be recognised by us, as well. Unfortunately, the Commission and the Ministry rejected it, and we believe that our motion will soon be rejected with your votes. My esteemed President and fellow lawmakers, for some time now and as a result of long struggles, the belief in the Aflammacy is no longer a secret belief, but there has been a great deal of pain for which the cost has been paid. We, whether we are Alevi, whether we are Sunni, whether we are Christians, whether we are Jews, whether we are non-believers, want equal respect for our beliefs, and we want nothing else; we want everyone to do their worship freely in Turkey; we want secular democratic understanding of the problems of the Alevis and to seek proper solutions to the demands of Alevi. Our Flaming Citizens don't have to get their beliefs and culture approved by anyone. The fate of the Cemevs can never, ever be tied to the Foundation of Religion. The Alevis will never, ever allow someone else to describe themselves, not ever, to describe themselves, not to be described by the Dianet in the direction of a certain sect of power and power. Dear friends, our Alevi citizens want to live hand in hand and brotherly. If they say the mosques are our sanctuary, then it's up to us to call you the house. We must not bring forty waters from forty brooks, we must not be hypocrites, we must be sincere, we must not do religious politics. We need to solve their problems in accordance with their demands; we need to solve them, not by ignoring them, exclusion, crushing, silence, and even by burning them, as we have seen many times in the past years; by respecting them, by trying to understand them, by hugging them, and by reaching out for their brotherly hands, we need to be able to solve them. We need to know that your belief in the flame doesn't need anyone's kindness. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0104par0162	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement "after the declaration" in Article 30 of the current law proposal 546 shall be replaced by the expression "after the declaration." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0105par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0104par0170	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0106par0171	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0107par0172	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0104par0173	I'm reading the reason: The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of the proposed 546 Orders of the Law, we propose and propose that it be replaced in the form of three years. Pervin Buldan Bengi Star Altan Tan Congressmans, since the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, I'm going to process them together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to those who have motions, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 31 of the proposed law. We propose that the phrase "5 years" in the article be changed to "10 years." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğütın Selahmetın Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Alim Işım Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0108par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0104par0203	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0109par0204	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0104par0205	Reşat Right, the slap MP who wants to speak on the same motions.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0110par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from you regarding the motion on Article 31 of the Law Proposal 546. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I salute our Istanbul MP, who lies in Sincan Prison unfairly and unlawfully, the heroic man, Engin Alan. From the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Hopefully, injustice and lawlessness will end, and Engin Alan, like other lawmakers, will return to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and continue his work. Honourable lawmakers, of course, the AKP government has found the easy way out. We're dealing with a painting in the form of a painting. I mean, bags of laws coming in, bags of stuff being put in the law. I'm guessing there's probably two more bags of law coming in soon -- as far as we know right now -- two more bags of law coming in, and there's gonna be a lot of stuff in there. There have been many flaws in the laws passed in the laws issued by parliament in the past years. So, without discussion, the lack of the laws created by the fact that the parties were not fully heard was being filled or completed from time to time. Now, as we can see, there's some stuff in this bag of laws. Of course, this clause is also about housing owners, about housing assistance. In order to own a dwelling, we live in an environment where people have been cut off from themselves, their salaries, and some may have taken advantage of it, but unfortunately most of them have not, and money is being returned. Of course, housing, home, is a very important factor for human beings. Thus, people want to own homes, they want to own homes, but the reality is that our country is also at the head of countries that have suffered severe damage at the point of the earthquake. The province of Tokat, where I am a deputy, is also located on the North Anatolian fault line. I'd like to consider the law we're discussing here. In particular, the Northern Anatolian fault line is the top of our country's most important fault lines. From Lake Van to the Sea of Marmara. In general, it passes through many settlements. This is, of course, a place of intense pain. As you know, in recent years, or in the last century, or more, there have been devastating earthquakes in the last thousand years. In the beginning, we see a period of intense suffering on that line, as did our Tokat, our Erbaa, our Niksar, and our Tasova. However, suffering must be taught. In recent times there have been earthquakes in Adapazari, earthquakes in Van, and suffering? We can't exactly say that he was hugged, but the fact is, there are certain measures that must be taken. In the Black Sea Region, an earthquake-resistant test must be taken, especially the official buildings in the districts and districts on this fault line, including homes and buildings. Look, we can't say anything that's been done too much so far. A variety of laws have been passed, and they're going to restructure these laws or build new buildings, and buildings that aren't earthquake-proof go down fast, but we can't say that it's exactly done. So, on this fault line, I especially want to say about my own knowledge, there's not much serious work being done in the places where the fault line has been passed in our Tokat. And that, of course -- I mean, hopefully there won't be an earthquake, and there won't be any trouble, but -- respected lawmakers, the measures taken after an earthquake, or after a great deal of pain, are of no use at all. Our country faces many problems. Corruption is mentioned today, bribes are mentioned, favorism is mentioned, police stations are mentioned, judicial appointments are mentioned, but our Turkey also has some facts. If the farmer is miserable, if the officer is miserable, or if our tradesman wants some laws to come out, it's especially true that people in a number of cities, such as the Northern Anatolia fault line, in settlements, want to make sure that their lives or homes where they live don't have to live for much longer or have any problems. In that way, we are bound to respond to those righteous requests. So, all the settlements in the North Anatolian fault line, in those areas, must be reviewed very quickly, and the buildings that must be destroyed must be destroyed and replaced by new ones, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0111par0216	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who wants a word on the same proposals.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0112par0219	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Regarding the tapes that have been reflected in the press recently, one issue, unfortunately, has not received the attention it deserves in the press and in public. A meeting with the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Energy, and Taner Yildiz (Taner) on the Alo Conqueror line, unfortunately, has escaped attention these days when the corruption and corruption operation are being discussed. What was that interview? Let's just remind you. Hello, Fatih says to the Minister: Then I ask you. It's about you. You're talking to our Prime Minister. I mean, before it's too late, before it gets too dark, there's now... like, we've never seen Uludere this year. You know, we didn't see it as TVs, and Taner Star says it's true. Alo Fatih continues: "Thank God, we have not seen Uludere, from television or from newspapers. And he took care of her, meaning the Prime Minister -- he said: 'Fatih, they have barely gathered a thousand people.' Without the media in the background, they can hardly gather a thousand people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are facing a tragic situation, indeed, in a tragic event. I understand your efforts to cover up corruption, I understand your efforts to cover up the bribes, but in a case where 34 of our citizens have died and the state has killed its citizens, and in a case the Prime Minister specifically told the public, this will not remain in Ankara's dark depths. Now, if the Prime Minister tells the media, media bosses, general editors, turn it off, ignore it. If he says, we are at the end of the line. We have witnessed to this day how much the consciences of families living in Uludere have bled, but we know that closure and blackout have made the consciences of families in Uldere much heavier. Justice can't be spoken of in a country where a state is instructed by the Prime Minister to prevent its citizens from seeking justice, where they will claim justice. Like... I'd like to share this word with you. On April 21, 2009, one of our political elders said: "If today our judges, prosecutors, can perform their duties without any pressure or threat, it is a reassuring development. Who would be bothered by that? Why? Who would try to stop it, why? See, there are very heavy, very serious allegations, and there are accusations against our Constitution that are criminal according to our laws. Let him judge, let the law work, let the white and the black come out. By clouding the process, no one will get anywhere by threatening judges, prosecutors. It is Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan who said that on 21 April 2009. Then in many cases, Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, and Prime Minister in many cases, let the prosecutors and the prosecutors do their job. At this point, we live in regret over a time when the Prime Minister blames judges, prosecutors, everyone involved. There is no hiding this exemplary situation from the world's public. Of course, with the majority of AKP lawmakers here, you can change any law you want, you can do anything you want, but know that we live in a world where the Justice and Development Party will not be met by any country from Turkey as long as the search for justice, the search for democracy, the search for human rights continues. Therefore, we AKP MP have to invite our friends to common sense. My dear friends, from abroad, it's not what we seem. From abroad, all international organisations, human rights organizations, pardon organizations, the United Nations are following Turkey very carefully. Thanks to you, Turkey will be a country that will either succeed in the fight for democracy or fail in the fight for democracy. We want, together, to take Turkey much further, but first you need a change of heart, you need to do this; you need to be discreet, conscientious and fair, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0113par0224	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 31 of the proposed 546 Orders of the Law, we propose and propose that it be replaced by the term "five years" (three years). Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0114par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0113par0232	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0115par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0113par0234	Mr. Buldan, am I making you read the reason?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0116par0235	Motive.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0113par0236	I'm reading the reason: It has been a long time since the amendment and the provision of housing assistance were determined to be paid to rights owners as five years. This period is intended to be reduced to three years max. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 32: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed 546 Orders of the Law be changed into the terms of the 32th Amendment. Pervin Buldan Bengi Star Altan Tan Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-two of the proposed law. We would like to change the terms of the terms of the article to 1 0 years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğütın Selahmetın Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz The signatures of the other motion are: Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemallettin Yilmaz Alim Light Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0117par0265	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0113par0266	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0118par0267	We disagree, Mr. President. Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0119par0270	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on Article 32 of Law Proposal 546, and I salute your grand delegation. Dear lawmakers, as you know, recently the Organization of Journalists Without Borders announced the 2014 World Freedom of State Index. According to this, Turkey was ranked in the 154th place among 180 countries. As you may also know, Turkey has been counted among the upside-down countries in the World Freedom Report of Freedom House, the International Association for Human Rights and Press Freedom, which has been published over the past month. Just the other day, the International Committee for Protection of Journalists said Turkey continues to pressure critical news and commenting journalists, and no one was surprised by these reports, these evaluations. Media members were laid off because of the news they did, some writers were unable to write, no one was surprised. Voice recordings were released, the government's heavy pressure on the media itself came out, no one was surprised. The Prime Minister scolded journalists for not liking the question, and no one was surprised. Now I'm asking you, is this the usual situation in a common democracy? Is it possible to swallow that? Is this the freedom of Turkey? Is this the kind of democracy we consider worthy of our people? Will democracy come to this country by banning the Internet, using open or veiled censorship to the press? These reports and these questions should not be ignored because they reveal what kind of country we live in. Because what we need is not a media that ignores criticism, corruption and injustices, but the voice of its owner; what we need is not a fine journalist who's turned to a slap boy; what we need is a media that's subject to censorship; what we need is self-censorship; what we need is a free media that's loyal to the truth, despite everything else, who advocates professional morality. If we want to raise the bar for democracy, if we're truly sincere about universal human rights, if we respect the right to public information, to learn the truth, we have to respect freedom of the press, because it's corruption that's free in a country where the press isn't free, it's lies, it's lies. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, freedom is not where we're going with the penguin media. To tolerate pressure on the media, my dear, it was like that in the past, but what can we do? It's not a democracy. We have freed you from your collars. It is an authoritarian government, a quiet society, where you will be asked to create a media that is now aligned with instructions, by shutting down Parliament television to the opposition. We all have to stand up bravely to that understanding of governance, but the media must stand up first. From reporter to editor, every journalist must demonstrate that criticism is a right and freedom and that the right to ask questions on behalf of the public cannot be stopped. Every journalist should not forget that Abdi İpekçi (Abdi), Uður Mumcu (Usa Mumcu) carry the honorable inheritance of Cetin Emeç. Mr. President, dear MPs, this painting is not a bright picture. I'm afraid the media hasn't given a good test since the trip. Of course, it can be suggested that there are many reasons, but none of these reasons justify what has happened, no reason to justify what has been done, and there is no doubt that in a country where the media is controlled, censored, self-censored, forced, Internet freedom drowned, democracy, and the state of law can't be read. Eventually, I say this structure will have to change, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0120par0278	Thank you. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, has asked for the same motions.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0121par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there is an extension of the grant of housing in this article, regarding the transfer to the Treasury. Unfortunately, when it comes to citizens, you're very stingy, but when it comes to allies, it opens up. On this occasion, I would like to point out that Mr. Prime Minister has described corruption in his statement on the events that have occurred since December 17th. From him, I'd like to present some issues to your opinion. He says in his statement, Mr. Prime Minister: I understand when it's called corruption: Does the government's vault be robbed or not? (I mean, if we don't leave the vault of the state and we make it easy for the private sector, it's not corruption if we do some of the work the easy way. Well, if the money that's supposed to be in the government's vault isn't in, then is there corruption, according to the Prime Minister's definition? It's happening. So if the money doesn't come in... come on, we've crossed the other side, there's money in the pool. I say: If the tax must be paid is being pardoned, for example, Minister, then is it corruption according to the Prime Minister's definition? We have to get tax; we didn't get it, we scratched it. We got it from the other citizen, he didn't give it to us. There's a delay, he's late due to the main money. Now, we said, "Come, let the Court supervise; repentance, there is tax privacy here," he said. I don't think there's any financial friends in the back. So, what's it gonna be? You're coming in... and I'm just saying in 2012, it's open information, it's 2012 that the Tax Control Board has studied... and I can bring the others back, but I'll give you the figures: there's roughly 500 million major coins in history. He's got 50 million left, but there's about a billion TLs - interest, latency interest. He's only taken 50 million of this, 900 million or so... it's just the money that's been erased, look, the amount of tax that's been erased is in agreement, friends. You cut a billion, 50 million, 950 million... now, is that corruption or not? According to the Prime Minister's description, he's out of the state. We say, "Let's look into it." By God, don't touch it. Who's got hands? I've asked you many times here, who is tax privacy for? To explain to the third party. What about administrative investigations, privacy when the inspector examines something? I mean, who's going to study who? And I find that definition compelling. Well, back then, I agree with the Prime Minister's definition. I continue: Is this corruption when the money in TUPRASH is not in the government's treasury, when it is in its true value? Yeah, then it's corruption. Or, let's just say, you're opening the tender for TEDAS, and you're running out of $1 billion and $100 million. The company that gets the contract doesn't do the job, but burns its collateral, burning 30 million liras -- 50 million liras, whatever -- as collateral. Why is it burning? Because he knows there's going to be a retrial on that, and he's going to get the same firm, and he's going to get the $1 billion, 100 million, 50-50, 550 million, the same company, 500 million in profit. So, is this 500 million corruption or not?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0122par0287	No, it's a coincidence, it's a coincidence!
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0121par0288	So let's go back to the same firm and give him this tender. So, is that corruption? Corruption by the Prime Minister's definition. Here, when it comes to throwing money into the pool... we have, look, our friends read from time to time. You don't transfer a citizen's credit card payment, there are suicides, divorces because he can't pay his credit card debt. But our friends who are going to find money in the pool, they're full, they're not growing, they're producing nine formulas in the tapes we're listening to, 60 from here, 30 from here, 10 from the bank... Well, well, if they had the limit, they'd give it anyway, they'd make it up. Is what's done here corrupt or not? Is there corruption that the public bank does when it's taking interest from us, when it's making public money, when it's making it easier for someone? It's happening. So, we don't have to go to the trouble of covering it up. If there's anything here, let's investigate, and let's let the innocents be debriefed, and let the innocents be blamed, according to the law of innocence. On this occasion, he says, "Let's give the citizen a little more time without impounding his money."
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0123par0292	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the 546 Orders of the Law shall be changed into five-year-olds, which are included in the 32th article of the proposed Law. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0124par0299	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0123par0300	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0125par0301	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit03spe0123par0302	I'm reading the reason: As a result of the ads issued on the grant of housing in the amendment, it was intended that the purchases not requested should be submitted to the treasure seven years after the release of the last list published in the official newspaper. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0123par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 546. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-three of the proposed law. We propose that the term "100%" in the article be changed to "150%." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğütın Selahmetın Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration "100% " in Article 33 of the current law proposal 546 will be replaced by" 200%. " Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "These payments will be met by the Treasury within two months following the temporary clause added to Article 33 and Article 5774 of the proposed law proposal 546 rows." We provide and propose that the sentence be added. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Alim Işım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0126par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0123par0027	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0127par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0123par0029	Adana MP Ali Halaman, Adana MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0128par0031	Dear President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised our motion on Article 33 of Proposition 546. On behalf of my group, I salute you. Of course, that's 546 rows of Law Proposal 53. The content of Article 33 is usually related to the 100 per cent increase of the months attached to themselves and their children, from the successful athletes in our country, who will be given the title of the state athlete, who will be given the title, because they are 65 years old or dead. Therefore, I thank the government for bringing such an offer to the dead athletes who represent our country in this matter, because of the increase of the wages left to their children -- as well as the government, which we desire for the nationalist Movement Party -- in this regard, he has done well. But again, I want to say something more about these athletes: this bag of legislation is widely perceived in Anatolia, so it is perceived as a law that is defined according to their wishes. But, in the name of this athlete, in the name of sports, in Turkey, it's two years, especially four years out of the faculty of social sciences, from the university... they're called more of a body-building child. But there's no law proposal to the inside of this offer, to appoint them, to pay for them. So, as this teacher, we ask the government to appoint friends who have graduated from two years, four years old, as soon as possible. Again, there are many bodybuilders who, especially in municipalities, work as athletes in institutions and organizations that are also associated with the public, who sometimes seem to work part-time, in the streets, in public sports. We ask the government to move their rights to the agenda again. And because of the fact that the law has come up -- because it doesn't embrace a lot of general, social concepts -- for the last ten days -- you know, when we go to our hometown, I want to make it feel that the people of our country, the farmers, the banker, the banker, especially these last few days, the government-based trade, because of the corruption of the trade, and because of the trade in the trade of the trade of the trades, and because of the exchange of loans -- are very eager, at the point of solving the victims of people who are using loans. If this bag is based on the needs of the law, if we want to correct them, it's because of the government's bad administration, so if the trade in Turkey isn't going well, then I think it's because the government doesn't handle foreign policy well. And in order to prevent such victims, if the bag is a solution, I expect such offers to be made, with respect and love to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0129par0038	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of "100%" in Article 33 of the current law proposal 546 rows be replaced by "200%" Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0130par0045	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0129par0046	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0131par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0129par0048	I'm reading the reason: Those who have not been appointed as sports advisors because of the change in their 65-year-old years or because they have passed away have been expected to increase the monthly allowance of their spouses and children according to Article 4 of this Law. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-three of the proposed law. We propose that the expression "100%" in the article be changed to "15%." Ilhan Demiröz (Bursa) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0132par0057	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0129par0058	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0133par0059	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0134par0060	A Remembrance of the Mighty Sky.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0129par0061	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0135par0063	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 33 of the bag bill. Before I begin my speech, I would like to wish our police who were stabbed and killed while trying to prevent domestic violence in Maltepe Gülsuyu neighborhood to the mercy of Mehmet Emin Aydın. This is the most beautiful neighborhood of the Anatolian Bank, which has been ignored in spite of all our press conferences, our parliamentary speeches, our motions. Heroin and land mafia have a new incident every day. Last Thursday night last week, we had a nominee come to the store in broad daylight, and you don't know how to run without us? He was shot in the foot, and he survived a life-threatening operation. The perpetrators are walking around again. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, again, we are faced with a bag of legislation, which is not filled, based on arbitrary. The opinion of both my party and other opposition parties will never benefit the public by disregarding the opinion of representatives of the public. Our proposals to the commissions are rejected one by one. Now, with this bill, six colleges are set up at Biruni University. One of them is a dental school. See, as a dentist, I've tried repeatedly to address the problems of our profession and colleagues. It's amazing that the faculty is opening up because we're going to reach the norms of the European Union. There are currently 54 dental schools, but they cannot be reached. Our annual graduates are 2,500. In any case, when the government has no study of receiving services from clinics, opening new schools in this area is nothing more than creating unemployed dentists. Another issue is about a social injustice. In the past April, our Manisa MP, Mr. Sakine Öz, offered the law to use the right of all insured female workers to borrow their children. An offer has been made for the birthing debt of our women from BUG-KUR, who work for him. Today, according to the relevant laws in our country, women registered to the USSR are not defined for women from BUG-KUR when they give birth and therefore lack working life and social security, while the same rights are not defined for women from BUG-KUR. Thus, the fact that the debt of birth only includes women from the SSC creates injustice in the first place. The necessary steps to the matter must be taken by this Parliament at once. Dear MPs, Mr. Prime Minister said in his speech the other day that I would go to the hospital before sunrise in Kasimpaşa. But today, we see that 11 of 69 health units, especially the family health centre, have been empty in Beyoglu for months. Taxi Emergency Hospital is being shut down. There is no emergency room in Beyoglu and Kasympaşa, where millions live. Again, in the same speech, Mr. Prime Minister, even in emergency services in the past, they have shown little interest, compassion for my sick brother. Take a look at this headline in the Universal newspaper today, the findings are pathetic, the writing is exactly like this: doctors in the ER look at 2,500 patients in one day. The dating system doesn't work in many places. People are flocking to the emergency room. In health violence, doctors sit close to the window so they can escape. According to Ankara Medical Chamber data, there are only 7.773 cases of violence in ten months. However, medical examiners are being held responsible for the system. Doctors can't even take 15 or 20 minutes of food out of intensity. This is the final point of health. We see that the government, which has come to market with the operation of December 17th, is running our country in chaos with such lies. The government, who did not seek mercy on our young men who were killed in the events of the journey, nor to heal the dozens whose eyes had been cast out, is still holding lies to provoke our people. He's making shroud literature to divide our country. I'm sure the young people you put shrouds in at the rally don't even have bus fares in their pockets to go home to. You said that Muezzin was a true religious man, and he denied it. It wasn't enough, they kissed in the mosque, we'll prove it. You said, you couldn't prove it. They attacked, harassed, abused, peed on the baby. You said, "As far as cameras can tell, that's a lie." We said, "Find the perpetrators, and curse them. You have not found one hundred." Finally, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy has announced that the protection of women and children against any violence is from the Ministry's duties and that the alleged abused lady will be involved in the investigation. Mr. Secretary, I wish he had shown the same compassion to the woman who was kicked by the machete attacker during the travel events, to our young girl, who was struck by the police's hair in İzmir. You will try to block them by censoring them through the Internet, but you will find no measures for Bahattin, and Bahattin on the Internet will suffice you. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0074	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of law under Article 34 of the 546 rows of the proposed law be replaced with the terms of the letter "Preparations of the Law." Pervin Buldan Bengi Star Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 34th of the proposed law. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the article. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Kadir Gökmen Öğütın Selahmetın Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz They co-operate with civil defence directors in the provinces. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 34 of the current law proposal 546 rows. Alim Light Emin Çınar Kemalettin Yilmaz Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz "The first sentence of Article 6 of Article 6 of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the State of the The presidential centre is composed of the following service units:"and the second joke of the same clause was added to the article after the statement "The Central Assembly" following the declaration of the President, the following joke, and the title "The President's Office" (I). The presidential rural agency consists of the following services: (a) County disaster and emergency departments" Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0137par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0104	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0138par0105	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0106	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0139par0107	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0108	I'm reading the reason: The presidency aims to identify the country's organization, which was created by this Law Proposal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's 34th of the proposed law. We would like to add the following statement to the end of the article. A Remembrance of the Mighty heavens and His companions. They co-operate with civil defence directors in the provinces. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0140par0118	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0119	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0141par0120	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0121	Anybody want a word on the motion? Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0142par0122	Motive...
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0123	I'm reading the reason: To ensure coordination. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the declaration of law under Article 34 of the 546 rows of the proposed law shall be replaced with a declaration of ▪ in the form of Article 34. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0143par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0133	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0144par0134	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0135	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to provide meaning integrity in the material text and clarify the text. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of law under Article 35 of 546 shall be changed with the terms of the declaration. Pervin Buldan Bengi Star Altan Tan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-five of the proposed law. All institutions and organizations in the article transfer earthquake observation data to the Ministry simultaneously, and we demand that the statement be changed to the Ministry in an instant and immediately. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Haluk Eyidoğan Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We officially offer and propose the removal of the terms of the law proposal in 546 rows from the text of the article in the box of Article 35. Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Alim Işım Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0145par0162	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0163	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0146par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0136par0165	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0147par0167	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the earthquake, it's already breaking down, the earthquake, and let's not destroy it. I have been promised the amendment to the 546th amendment to the ordinance, which I hereby salute all of you. Now, universities, local governments, and all institutions who observe Article 35 have simultaneous transfer of earthquake observation data to the presidency. Basic data, such as the magnitude and violence of the earthquake, are officially announced to the public by the presidency. It's the right way for relevant institutions to transfer all data to the presidency. It is also appropriate for the presidency to be appointed to publicize the basic data about the earthquake, but we are in a country that has to live in peace with the earthquake, and therefore, every official in this country must first examine the fact that the earthquake is about the earthquake: the earthquake, the insensitivity, the numbness, the bluntness of the impact, because the cost of the neglect that occurred before and after the earthquake is human life. Dear lawmakers, I would like to demonstrate with real data how urgent and important the situation is from Turkey. For one thing, Turkey is on one of the most active earthquake belts. One fifth of the world's earthquakes occur in a generation above Turkey. 93 per cent of Turkey's territory is in earthquake zones. In the last 12 years in Turkey, between January 2000 and April 2012, there have been 68,837 large, and 1,012 earthquakes between March 1st 2011 and March 1st 2012. The population of Turkey is 98% under threat of earthquakes. 98 per cent of industrial companies are in earthquake zones and 73 per cent are on active fault lines. Likewise, 95 percent of our dams are on this dangerous land. On the other hand, the energy plants and the earthquake relationship are also a candidate for interesting results. According to one study, the number of power plants was 124, while 122 were at risk and 65 were in the first-degree earthquake zone, and today, as a result of privatisations, there are approximately 1,334 power plants, and 580°i, 43 percent of them are in the first-degree earthquake zone. This means that the risk has grown. Dear lawmakers, all data shows how serious a risk Turkey faces from the earthquake. Turkey governs a government with an apology for organizing, co-ordinating and managing the crisis. The earthquake does not forgive lack of coordination or organization. The cost of work, activity, and the lack of harmony between people and harmony in the earthquake is human life. You can't live in peace with the fact of the earthquake, only by changing disaster, zoning, building laws and decrees. Do I need to say that 40 per cent of the housing in our country is illegal or unlicensed, that 10 per cent of the building stock needs to be renovated, 30 per cent needs to be repaired, otherwise the potential earthquakes will turn into disasters, that public structures, such as hospitals, schools, and hospitals in the disaster group, will again risk collapse in a possible disaster? I'd like to say once again that the way natural events turn into disasters is through a healthy and qualified system of control, starting with the right place to choose. On the other hand, implementing a more efficient structure control system is essential to resolving the shortcomings of the existing structure control system. Disasters in earthquakes are the result of the opening of streams, valleys, forests, coasts, water basins, earthquakes, indiscriminate areas, under pressure from the Rant economy. This is certainly the result of understanding that instead of implementing transformation in areas that are at risk in terms of earthquakes, it aims to convert urban transformation into rantal transformation. So today, most of the disasters in the earthquake process are the result of handing over the economy that is giving up production to the land line, and I'm warning you that measures must be taken for them, all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0148par0177	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-five of the proposed law. All institutions and organizations in the article transfer earthquake observation data to the Ministry simultaneously, and we demand that the statement be changed to the Ministry in an instant and immediately. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0149par0184	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0148par0185	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0150par0186	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0148par0187	Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0151par0189	Thank you. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if you want to determine the danger of earthquakes at a national level in a country and reduce the risks, the risk of disaster, the first step is to best present the threat of disaster or the danger of earthquakes and the risks. And then you have to create a decision-making mechanism in the process of planning and implementing with enough technical equipment and tools to get that information. If this is about an earthquake, you need to set up a continuous national earthquake information infrastructure. I'd like to give you some information on whether this is enough or not in this country. Now, if we're going to set up a national earthquake information infrastructure, one of the conditions is the national earthquake recording network and the national seismic network for national earthquake information infrastructure. One of the other elements in its infrastructure is the earthquake data bank. Another is the maps of danger and seismic micro-digitation. Three of these have to work together, in harmony. The national earthquake recording network or seismic network that collects basic earthquake data across the country has three basic functions: 1) The collection and processing of earthquake data. 2) Reporting earthquake formations. 3) Archive of records. There's a serious mess in our country about these things, there's dubs, there's deformities, there's standard deficits. That's what I want to talk to you about. So, what should our basic qualifications be if you have a national earthquake recording network? One: continuity and continuous development, the production of contemporary and professional organizational data with a certain international standard and sensitivity; advanced infrastructure; fast information production and distribution. The time of national seismic networks in the world to transfer sensitive data to society and to relevant institutions is less than five minutes. Unfortunately, we can't catch it. Indoor and out-of-country communication, all data should be open to users by certain standards. Here, Mr. President, the proposal needs to be corrected. You're saying that greatness and violence are determined and given. The magnitude, the place, the depth, the time of creation, it needs to be corrected because these are the earthquake parameters. When we look at the situation today, there are two public institutions in our country that are doing these things: one is the Kandilli Observatory of Boğaziçi University and the Earthquake Research Institute, and the other is the Earthquake Research Agency, which is owned by AFAD. There are 213 seismic stations in the Kandilli Observatory, scattered throughout Turkey, with a total of 653 earthquake stations within AFAD, and they're scattered so far that the same kinds of devices do the same function in close proximity to each other. That, of course, causes a lot of management confusion and confusion of information. In fact, when an earthquake occurs today, two separate institutions explain the same earthquake in two different ways, the time, the time, the depth, and the size of each other. This needs to be fixed. That's why we have suggestions: 1) An advanced system must be established for monitoring, evaluation, archived and announced earthquakes. The established components of this system are the national earthquake monitoring, evaluation and archiving centre, national seismic network, national strong ground movement network, regional and local networks. 2) In the process of institutionalisation of these centers and networks under a system, technical and administrative issues such as status, data sharing and distribution, operating, maintenance and personnel policy must be put into a legal framework. 3) In these institutions, the performance, quality, salary criteria required by employees to work for seven days and 24 hours in particular should develop the type of personnel policy they employ. 4) An independent control board must be formed. The performance of the system must be reported every year. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0205	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose that the declaration of law under Article 35 of 546 shall be changed with the terms of the declaration. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0153par0212	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0213	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0154par0214	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0215	I'm having it read. The amendment was intended to provide meaning integrity in the text of matter and clarify the text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 36: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the proposed 546 rows of law be replaced by "the President's proposal and by the Prime Minister's or the Deputy Prime Minister." Mustafa Kalaycı Oktay Vural Mehmet Günal Seyfettin Yilmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Alim Işım Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-six of the current law proposal. I was about to come to the clause (k) after the clause (I) We propose the addition of the "to develop joint projects with the II civil defence directorates." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Haluk Eyidoğan İlhan Demiröz Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "Ell disaster and emergency managers are appointed by the President's proposal by the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister, who has been authorized by the president." and "The presidential and/or governor's office is responsible for the presidential and/or interim deployment of executive staff." Instead of removing its statement from the text of the bill, it is "assigned by mayors and interested NGOs." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan İdris Bauken Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0155par0243	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0244	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0156par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0246	I'm reading the reason: The change will prevent all initiatives from being handed over to governors for post-conflict situations, allowing mayors who know the public's problems and the city to play active role in the process along with NGOs. Thus, for disaster and emergencies, the fate of the people will not only be left at the mercy of the governors. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-six of the current law proposal. In accordance with the law (I). We want to develop joint projects with the NGOs to be added. Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0157par0256	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0257	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0158par0258	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0152par0259	Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0159par0261	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are referring to the duties of AFAD's county managers in Article No. 5902 of Act 5902 of AFAD. One of their duties is to determine the dangers and risks of disaster and emergency, and to prepare for disaster and emergency. Now, in this framework, I would like to say a few things about the Law on Urban Transformation No. 6306 or the Transmutation Act Under the Disaster: Now, after this law was passed, the Department of Development and Urbanism asked every district in 2012 to report information and detection of earthquake-threatening areas to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. At the time, no one knew how to make these findings, but he didn't, because there was no information on how to do it in the general order. Not in that sense, but in 2008, there's a microzone directive that says that a city or a county's urban risks can be determined. In the time of the Ministry of Public Works and Housing, it was developed by the Office of Disasters, along with local and foreign experts. This directive was used on every scale as a basis for the city's development plans, but this directive was used to determine the dangers of natural disaster or do ground ethics, so it is not in a context that determines urban risks in structured areas and creates safe living measures and measures. Without determining urban risks, it is impossible to come up with a plan of prevention that will make the disasters the least affected. If you can't plan for prevention, then you can't create an urban environment that's planned, healed, healthy and accessible and transformed. When risky area-determination sectors went from the ministry to municipalities, municipalities tried to do something about the risk-free area and the risky structure, but it wasn't enough. Meanwhile, the regulation on risky space, risky structure and reserve area detection was published on 15 December 2012. According to this regulation, the documents and information that municipalities seeking to apply to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism for a risky space announcement were listed as follows: 1) The technical report that the area is at risk of loss of life and property due to ground structure and construction on it. 2) Information on earlier disasters in the field. 3) If you have a coordinated limiting map, including the size of the field, the application development plan. 4) It is a list of public residences found in the area. 5) Satellite image and medium photo map of the area. 6) The site is a scientific study report in case it is wanted to be identified as a risky area due to the structure of the floor. 7) According to the area's specificity, the ministry will ask for information and documents. Now, that's what the Ministry wants from the municipalities, but they don't give references about making microzone maps. So, unfortunately, the municipalities, before they could do enough of these studies, they sent their risk-tested assessments -- we have documents about them -- to the Ministry. The ministry, by law, also received the opinion of the AFAD presidency and was declared risky areas, despite the fact that there were not enough risky structures or risky field studies, existing ground ethics, micro-division guidelines. We asked 100 municipalities according to the law of asking for information. In particular, we found that 70 percent of 100 municipalities were unable to respond to the information required, and some information and documents that were available were very poor in scientific and technical rules. For what? For hundreds of high-risk areas that have been declared. Our observations and information show that risky field decisions are based on the rules of scientific location selection, urban risk assessments and the understanding of improved risk management. I mean, the earthquake's an excuse, the no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0160par0275	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the President's proposal, or the Deputy Prime Minister, which he authorized, shall be changed to the form of a decree. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0161par0282	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0160par0283	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0162par0284	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0160par0285	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0163par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 36 of Law Proposal 546. I salute the High Council. Our proposal is that disaster management is better, that things work out better. Respected lawmakers, as we all know, some of the natural disasters are predetermined, but the damage may be prevented or minimized, but some of them are unpredictable, but the violence and influence are not calculated. And the best example of that is the earthquake. From earthquakes that occur, people can be damaged in various ways; it shocks people; it causes injuries, infectious diseases, epidemics, and most importantly, psychological disorders, and ultimately, economic destruction. Our country, of course, is on an earthquake belt. There must be serious measures regarding the earthquake. In particular, the fact that the earthquake or the North Anatolian fault line has not been broken in Istanbul has increased the risk of earthquakes in these areas more and more. In this direction, serious measures must be taken in these areas of settlements, and some issues should be developed according to them. In particular, the 17 August Izmit and the 12 November 1999 Düzce earthquakes in our country have caused thousands of deaths and thousands of our citizens injured. After all, there have been trillions of damage and our country's most important efforts have suddenly been destroyed, wasted. Although at the time, our government was at the side of the people, in order to overcome all of them, and in the best possible way to remove the damage caused by those destructions. But it is also a fact that there is no forgetting how accurate it is to take precautions in advance in earthquakes and how much measures can remove the loss of lives and property. There are earthquakes in many parts of the world, but we don't see earthquakes that are just as badly damaged in our country. Therefore, all buildings in the cities and districts, especially on fault lines -- mainly official buildings -- must be reviewed and the necessary measures must be taken. Honourable MPs, I'd like to move on from here to another matter. In many cities in the province of Tokat in particular, many municipalities have been shut down along with the recent Metropolitan Law. However, some of the municipalities that were shut down during the closure were over 2,000 people in 2011, but its closure at the 2012 census brought with it a great deal of stress because it fell below 2,000 people. See now 10 municipalities in Afyonkarahisar, 20 municipalities in the province of Tokat, 20 municipalities in the provinces of Nevşehir, Niğde, 4 (er, Çaneskırı, Giresun, Güreşhane and Sivas districts 3 (er, Isparta and Mus), Adıyaman, Aman, Aman, Ardahan, Artvin, Bayburt, Bingöl, Çanakkale, Iğdır, Bozkale, Kütahya and Yalova districts, a total of 65 districts in the provinces of Iğdır, Kütahya, Kütahya and Yalova. Our dear friends have prepared a motion on the 40th article, so a motion has been made regarding the continuation of these municipalities. If these motions are accepted, they'll have found a right because they're over 2,000 populations. See, in 31/12/2011, they passed 2,000 populations, but unfortunately they didn't take advantage of that law because it was based on 31/12/2012 on the date of the law. However, there's a very serious migration going on around here, and the rights given are being revoked. I mean, if 2,000 populations are considered in the main purpose of the law, all of them have passed 2,000 populations. So, after that, if our motion on the 40th article within that law is accepted, those people will be happy and especially we will be able to re-immigrate the inner Anatolian region. See, the inner Anatolian region is where a very intense migration took place. In particular, there have been serious migrations in many provinces over the past decade. In all the provinces of Tokat, of our province of Sivas, of Yozgat, Amasya, of which I am a MP, people, in all sense, are not making money, they are not making money, they are not making money, they are leaving their territory and they are going elsewhere. And given that these municipalities have closed down and the migration will increase even more, I especially want to express once again how important it is that the municipality of 65 is to continue, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0164par0301	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions in Article 37: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-seven of the proposed law. In Article 19, we propose that the term "dryable" be changed to "creepy." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ağan Ayadın Izzet Cetin Sedef Little Haluk Eyidoğan Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In Article 37 of the 546 law proposal, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the declaration of "can't exceed twenty-five" be replaced by the term "can't beat twenty-five." Pervin Bulgi Bengi Star Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the second sentence of Article 19 of Article 19 of Article 5902, which has been replaced with Article 37 of the proposed law proposal in 546 rows. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Mesut Dedeoğlu Lütfü Türkkan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0165par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0164par0325	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0166par0326	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0164par0327	Lütfü Türkkan who wants a word on the motion is the MP of Kopeeli.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0167par0329	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I spoke here in the previous articles, this bag is in the law at Law Proposal 546. Turkey suffered two major pains ten to fifteen years ago, three months apart. In the August 17th and November 12th earthquakes, about 19,000 of our citizens lost their lives and nearly 50,000 were injured, but there were not enough arrangements for natural disasters in Turkey, even after fifteen years of the Marmara earthquake. Rather than the moment of disaster, preparations and reductions of damage that need to be done before the disaster are of great importance. We're still short on that. In this sense, the phases of modern disaster management, loss reduction, search, rescue, first aid and reconstruction are crucial. There's a Van earthquake in front of us. In particular, the victims suffered a great deal of anxiety over what kind of vehicle was needed during the transport of relief supplies, reaching the disaster site and meeting at the centre, and getting the goods where they were needed. The Justice and Development Party government literally failed in the Van earthquake, which was smaller than the Marmara earthquake. After the quakes on October 23, 2011 and November 9, 2011, our earthquake victims in the region changed their lives, but they took the main blow from the AKP government. Because the AKP government failed to fulfill its commitments, the tradesman in particular in the region was unable to recover. The urban transformation project kept stalling, and with no license to build a new business, they were dragged into debt. I'd like to draw your attention to one more point here. After the 1999 Marmara earthquake, taxes began to collect earthquake wounds. Taxes have been collecting in this country for about 15 years under the name of private communication tax. Twelve of these fifteen years, the ruling Justice and Development Party. The special communication tax, brought only once to heal the wounds, became a law clause, let alone wake up a year later. About $50 billion has been collected, so it's $25 billion. On every platform, I asked him, "Where are these coins?" After the Van earthquake, statements were made from the government. That's right. If only you'd done it that way, in the 21st century, Muharrem, whose family couldn't take him to the hospital because of the roadblock. The experts are screaming, God forbid, but there's a new Marmara earthquake at the door. In a possible major earthquake, there could be at least twice as many casualties as the 1999 earthquake. Besides, we're looking at a painful picture of 130,000 seriously injured, 400,000 people in need of care. Let's pray to God that we don't have earthquakes, but let's take precautions. No serious steps have been taken at this point. Not even nails, not even nails, let alone repair damaged buildings. God forbid, if there was a recent earthquake, if the buildings were to collapse, if the people were to fall, what would government officials say, I'm very curious. Admirable? Won't it hurt? Won't your conscience hurt? I don't think it's gonna hurt, not to you, from the building that collapsed from the earthquake, from the person that was under it.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0168par0334	The leaks, the sores.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0167par0335	I hope so. I hope so. Because the government's attention has been completely, completely, completely intellectual. Such human matters have been overlooked, I'm afraid. It would take several decades for the mayor to be fully prepared for the earthquake. He actually admitted that they had nothing to do with it. You didn't have time to sell the most precious parts of Istanbul, to send it to the contractors, to build portals, to prepare for earthquakes. Mr. President, good lawmakers are a profit wherever they come back from harm. Well, what should be done? Risky buildings must be detected and declared without delay for even a day, including a specific plan to be destroyed and replaced, new settlements must be established; of course, the owners must not be victimised when the buildings are destroyed. So be wary of Us, and be wary of Allah. We say there is no need for them to serve under you, since our motion is foreseen that disaster and emergency search and rescue union bodies can be established within the province's disaster and emergency directorate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0169par0341	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 37 of the 546 law proposal, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the declaration of "can't exceed twenty-five" be replaced by the term "can't beat twenty-five." Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0170par0348	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0169par0349	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0171par0350	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0169par0351	I'm reading the reason: With the change made by the presidency, the Council of Emergency and Emergency Directorates of Disasters and Emergency Research and Rescue will be able to establish more of them. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Thirty-seven of the proposed law. In Article 19, we propose that the term "dryable" be changed to "creepy." Haluk Eyidoğan (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0172par0360	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0169par0361	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0173par0362	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0169par0363	Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0174par0365	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to say something now, a little bit further back. In one of the materials, it is said that 112 emergency call centers are established within the nationalities. Of course, we don't know what's in this right now. The staff who conduct the call service -- we don't know that -- are assigned here, he says. Now, they don't explain these things, but if you'll excuse me, let me tell you a little bit about what I understand about this -- how it's done in the world. Of course, that, in fact, creates an impression of collecting under one number. If that's the case, that's what we suggest. Now, in the plan of intervention and action, the Emergency Management System, the Emergency Management System, allows for joint command, control and co-ordination of organizations and institutions that aim to work in emergencies. It is also a system of education and behavior designed to ensure the safety of individuals and response units in the emergency area. This is the definition, so in the plan of intervention and action, you will establish the Emergency Management System, its goal, its mission. One of the most important elements of the Emergency Management System is that it's gathered under the same roof, and it works under a single number, and it can be changed, but I call it the command control centers, or the center. These centers need to be established in the region, or in the region, which includes several provinces. If you say that 112 emergency call centers are set up here in the state of the law proposal, you have to explain the contents of this. But what I'm saying is, in terms of the themes of the world, there's gotta be ambulances, fire departments, police, search and rescue teams all together under this one roof. There are some very good examples of that in the world, and they all work under one number. Look, I'll give you an example of the numbers we have now: 110 Fire Calls, 112 Ambulances, Medical Aid, 113 Alo Health Aid, 114 Poison Advice, 151 Coast Guard, 152 Coast Guard, 153 Brigades, 155 Police Help, 156 MPs, 158 Coast Guard, 159 Alo Highways, 177 Forests, 185 Water Beeza, 186 Electric Beeza, 187 Gas Beeza, 187 Gas Beeza. That's not gonna happen. This is behind the times now. We can agree on that if you are to place 112 emergency call centers in this law proposal, and you are to place them in it. Now, therefore, this law proposal requires that its only number be met. These command centers work 24/7 and do routine work in that province or in that area. In the event of disaster or a major crisis, several levels of disaster management are increased, gradually increased, and all elements that are not routinely working there come together. In the event of need, the gendarmes, the TSK, the coastal police, the municipalities, the governorship, environmental organisations and NGOs will also help during this administration during this great disaster and great crisis. A efficient and practical communication system that guarantees a direct and secure connection to the command control center in crisis, disaster, and emergencies is the key to saving lives. What have we got? We're still using a numerical, analog communication system where all elements are cut off when you press the button, not digital, not digital -- in the digital world. This needs to be changed in 112, in a real 112. In times of disaster, all institutions and organizations must have the right, uninterrupted, up-to-date and non-compromising flow of information during crisis times. How are you going to do that? That's got to be considered. Problems between crisis, disaster, emergency intervention individuals and teams that may arise from possible terminology and standard differences need to be minimized. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0175par0378	Mr. President, why don't you take a roll call, in the meantime, and we'll see if the guys are here.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit04spe0176par0379	Aye. Yes, I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll grant it. Mr. Altay, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Çetin, Mr. Akar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Attı, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Young, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Önüt and Mr. Aksunger. I'll give you three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, the meeting has not been enough. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-02-18sit05spe0176par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 63rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough attendance in the roll call before the vote of İstanbul MP Haluk Eyidoğan and his friends' motion on Article 37 of Law Proposal 546. Now we're going to recheck with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Members of parliament, since the meeting was not enough in the second round of roll call, as per the decision taken, it is Wednesday (February 19th 2014) that the bill and proposals be discussed in order of other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
