tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, so we'll move on to the agenda. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Burdur MP Ramadan Karim Özkan, who wants to talk about Burdur's current problems. Congressmans, please remain silent. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0002par0008	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as Burdur MP of the land of lakes and roses and hearts, I give you all my regards and my love. I'd like to share with you six of Burdur. Burdur is the capital of agriculture and animalism. Burdur is a leading city in stone, in natural stone, in marble, in traverten. Burdur is a leading province in agriculture tools and machines; it is a leading province in transport; it is a leading province in tourism and history; it is a leading province in trade, in terms of the stock market and the milk market. However, there are problems. We have three white gold pieces. One of them is in a county, one of them isn't, but we share that beauty. We have the most beautiful industrial plants: poppy, anise, tobacco, beets. However, our beet producers suffer from quotas. Our marble, Burdur beige...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0003par0012	Mr. Speaker, one moment, Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0002par0013	Sir?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0003par0014	Wait a minute, I'll add it to your timeline.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0002par0015	Sure.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0003par0016	Congressmans, the speaker is on the stand. Please, I ask you all to listen in silence. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0002par0018	I'd like to share with you my friends the revenues and revenues of Turkey. These are Turkey's white gold, these are in Burdur. Our beige marble is home to places at the airport in New York, America. Burdur Sugar Factory, our beet is a brand, but the beet maker suffers. The price of beets, energy inputs, diesel inputs, watering is not enough income and returns. We need to take care of the sugar beets and sugar. Again, in our livestock, our milk is a brand, 15 brands. Although our milk is a brand, the milk manufacturer is now a victim. Right now, the Ministry has made an attempt to import meat, and we are strongly against it. The studry can be taken as food, it has an assessment of 250 to 250, but we are opposed to bringing live animals from abroad, in terms of food and heifers. We have a population. You need to run the Meat and Milk Foundation in a balanced manner. This, my friends, has done a project called Burdur. We have an OSB area of 353 hectares now, MERIH, which is an organized area of marble residency. This area will be home to at least 30 of our businessmen with an investment of about 2.5 billion, where thousands of people will live. We invite our businessmen here. However, Burdur is the third in terms of OSB, fourth in terms of development. Burdur is a working place. We hear about what was given to Burdur from time to time, from the Ministry of Agriculture authorities. My dear friends, Burdur. Last year's agricultural support for Burdur is 91 million, but only the Burdur manufacturer gave the VAT 120 million from the feed and milk. So, we, Burdurlu, are going to get from 30 million as manufacturers, only from the VAT, which we give from milk and feed. We're not counting the gas. Look, we don't count the other fabrics, tractors, taxes. I said don't move it. My dear friends, our ways, our ways, our ways, from the way of Burdur, from the way of Karaman to the border of Karaman, we have the Çindik, we have the Suludere, we have the Kuruçai, we have the Akyaka, we have the Yassımah, we have the Pilgrims. We don't have a village in these villages that doesn't have a funeral on this road. Again, we have Düğer, Hacis, Halfville, Yazköy lines. There are fatal accidents every day because there are no double roads on these lines. In Burdur, the Ministry of Transport must immediately focus on this issue, for there are 10,000 vehicles a day passing through Burdur. Our movers, our truckers, are living on number 10 oil, they're having trouble finding transport, paying their cars R1, R2, K1, K2, K2. Again, our marblers suffer from energy input. They're having trouble setting up a field in their field. The implementation of the fields only came to the Prime Minister. You have to run the mining agency, there are delays with the signatures. Our people, who have already produced this, are working to contribute to the country's economy -- energy, diesel, shepherd's fire in the mountains. We demand that our law work in order for them to work in environmental sensitivity. Again, in our dairy livestock, my dear friends, look, the bait is gone again. This year we're going to suffer a shortage of hay. The Department of Agriculture needs to take care of these products as soon as possible. The eraser went away, the watering went away. You haven't dropped the VAT in this energy from 18 to 1. The energy VAT is our biggest entry. The special consumption tax in the diesel is 65 percent. So, when our farmer buys $100 worth of diesel for his tractor today, he contributes $65 to our government, but my farmer doesn't make $3.5 a pound of any product he sells. Don't think it's worthy of our farmer, hold our farmer's hand. Look, this year across Turkey, there's been a hailing event in our regions, there's been rains, there's been heavy rains, and our farmers have been damaged. Right now, they're waiting for a configuration of Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loans. However, the government is holding off on 3% interest, which is not enough. The citizen hasn't been able to buy his product, so he can't keep the seed of next year. These citizens need seeds. I need you to run the land crop office. See, the wheat production is running out, you still haven't explained a base price policy, the wheat base price. Our manufacturer is in the hands of the merchant. The land crop office...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0004par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0002par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. My respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0004par0033	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Alim Izlu, who wants to talk about problems with TEOG and KPSS exams. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0005par0036	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, in recent years, we face a scandal in almost every test conducted by the Centre for Measurement, Selection and Placement, the OSTYM. In the previous years, I took the oath to put aside what had happened and to share problems with you today about the problems that happened at KPSS. On this occasion, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the first joint test was taken on 28-29 November 2013 as part of the TEOG exams, which were put into practice at the beginning of the 2013-2014 education-school year instead of the previous SBS implemented by the National Ministry of Education. Due to the mispreparation of these exams, two questions from math class and one from science and technology class have been canceled, and then four more problems have been canceled in Ankara 13. The Supreme Court is being sued. As a result of this trial, the results should be reconsidered on July 1, 2014, when a total of 4 problems were wrong, and on July 7, 2014, the results were decided to cancel the examination results. In this case, every remaining problem in this test with the wrong question has increased, and the missing score has increased due to every wrong answer given to these questions. This will reduce students' success points, and instead of punishing those responsible, it will cause students to pay the bill for the wrong done by the SEC. In order to prevent this injury, the calculation must be calculated and prevented by accepting that every suspended test question has been done correctly by all students who have taken the exam. Because, since he did not take the required examinations, the students who later took the test of excuses for about 46,000 will be evaluated on a full score, while others will be subjected to scores with missing questions. This injustice must be averted. Again, two of the TEOG exams took place on 28-29 April 2014. In these exams, there has been a double cheating scandal, and in this exam, about 1,200,000 students have been suspended, as well as the two students who took the test in the same class, but who answered the same question incorrectly, were completely zeroed in that test during the computer evaluation. Thus, thousands of students were victimised and were able to take the high school choice with a missing test. Therefore, it is imperative that the binary copy system be cancelled and that the rating be made again, given that other questions are being done fully by the students. As a matter of fact, even though our student at Kütahya Cumhuriyet Middle School, Kemal Wanda, is a very successful student, he has been evaluated from mathematics with zero points in the same class for copying with another female student, and all his objections have nothing to do with the head of the department concerned with the Ministry of National Education, your math test has been considered zero. It can't happen, and it can't be accepted. Another important topic is the issue of the KPSS exams in the SNS. The KPSS in 2012 has not yet been answered for the claims that the master's question manual has been removed from the building and sold before the test to the PKK terrorist organisation in some provinces to obtain income, while it is also on the public's agenda that the 2014 KPSS licensing examination on July 5, 2014 has not asked questions about the test that ÖSYM announced earlier in the examination manual, which is not in line with the average weights shown in the manual, and that political propaganda has been made with some political questions. On the one hand, questions have not been explained before, so it is also a question of whether these claims are true or not. In particular, it says that the issue must be raised and that the National Ministry of Education and the government should be able to prevent the victims of the issue, and I offer you all once again.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0006par0041	Thank you, Mr. Light. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Erzincan MP Sebahattin Karakelle, who wants to mention the 21st anniversary of the Bashle massacre. Here you go, Mr. Karakelle.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0007par0045	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise to mark the 21st anniversary of the Grand Bond massacre of human history, which enshrouds our country and our nation with a profound law. I salute your high council. Twenty-one years have passed since the brutal attack on our village of one country, one nation, one nation, the Ottoman Empire for many years, the paradise corner of our Anatolian capital in the palms of the mountains. For the past twenty-one years, the pain is fresh, and the pain in the heart has not stopped. Those who set fire to the village, who burned the mosque and the school, who had seen that the oppressor in our chiefs had not shut up, nor had the moon-star flag ever come down. Their heads were burned, they wanted to be erased from the scene of history, and their mothers were orphaned, and yet, despite their 33 martyrs, they said, "God bless the state of my brothers and mothers." Only those who put Sivas (Sivas) on their agenda and forget the Grandads (the chieftains) had their heart set on them. In the heart of our Anatolian nation, the richness of our flesh and nails, the ulterior motive to use our small differences in order to divide and tear them apart will never achieve their goals in the present or in the future, as in the past. 780,000 square miles of land, 77 million of our people, our common history, our common culture, with Kurdish, with Turkish, with Alevi, with Sunni, with Lazni, with Circezik, with Abaza, in this thousand-year-old geography that has declared us brothers, no one will be able to disrupt our unity and unity. Mr. President, dear MPs, in Çanakkale, in Sakarya, Dumlupınar, our ancestors, who brought the seven heifers to their knees in this land, must raise the name of unity and unity in every part of the land entrusted to us, which is our historic responsibility. Because terror has nothing to say to humanity, no truth to show. Because, anywhere in the world, with no ideas or ideal terror, he has not achieved his goal with violence. It is necessary to view these events as attacks on the integrity of the nation and its integrity and order and not distinguish between them, to think together. All of this, unfortunately, should be seen in Sivas as a provocative act, an account of the blood of poets, poets, artists, and other defenseless innocent villagers, women, children. Of the chiefs of the chiefs of Sivas, of Erzurum Yavi, of the heads of the chiefs, and of the sons of Jabi, of Marash, and of the sons of Marash. Even after twenty-one years, mothers who have lost their children in Sivas are still weeping in the Prelates. What is the difference between 13 - year - old Ibrahim Baltacı and 12 - year - old Koray Kaya and 15 - year - old Menekse Kaya? Aren't these our children, their mothers our mothers? Aren't our mothers the mothers of the children who were lured into the mountains by a terrorist organization, kidnapped during a picnic? It says, and I believe the solution process will allow all mothers to stop crying and embrace their children. In the words of Veysel, the lover: Aren't we always a brother? I invite those who take Sivas (Sivas) on their agenda at every turn, and ignore the Grandads, once again, to act in conscience and to be more sensitive about it. Twenty-one years ago, I send my regards to all our martyrs and all our victims of terror, who we sent to eternity, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0008par0057	Thank you. Before we go on the agenda,
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0009par0059	Who is the murderer of the chieftains? You might as well tell me.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0008par0060	Don't say anything, please!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0010par0061	You know, the PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0009par0062	The PKK terror organization is the killer of the chiefs.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0011par0064	You don't even remember his name!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0009par0065	The PKK terror organization you're trying to exonerate in Congress today.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0008par0066	Before we go on the agenda, I'll give them my word if there's a request from the group's vice presidents. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0012par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn the PKK organization that brutally slaughtered 33 people in the village of the chiefs, children, women, and elders. Such events have actually been one of the first acts towards unarmed people, and I share their pain. Those who sit at the table with them today need to think very carefully about how to stop them tomorrow. On this occasion, I offer my condolences to all the people who live in the village of the Prime Minister today, and I wish you patience. May God have mercy on all of them.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0013par0071	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0014par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Ali is going to pass on our group in broad daylight to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0013par0075	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0015par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, yes, it was the anniversary of the Bashle massacre, as well as the anniversary of Madimak. A week or two ago. We condemn them both. We ask God's mercy, curse and hate for the lives of those who have lost their lives in Madimak, and for those who have lost their lives in the High Priests. There was also a dangerous development last night. A sabotage was carried out in the middle of the night to the mosque of Mohammediye, where our Jaferi citizens worshipped in Istanbul. Previously, about a month ago, another mosque was sabotaged. This is a very dangerous development, which has recently become common in the country, unfortunately, as a result of the Wahabi, the selefi understanding. He's already come to inform us that he's his predecessor and that they're going to burn him in this mosque. Here comes the important task of the government. The government and the Dianet are dropping important tasks. God forbid, it would be a disaster for all of us to have such a religious conflict, a conflict in the region, in our country. So from here, I'm calling the government, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in the first place. The perpetrators of this incident must be found and brought to justice immediately. This is a provocation. Even if we get hurt, we won't get hurt, we won't come to this provocation, but I think the government should do its part. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0016par0081	Thank you. I don't think there's any further demands. We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0017par0084	There is, there is, Mr. President, there is. Mayor, I was in the system, but I think there's a problem.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0016par0086	You should have told me before we went on the agenda, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0017par0087	Must be a problem.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0018par0088	We were in the system. Is it possible, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0016par0089	You're late.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0017par0090	Okay, okay, I'll explain later.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0016par0091	Yeah, we're moving on. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In prisons in Turkey, the rate of hail is far above the world average. As of April 1, 2012, a total of 132,368 people remain in prisons, including 77,587 prisoners, 36,273 prisoners, 18,509 prisoners. Prisoners and prisoners who remain in prisons with almost twice the capacity of prisoners and prisoners have to live under conditions that do not honor humanity. Prisoners deprived of their freedom are subject to unbearable conditions due to human rights violations in prisons. In order to investigate and implement the rights violations of prisons, I would like to ask that parliamentary research be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th, and the TBM Institution. [[Mardin]] [[Lug]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] The number of fillings and violations of rights in prisons is subject to a newspaper report almost every day. Prisoners and convicted citizens who remain here are deprived of their most natural human rights. Even the terms of the September 12th prison are said to be better than today's conditions. In Mardin Prison, with capacity of 300 people, they are sentenced to over 900 and are infected with various diseases. The fact of the violations of rights in the prisons we saw during the riot at the Urban Closed Prison is now unbearable. Prisoners are desperate enough to get tired of their own lives. At this rate, and if necessary measures are not taken, it will be the same as the day the prisoners will rebel in other prisons in the coming months. It is not the government's duty to punish its citizens in prisons where it has taken their freedom by force, but to create conditions that allow prisoners to suffer in the way of human dignity. One of the main reasons why the filling in prisons in Turkey is so high compared to the world average is that it's been reduced to an exception and converted into a punishment. Arresting is an exception. Thousands of people, including elected mayors, party council members, city and municipal council members, journalists and intellectuals, are being deprived of their freedoms in many cases, when there is no way they can escape. The security concept of the AKP government against the Kurdish issue predicts that thousands of people will be thrown into prison in the slightest opposition. There has been a problem with the judicialisation of politics. Following government officials' statements, operations are taking place, and opposition groups under the name ▪KCK operations are put under pressure and confined to prisons. Prisoners have been subjected to extreme abuse in prisons. The torture continues in the comings and goings of the court and in the infirmary. Prisoners are poisoned by unhealthy foods, sometimes fighting to survive in prisons where more than three times their capacity is. 30 or 40 people share a bathroom and a bathroom, and they have to sleep in a dining room bed. Although hundreds of prisoners are now terminally ill, "there is no treatment at the prison." Despite his reports, he has to live under such poor conditions. The government has no project to correct prison conditions; on the contrary, conditions are getting heavier every day. Instead of correcting inhuman conditions, the government is trying to solve the problem by building new prisons. The solution, however, is not to build new prisons, but to remove obstacles to freedom of thought and organisation. We move from these problems to investigate the proportions of the fullness of prisons and the serious human rights violations that exist in the prisons and ask for parliamentary research in order to make improvements and take necessary measures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Public Housing Authority (TOKİ) has become the most important tool for the transfer of land and resources to the close and allies during the AKP's ruling period. In the wake of the widespread production of social housing for the narrow and middle income group, large hubs are being shaded by urban transformation and revenue-sharing projects to contractors and contributors. In this period, almost all social housing for the small and medium income group are handed over to participants with many problems not seen in similar dwellings, which the administration had previously built. Compulsors in difficult situations are being subjected to their victims and their rights are blocked by signing contracts that are in violation of consumer rights and fundamental law laws. Although the administration has been asked by the TBM Proclamation Commission to determine the violation of the provisions, such as "the substructure, landscape, road and environment arrangement will not be demanded due to incomplete completion" and "the decision to be made by the TOKI will be made by real or legal persons," the administration remains indifferent to these issues. In addition to benefiting fellow contractors, revenue-sharing projects mean nothing to political power's relatives and close environment but to provide cheap real estate. As with the Ankara Erler Project, the distribution of such projects is dedicated to supporters and a number of bureaucrats under the name of the organisation of the request without public announcements. Although the so-called basis for such projects is to provide financing for housing projects for small-income people, the main goal is to build housing for supporters in high-rent areas of the cities, compared to the same-sized housing projects in the same city, and the same-sized housing dwellings with the same-sized housing. Following the global economic crisis in 2008, there has been no meaningful construction activity in the housing and construction sector for nearly two years, other than the TOKI contractors. Because, rather than financing and production of social housing during the AKP administration, it was intended that all control of the economy's most dynamic sector should be connected to the ruling environment through social donuts, ministry service building and the TOKI, which was expanded to almost AYM production. AT THIS time, TOKI grew up with relatives and allies, klutzed, far behind the understanding of modern architecture and urbanization, which is produced for social housing in all parts of the country without looking out for the eastern-west, north-south-south-south-south, mountain-ova, hot-cold environment. As a matter of fact, it is now called "F-type" for TOKI social homes. TOKI uses the sites as a new hub for the ruling environment through Real Estate Management Services A.S., not passing on social housing management for many years. Twenty-five kms from downtown, more dues and fuel money are collected each month from participants who are trying to barely match their housing payments. We respect the investigation of the Parliament by using income-sharing projects to allocate income-sharing projects to the ruling environment, who are always looking for a reference of the power environment instead of hiring and driver's license, who has left infrastructure and environmental regulations in social housing projects years after handing them over to housing, who have long been incompatible with the rule of law and self-management, who have made public administrations in violation of the principle of the law and self-management, who have made public life unbearable for a long period of 104 and 105th articles of the Constitution. [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 3) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] 4) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 10) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 19) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The problem of poverty and unemployment has been exploited more and more each day than the one that has been promised for years. Despite promises by the AKP that poverty and unemployment will be fought in 2002, our country's poverty and unemployment numbers are growing, and these problems are being exploited by the ambition to win votes. Turkey's Statistical Agency (TÜİK) and NGOs prove data that the issue has been abused, its policies on the resolution of the issue are inadequate and lack of sincerity. Although statements have been made from the government wing that our country is growing economically, unfortunately, unemployment and poverty are increasing rather than our country's prosperity level. The figures of poverty expressed by official figures did not reflect the truth, but were previously explained by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan that the number of poor citizens was higher than the official figures. In addition, young unemployment and the unemployment rate with diplomas are increasing rather than diminishing. Every newborn child is likely to live in a hopeless and unemployed tomorrow. So in order to reduce the number of poor citizens in our country and determine which policies will be implemented in order to ensure that they live above the minimum living standards of our country's people, we propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105. With all due respect. 1) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 3) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 5) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] 7) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Çanakkale]] 9) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[40s.]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] The fight against poverty and unemployment is one of the main and primary tasks of the state. In our country, the problem of poverty is ruled by poverty, rather than by being exploited and seeking to benefit from the problem. The fight against poverty is not developed by leaving it to NGOs, local governments and philanthropic citizens. Poverty is simply a case of not being able to meet people's basic needs. At the same time, it refers to the fact that individuals are able to maintain their lives, such as food, clothing, and housing, but remain behind the overall level of society. The AKP, which is ruling in Turkey on the charge that it will end poverty, corruption and unemployment, aims to lead the people to poverty, as it cannot solve any of those problems. With the purpose of managing poverty, the public's honor is being manipulated, and the poverty is being exploited. There are also allegations of corruption related to aid, and there is no work or evidence to refute the allegations or to contradict the allegations. According to a report by the Turkish Revolutionary Labour Union (DİSK), the hunger limit for a family of four was 1,047 euros and the poverty limit was $3,312. According to the results of the study, the daily cost of a healthy adult woman is $9.01, while the amount is $9.28 for an adult male, £9.82 for a 15-19-year-old boy, $6.80 for a 4-6-year-old girl. According to this, a family of four should spend $34.92 a day on healthy food. According to the same calculation, the minimum cost of the family of four is $3,312 a month to eat healthy and live humanly. Food, drink and so forth in meeting the needs of the family. The amount is 1,047, and the amount for clothing and shoes is $207. Other spending pens and the amount that need to be separated are: rent, water, electricity, etc. For $937, furniture, home care, etc. $190 for health, 74 for health, $323 for transportation, 142 for communication, 73 for entertainment and cultural services, $65 for education, restaurant, food, hotel etc. 137 TL is $117 for various goods and services. According to DİSK data, the hunger limit for the same month last year increased by $84, while the poverty limit increased by $265. As a result of an increase in minimum wage in 2012, the difference between minimum wage and the poverty limit has been extended. Research results on young unemployment by the Turkish Statistical Agency (TİK) have given hope rather than hope for the future. The study found that the youth unemployment rate is 18 per cent and the diploma unemployment rate is 30 per cent. Young men who are unemployed have 24 per cent, while young women have 35.6%. The above explanations show that there is no permanent, planned action on unemployment and poverty and to resolve the problem. There are wages set under the poverty and hunger limit, and in the youth that families hope to have a job by reading a narrow range, the rates give them despair and unhappiness rather than hope. As a result, at this point, it is imperative that we determine which policies should be followed to reduce poverty and ensure that people live above the minimum living standards. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women's Opportunities, the Commissions for Public Economic Oppositions also give 1 membership to lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is 18 p.m. Monday (July 14th 2014) of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/07/2014 (now), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the Law Bill 629, which has been distributed in print, the agenda will be placed in the rankings of 615, 240, 565, 387 and 464, and the order of other tasks will be considered according to this order; Besides weekdays, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20 and 21 July 2014 Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays at 14 o'clock. Meeting at 00 and discussing the work involved in these mergers in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; On Tuesday, July 8, 2014 (today) until the completion of the talks of Bill 629; Until the meeting of Wednesday (July 9, 2014) on Wednesday's merger of 240 rows until the completion of the talks on the Law Bill; Until Thursday, July 10, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 387th Bill of Law were merged; Until Friday, July 11, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 163th Bill of the Law were merged; Until Saturday, July 12, 2014, when the talks were completed on the 244th Bill of Laws; Until the meeting of Sunday's 13th July 2014, the 590th Law Proposal until the completion of the talks; Until Monday, July 14, 2014, when the talks were completed until the bill of law, number 104, were merged; Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 15, 2014), until the meeting of the Legislature, number 458, was completed; Until Wednesday, July 16, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 440th Bill of the Law were merged; Until Thursday, July 17, 2014, when the talks were completed until the 267th Bill of the Law were merged; Until Friday (July 18th 2014) the meeting of the 202nd legislature was completed; Until the meeting of Saturday (July 19, 2014), until the meeting of the 121st Bill of Laws, the talks were completed; Until the meeting of Sunday's 20th July 2014, until the meeting of the 140th legislature of the Legislature was completed; Until Monday (July 21st 2014) the meeting of the talks of the operations leading up to Bill 432 in the merger of Monday (July 21st). Until the meeting of Tuesday (July 22, 2014) was completed by the 383th Bill of Law; Until the meeting of Wednesday (July 23, 2014) was completed by the Law Bill No. 455; On Thursday (July 24, 2014) until the meeting of the talks of the Legislature, number 377, was completed; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00 p.m., they continue to work until their daily schedules are completed; The Law Bill 615 was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have its sections in the accompanying form. Mr. Vural, you're in the system. You have something to say?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0019par0288	After the interviews, sir, let's not interrupt the...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0016par0289	Okay. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat will speak in favour of the Justice and Development Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0020par0293	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a promise to express my opinion in favor of our group's proposal. On this occasion, I salute your high council. Dear friends, our group proposal contains some suggestions for the working days and hours of the Turkish Grand National Assembly from July 8th to July 24th. Again, some legislation and proposals on the agenda are offered to change their order. According to this, the End of Terror 629 rows and Enhancing Social Integration have been placed on the agenda in the 3rd place of the Law Charter since 48 hours later -- today, if the group's proposal is adopted by the Supreme General Assembly, it is recommended to begin its talks today. Again, it is highly important for our Ministry of Health in the 615 rows that Turkey's Health Institutes' Presidency be placed in the 4th place of the Bill of the Law, which is also referred to as the end of the 629 rows, and it is recommended that talks be carried out. My dear friends, other than that, some international contracts are being drawn up and proposed to discuss. Hopefully, our Plan and Budget Commission have been running for about a month and a half now, and if they've finished their work and reported the number of lines and come to our agenda this weekend, of course, his talks will be held in the process by July 24th. I look forward to your support of the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0021par0299	Thank you. Mr. Idris Baluken is the first speaker against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0022par0301	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on the group proposal given by the AK PARTY group. I salute you all. Of course, once again, when we look at this group proposal, the AK PARTY operates a way that it knows how to do its own way and put an agenda in front of this House. From the beginning, we have always criticised the running of the Assembly from this platform, and we have invited the EC PARTY to work with other opposition parties on a plan that brings the public's real agenda to the Assembly and works on matters that should have been, but, unfortunately, so far, nothing that has ever emerged from the opposition is considered by the ruling party. In about two or three weeks, Parliament will go on vacation, but its most basic problems remain unresolved, keeping the public's agenda unresolved, continuing to inflict pain on the public, continuing to maintain a social perception that has not gone beyond an expectation of Turkey's fundamental problems, unfortunately. From the beginning, we have repeatedly said that this Assembly must do extensive work on the democratisation of Turkey and on the solution of the Kurdish issue, that this year of legislation should not be wasted, that it should be resolved by the initiative of this Assembly, with such turmoil in the Middle East. Today, a framework law will come to the House; we find it meaningful, but we also have to express that this brought framework law is far from the perception you want to create. So, with the next framework law, the Kurdish issue will be resolved in Turkey, or Turkey will wake up as a democratized country the next day is not right. This is actually the first thing that needs to be done today in this process, which started a year and a half ago, about the solution process. During a year and a half -- because we're late -- the solution process has not reached the desired stage so far, and in this process, the loss of the lives, the loss of the young who exercise their democratic rights, the loss of their lives, unfortunately, has burned our hearts again. We, however, have expressed the need to discuss very comprehensive democraticization laws on the parliamentary agenda, with this framework law being enforced here, and we are re-explaining our views here today. In the very fundamental issues before this Assembly closes, especially with the Kurdish issue and democratization, there is a very serious need for him to do, and we regret to inform you that you did not bring much of this work to the agenda of Parliament. Over the course of a year and a half, 76 million expected us to clean a road, and that was to create a democratic constitution along with road cleaning. Before the session of Parliaments at the Constitutional Compromise Commission began, members of the Commission themselves observed that such a large social demand had been raised, but unfortunately there was no result from the Constitutional Compromise Commission, nor did this Parliament take steps to open the way for democratisation by taking the initiative to clear the way that we talked about. Still standing right where the Anti-Terror Code is. There are obstacles to thinking, expression, freedom of organization. Unfortunately, there are still obstacles to freedom of the press. From the Law of Political Parties to the Election Law, many antidemocratic legal laws still stand before us, ahead of democracy, a barrier to freedoms. Today, at work, there was a marathon about the presidential election. The three candidates will compete, but since these democratisation laws do not exist, since there is no culture involved, this race will be held in an environment of extremely unfair conditions. The prime minister will run the presidential election campaign in this process, which will benefit from the possibilities of the prime minister. Again, our two other political parties are in a position to ask themselves a self-referencing question, because they've never worked a way to resort to the YSK, when such injustices have been done to BDP, or HDP, or to the political tradition that we follow over the years. Now, rightly, when they face this unjust practice, they make a public statement in a situation that complains. We've said over and over again that this Assembly should actually eliminate these inequality conditions, these inequalities between political parties, but unfortunately, this year of legislation will end with a practice that has been so wasted in this respect, that there is no concrete solution. In particular, despite the dizzying developments in the Middle East over the past month, the fact that the Assembly has not held a meeting even once reveals the current picture, whether it follows the real agenda or plans for the real agenda of the people. In the Middle East, borders change within 24 hours, debates about the future of countries are on the agenda, but this Parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, is sadly far from being in a position to inform lawmakers or to set policy with the proposals of lawmakers from the country's will, taking these developments on its agenda. This was the last time the ISIS gangs raided the consulate in Mosul, and it became more and more apparent after they took the consulate officials hostage there. Imagine that dozens of consulate employees were taken hostage, dozens of them unaccounted for, again dozens of truck drivers, citizens of this country were taken hostage, and this country's Parliament does not even need to take the opposition's suggestions on this issue with a briefing meeting on this agenda. While the Secretary of State should be here to come in and inform on this matter over and over again and over and over to 76 million of the opposition parties, we, unfortunately, will end this year of legislation with the practice of a parliament that has never had a discussion about this agenda. And because of that, the danger of ISIS terrorism on the Middle East continues relentlessly, but Turkey's agenda is still silent, as if there were no such problems, from the ruling party or opposition parties outside of us. Today, ISIS gangs have launched a massive wave of attacks along with the weapons they obtained from Mosul, in an effort to commit a complete massacre both south and east and west of Kobani. Many villages of Kobani are involved in a human drama that predicts the evacuation of civilians due to civilian casualties, but in Turkey's politics, such a issue in Turkey's political conjunctive continues to fail to find its rightful place. First of all, we want to express that this is an attitude that harms Turkey's Middle Eastern policy. As the People's Democratic Party and again as the Peace and Democracy Party in the region, we will demonstrate our democratic mass acts against these attacks in Kobani. In this regard, tomorrow, our chosen ones and our people will demonstrate the necessary democratic response, the activism, at Suruç, at the gate of Kobani. This activism will also be a warning to the government. It's about Rojava policy, Kobani policy and Middle Eastern policy...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0023par0312	Thank you, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0022par0313	...that the government should take into account the warnings from here and set a new policy accordingly. If there is a position that ignores the cry in Kobani, who ignores the Kurdish voice in the region in any way, in the coming days, a painful and painful process will come again.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0023par0314	Mr. Baluken, thank you. ISRIS BALUKEN (We, while the road is near, invite the AK PARTY Group and the government to the public's real agenda, where we again recommend that the Assembly conduct debates with the people's true agenda. I salute you all. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, the final speaker is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0024par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I begin my words, I salute you all. Yes, we will work until the 24th of Ramadan, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, with this proposal from the AKP. Now, valued lawmakers, of course, normally in Ramadan, Parliament would always take a vacation, but the AKP has made a unilateral decision on the work. We don't mind working, we don't hesitate, but we need to understand why they're in such a hurry. So for what reason do you want to continue matters so primarily during a time when the House is on vacation, you have to take it very well. Now, when we look at the agenda: One, a law on terrorism is being brought in under the name of the end of terrorism and the strengthening of social integration. In fact, it doesn't say who they're going to fight, the PKK terrorist director, another terrorist director, it's unclear. So if it's DHKP-C or Hezbollah, it's unclear. But beyond that comes a bill of health. After that, a bag of 168 articles -- if I'm not mistaken, if there are no new additions -- is being passed. Now that he's gone beyond the bag, it's probably called "harar." Now, dear lawmakers, why are they in such a hurry? So the law on terrorism, the end of terrorism, that's how long it's been, and it hasn't been said at the time, why is it being brought in today? When we look at it this way, in an interview with CK Co-Chair Cemil Bayık (October 27, 2014) of Özgür Gündem, Cemil Bayık clearly says: "If the law is not passed before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey goes on vacation, then the process is over. It is clearly threatened, and there is a law under that threat. Now, right after that, we're going to have a long discussion there for the future of the law, and we're going to talk about how much it violates the Constitution, disobeys technology, disobeys international rule of law, we're going to review them, we're going to evaluate them, but it's really interesting here... so if Cemil Bayik is talking about the six-point bill here, we're going to take the government and he's going to judge it or he's going to threaten it, he's saying that if the government and state doesn't create an environment that will only create the legal ground for time and if they want to make time and if they want to make its time, we don't want to end up with it, and we're not going to accept it. Now, in the coming days, let's assume that this bill passes through the House. We will immediately see what measures you will take or to what extent you will fulfill the words of Cemil Bayiq. If you say you didn't take it out as a connection, you didn't bring that law, we'll see about that. Have you ever considered what is happening in southeast Asia Minor? For example, Mr. Star, our Minister of Energy, when considering the blackouts in the southeast, said: "In the southeast, the payment rate is 10 percent." Yes, it says 10 percent. Now, if you're strong there, if you're a state, you should have taken some measures against paying 10 per cent, but why can't you take them, and stay at 10 per cent, and why do you charge people other than that under the name of some tax dollars, here's the price of the fugitives, and here's the charge under the name of Åsair? The PKK, again, has urged the public not to pay its electricity bills and has been pressured on the issue. Now, what's really going on in Southeast? In the southeast, the roads are cut off, the flags are lowered from the post. Not only have the military flag been lowered, but see if the flags in the other official apartments really stand still. Other than that, the police and the soldiers are retreated to outposts and barracks. He can't interfere with anything. There's a protest against building a police station, and then, on top of that, the soldiers, the police, the security forces, the Molotoves and so on. The PKK is blocking the road and making an ID check, and doing it 500 feet away from security forces. The gendarmes are not responding to the PKK members who attacked him, they are being investigated for the donors and their weapons are being confiscated. The PKK is receiving tribute from people under the name of tax, setting up a court. The PKK continues to stockpile weapons and militants in cities, and the government knows it, and intelligence knows it, but the governors and security forces can't make any noise because the order came from above. The soldiers are being kidnapped, the road makers are being burned, the rangers are being slaughtered, but the government ignores them under the name of the continuation of the solution process, and they don't pretend to be human, and the statements say that there has been no death until today. Again, the PKK is opening moats to roads, the road to Diyarbakır-Bingöl is closed for 24 days, and traffic is taking another route to places that have been taken. So what would happen if such a situation had happened in any country in Europe or in the United States of America? Imagine, for twenty-four days, the road between the two provinces could have been closed or how long could they have done such a thing? But in this frame, the government is still silent. In fact, the money of the businessmen is being cashed by PKK terrorists, but the security forces are not following them, and, Aman, the process will be damaged. They're making them disappear. Now, when the terrorist leader was arrested in 1999, he said: "Let me go. " He said that he would work for peace, that he would take down all PKK terrorist groups from the mountain in three months. On February 23, 2013, the terrorist leader said: "We'll make the guerrilla bigger in the area where we've been pulled. If we succeed, there'll be no more ACK prisoners or anyone else. If this does not happen, there will be a public war with 50,000 people, and the dead will die, and I will not be involved. Now, the terrorist leader will say that he has been preparing to rebel so publicly, and he will tell us what has to be done, and the government will remain silent. What kind of government are you? What kind of government are you? What do you think you're running? Is this how you run a country? What kind of democracy is that? In what time period did all this take place? From 2003 until 2014, when we arrived, in 12 years. Now, don't think it's going to end up on the dusty shelves of the House. Tomorrow, the history writers will not take any of what you say -- including the Prime Minister -- will write history by applying to those written documents, and they will write about you. Remember, nothing is hidden in history, but it comes out eventually. Dear lawmakers, therefore, the coming of the bill in this way, the trying of the House in this way, is nothing more than a round of votes for the next 10 August presidential elections, but let no one forget that, on the other hand, some incidents are happening abroad, Turkey is considered to be of no concern to the President. Consider ISIS, which, strangely enough, has been a prisoner in the American camps for two years, the Ebubekir Al-Bakdadi, which ISIS declared to be caliph. What did he do during this period, what didn't he do? Why has his name been changed? Given all that, isn't it interesting right now that ISIS never engages in the angst in those areas, just moving towards the Turkmen region? We think that all of this has to mean something, and so I'm declaring that we're against it, no matter how much I take advantage of it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0025par0338	Thank you. Mr. Engin Altay, Sinop MP, is the final speaker against the Justice and Development Party proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. July is hot, July is full of unfortunate memories for Turkey. I, too, condemn the July 2nd Sivas massacre and the July 5th massacre of the Grand Clerks. I expect those responsible to be held accountable in some way before the law, before the public conscience of those responsible who have never really appeared, and I wish that Turkey would never have to go through such painful events again. Of course, Turkey has many reasons for such painful events, but if you ask me, one of the main reasons is that there are no countries that don't account for this land at the very, or rather the most geostrategic point in the world. So everyone who's been stationed in such an important, sensitive, strategic geography, is secretly, treacherously, one way or another, counting on our country. I have no objection to them, but what matters is that the citizens of this country are a tool to these sneaky accounts, whether they know it or not. Here, of course, we politicians have important duties. Members of parliament, Turkey is a country we should really appreciate, a great country, a country we pride in its history; a country we have lived in peace for centuries, with its Kurdish, with its Turkish, with its Laz, with its Lazkı, with its Georgian, with its Arab, with its Albanian, with its Bosniak, with its Bosniak. The preservation of this country's inner peace is above all else. No political purpose, no sacred purpose, is more valuable than the unity, unity, peace of these people in this land, and the inner peace of the country. Now, the ruling party, or rather the government, proposes that the Law Bill 629 be brought to the agenda of the General Assembly today, not more than 48 hours later, and that the General Assembly, with various laws, will work on the agenda of the General Assembly until Thursday (July 24th 2014). Let's work, it's no big deal, but you don't mean to eat grapes. If your intentions were sincere, if they were good, you wouldn't add to the laws that would go behind the law, which would make it easier for you to deal with someone else, to deal with the Soma tragedy, the Soma massacre. Congressmans, members of the Plan Budget Commission have been working for a month. This is against human rights and the principles of work. We said, "Bring Soma, we'll remove the tax pardons in half an hour, we'll get the bonus pardons out in half an hour." No, we'll put it in a single clause that bypasses justice and law and destroys the state of law. If they both pass, don't let it pass, don't let it pass.... How can you be in power like this? What kind of parliament is that? The first duty of this House is to establish law in the interests, interests, and interests of the nation. We don't see good intentions in your group, in the executives of your party. Therefore, this group proposal can pass through here with a majority of fingers. We're going to ask for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to remind our friends here, until July 24th, we want 184 people in these seats, full, complete, and then we don't fight. It's a shame, it's a sin for your MPs. We deal with 15 people here, MHP deals with 10 people, HDP deals with 2 people, and it's a sin for your MPs. Is that an understanding?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0027par0349	Then why did they become MPs?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0350	I mean, in Soma, in Soma, in Soma's tragedy, in Soma's massacre, they open their mouth, open their hands, waiting for news from the state. You're saying: "I'll relieve the officer of his duties, but I won't put him there for two years, even if the court decides." You don't seek intimacy here, you don't seek goodwill. In this regard, members of lawmakers, we don't appreciate your group proposal, and in this group's proposal, we talked about health institutes the last time, which would remain in this group, Mr. Secretary? Now, you're bringing this too. Let's meet on Thursday. Here, as far as the opposition knows, I've spoken to Mr. Halaçoglu -- there's a lot of reservations, and we have a lot of reservations. You don't make laws for your father, we make laws for our father; we make laws for the people. If you're sincere, you'll say: "O opposition, what is your hesitation, my brother?" It's this. We sit down, we talk, you convince us or you convince us.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0027par0351	It was discussed in the subcommittee.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0352	But in a council, it's not all about fighting and incompatibility. The mission of the House is for the nation, everyone here represents the national will. You're not the only one with national will, and the opposition is the national will. I mean, are we against our will, Congressmans, members of the group, deputy presidents, Mr. Secretary? Are we against the law you're going to bring, but just for business?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0028par0353	Give me one day, give me another, give me another.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0354	No doubt there are positive things in the package you brought.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0028par0355	Tell them yes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0029par0356	No small talk, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0357	But we say it's wrong, we say it's not true, we say it's not right, we say it's against the Constitution, we say it's against the law; we can't tell it, we can't make it listen. With that understanding -- I mean, I'm an open-minded man -- what kind of health goes on -- I mean, you'd have a hard time getting over it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0030par0359	What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0360	No, no, of course it will. I mean, we're the Underlaws...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0030par0361	How can you say such a thing to national will? It'll be fine.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0362	Mr. Group Vice President, we use all the rights given to us by the Civil Code, and you will use them.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0030par0363	Use it, for God's sake!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0364	The job of the presidency is to manage the General Assembly fair, unfair, impartially. We're committed to this. Come on, let's compromise in common. There's a lot of things in that bag that people are waiting for. The plan went through a month in the budget. Yeah, shame on you! In the eyes of the nation, the House is coming to a standstill, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0030par0365	Tell that to your lawmakers who talk for hours, Mr. President, who read books.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0366	Why don't you go out and we'll fix this bag, we'll get the law-state principles suspended, we'll get them out of here, we'll get them through there, we'll get them all over Asia Minor. Look, citizen, we've done this for you. What do you have to say to everyone? What about the miners? We were going to do it, the opposition blocked it. Are you going to say that?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0031par0367	That's right.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0368	You'll be ashamed.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0031par0369	That's right.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0370	You'll be ashamed.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0032par0371	That's right.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0372	Shame on you, people don't buy it, people know everything. Here's to 629. The solution is we said yes. Peace, we said yes. Again, we say: "We come to a solution, we come to peace, this flowing blood must stop, or the blood that hasn't been shed in a year must never flow again." The existence of Kurds, cultural rights, human rights... not just for Kurds, but for everyone living in Turkey, we want equality, equal citizenship, but...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0033par0374	There is no but.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0026par0375	...and while we're at it, there's no work. You can't trample on the rule of law. Sir, we'll do it; the CHP will look at the bill positively, and it'll just go away. If there's one thing this Parliament will never do, it's chew it. Against this, it is not to make law against the Constitution -- the legal dimension of the work is not one, not two, not three, not ten, not twenty. Let's do it, let's do it, let's make peace. I see, in history -- I just told you -- rebellion, rebellion, rebellion -- now, a Kurdish-related terror problem: blood, blood, blood, blood -- funeral, funeral, funeral -- this nation doesn't deserve this pain. This problem is over, but while he was doing it, he said: "One President is irresponsible from what he does. "The Constitution has given responsibility only to the President, you cannot hand over to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers can't be irresponsible. So the Parliament can't give the Council of Ministers the authority to grant legal, administrative, criminal irresponsibility. It's a general framework, a framework for the government. And I have to say, the frame that I know is made of two materials, even three, wood, metal, plastic. I don't know if there's any other frame material. This frame of yours is made of rubber. You'll give a rubber frame to the Council of Ministers, no matter how you use it... Yeah, let them do one thing, solve the only problem, all right, but stick to it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The final word is Parliament, the solution to the Kurdish problem, a commission to be held in parliament, not a mandate to be given to the end of the prime minister's two lips. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0034par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0035par0385	We want enough numbers for the meeting.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit01spe0034par0386	I'm going to vote for the Justice and Development Party Group, but there's a roll call. Mr. Vural, Mr. Adan, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Right, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Alan, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Okan, Mr. Yeniçari, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Uzırmak. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Before the ruling of the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Congressmans, can we please be quiet? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/318) I respectfully submit to the meeting of the General Assembly under Article 37 of my original Law Proposal (TBMM Civil Charter). Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak as the bidder. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please be quiet. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0036par0018	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, three years ago, on the fifth anniversary of Hrant Dink, we offered a law on hate crimes. Dear friends, in order for a crime to be a hate crime, it has to be committed for reasons such as religion, language, race, sect, ethnicity, political opinion, gender and sexual orientation difference. Unfortunately, in our history, there are many examples of murders and massacres involving hate crimes. For example, Hrant Dink's murder, the Sivas massacre, the Marass massacre, the massacre of the Pre-Baskets, which we've been in -- we've been in -- could be cited as an example of these hate crimes. On the other hand, the murders that al-Qaeda and derivative gangs have committed in the name of religion and sects, which we are ashamed for humanity, who have consumed us with the same pain, who worship death. I want everyone to take a good look at these, dear friends. These are, unfortunately, murders committed in the name of religion, and these are murders committed by a hate crime. Dear friends, here is the concept of hate crime, countries, peoples, and humanity that are being implemented in all modern countries, and in all modern democracies hate crimes -- laws related to law -- have entered all laws. Dear friends, we have prepared such an offer to stand in the way of religion, sect, politicalist power, for a moment, and unfortunately, the political government carries out the hate crime. There's a government that declares enemies to every people who are not like him, who don't think, and a government that hates people who don't think like themselves to death. Dear friends, the people who have declared 14-year-old Berkin Jonan as a terrorist and who have called Ali Ismail Korkmez, whose only crime is crossing that street in the dark of the night, and who have unfortunately accused CHP MPs of occasionally being terrorists, supporting terrorist organizations, those who slaughtered the 16-year-old boy, those who slaughtered the headless, those who slaughtered the children night and day, those who slaughtered the children just because they were born from different parents. Dear friends, put your hands on your conscience, take a look. Is this the terrorist or the perpetrators? Is this the terrorist, the precious friends, this is the terrorist, this is the terrorist? [[A number of photos were shown by the preacher on the stand.]] The AKP government, and especially the Prime Minister, calls our children, these young ones, the terrorists, and unfortunately, it still can't call these bloody killers, bloody terrorists, and can't describe them as terrorist groups. Here we have two paintings of the AKP's view. Fourteen years old, no weapons in his life, no crime in buying bread, no crime in his hand, a Berkin Jon and a Berkan Elvan, who was booed in the rally squares, and the people who cut off their heads without calling their cult a child, and unfortunately all of these were done in the protection of AKP. And unfortunately, it's the AKP government that supports the weapons leading up to them, which have led to the massacre of these people. Dear friends, look, you have to be blind not to see it anymore. In Reyhanlı, our Sunni citizens were openly discriminated and died. Those who say, "A few judges' sects are ruling the court." Those who say, "They are supporters of a bloody terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria today," who say, "The house of terror in the Flame," who divide the prosecutors according to the sect, and who say, "They are corrupt." And dear friends, we are facing a risk of internal conflict, instability that our country has never experienced in its history. During the AKP, hate crimes have been openly committed in political cases, and unfortunately during the AKP's rule, he has declared everyone who did not think as he did, and who was not himself a terrorist. He wishes that this bill be accepted, that we have a law like this in modern countries, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0037par0032	Thank you. On behalf of an MP, Erzincan MP Muharrem Ik will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0038par0036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Unless, of course, the heart wishes you'd accept this bill so that those who commit hate crimes can be punished. What comes to mind when we call it a hate crime? We need to understand racial discrimination, discrimination in the active background, discrimination in gender, discrimination on those with mental regression, or avoid lynching in society because of their religious preferences. We have to admit that violence against women is a hate crime. Dear MPs, of course, there are political murders that we think of when we call them hate crimes, which have happened a lot in our country. There are also mass killings in Maras, in Çorum, in Sivas, in the chiefs, in Uludere, in Reyhan, in our minds. Of course, when I say the Sivas heads, I'd like to say that the pain in Sivas, just as it has torn the hearts of all those who were human, it breaks the hearts of all men. And I've always been against it, and we'll be against it: it's never acceptable to do so, to show the chieftains to avenge the death of Sivas. If we agree to this, then we will have made up a cover for the chieftains. And we never accept, nor will we, nor do we, for the sake of bringing up events in Sivas. We think that the incident at the heads of the chiefs must have been injured in the same way that the massacre of the people there hurt us from the heart. And we've never seen them as political rants, and we condemn those who see them with hatred. It's always brought up in our country: there are constant statements against religious injustices, but no wisdom is ever done to meet the Aleki's demands. The prime minister gets up, calls the mosque the house of Islambus, the president of the Diabetes, gives a fatwa, tells it never to have its people's legal status; next to it, the MP gets up, the Prime Minister gets up, raises terrorists in the house. He says, "The Alevis without Alevis"; they try to fabricate a phrase from themselves and make the Alevis an enemy of one another. They do it, they commit hate crimes, but when it comes time to do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it. Just Alevis? What rights have other groups of believers been given so far? Here, the European Union has been given the right to a few religious organizations to look cute, but they're only temporary. After December 17th and 25th corruption, there was a total hate crime committed in this country. He stood up, 50 to 50 percent, saying that he wanted to polarize people, to break them together. It's not a hate crime, but what is it? The worst hate crime has been committed in the travel events. A little while ago, my Veli friend told me that they had accused Berkin Evan of being a terrorist in the rally squares and booed his mother. What is this, not a hate crime? The same thing was done for Ali Ismail Korkmaz. The killer officers who killed him were still not found, but the person who shot him was not found. It was decided that the cop who killed Ethem Sarısülük would be arrested yesterday -- somehow, to send his greetings to some place -- we didn't understand what had happened. You fed him so much that you sent the killer cop from here to Urbana to make him feel better -- when the killer cop pulled the gun, we saw him there yesterday, fed, well taken care of.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0039par0045	Oh, shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0038par0046	There's no shame in it. He was supposed to be arrested on the first day. I wish what happened to the cops was done to those dead people. Did 26 lawyers in the Sivas massacre serve as ministers in your various organs, as MPs, as managers or as board members in an institution or not? They all took it. For many years, one of the murderers of Sivas had lived in Sivas, but after he died, you were informed. The same killer who was captured at the Polish-Germany border has not been found. Now, we say: The heads of the chiefs are upon me, and we always go to the chiefs, and we share the pain of the people there, and we go not in fear of waiting for votes, but to share the pain of the people. We know everything, it's about stopping these hate crimes who vote for who, but it's about making sure that people actually live in peace in this country, not 50 percent divided, but brotherly, friendly. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0040par0051	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Ankara MP Nazmi Haluk Özdalga has been nominated for a membership of 1 lawmakers in the European Union's Harmony Commission, which is empty and not part of a political party group. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, we will hold a membership election for former Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, former Interior Minister Muammar Guler, former Minister of the European Union Egemen Dona and former Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar, which is considered the 5/5/2014 Union (9/8).
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0041par0057	Mr. President, sir...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0040par0058	Let me finish what I'm reading, and don't interrupt me. I'll listen to you before I get to the election part, so don't interrupt me, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0041par0059	Well, sir, don't interrupt me either.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0040par0060	Thank you for your understanding.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0041par0061	I'd appreciate it if you'd answer my request on time, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0040par0062	I promised you, I'll talk to you later. You said Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0041par0063	No, after that, I made a request.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0040par0064	I'll finish this process, of course, and I'll give you my word. Members of the Commission to conduct a parliamentary investigation will be identified under Article 100 of the Constitution by taking names from the candidates they have identified as three times the number of members they will give by the power of political parties. The Justice and Development Party 9, Republican People's Party 4, Nationalist Movement Party 1 and Peoples' Democratic Party 1 will be represented with membership. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0042par0067	Mr. President, I have a request to speak later on on on this matter, but first, I would like to say that the House of Parliament has succeeded in obstructing the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Since 5 May 2014, unfortunately, Parliamentary Presidency, along with the Justice and Development Party Group, has together blocked the establishment of the Commission on the Parliamentary investigation of the Grand Assembly of Turkey. It's to ignore national sovereignty; it's to ignore Parliament. I would like to present to you -- on purpose -- in the words of Mr. Bkent Arunc (in the words of the AKP Group) -- that I consider this obstruction to be an insult to the Turkish nation and its will, to the will of the General Assembly. That's what I wanted to say right now.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0070	Thank you. (9/8) We begin the primary parliamentary inquiry commission membership selection.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0044par0072	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0073	I'll have the political parties read the names of the candidates they've tripled for their membership. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0044par0075	Mr. President, Mr. Vural has sent an article concerning the matter expressed by Mr. Vural, including myself. According to this article, we are not allowed to be members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. I'd like to inform the High Council on this matter, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0076	There's no way we can apply to something like this right now, because we're starting the election, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0077	Mr. President, I'd like to open a legal debate on this application.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0078	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0080	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0081	Yes, sir, I...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0082	...let me complete my sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0083	Excuse me, sir!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0084	Well, you didn't let me, Mr. Vural! Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0086	Sir, if that's not the place to talk, that's the explanation. We're the ones talking!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0087	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0088	We'd like to open a discussion of the procedure on this subject. About that...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0089	So, this is due to the implementation of the investigation commission's process?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0045par0090	If it's delayed and not done on time...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0091	Look, I didn't save any money on this, I'm just reading it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0092	You didn't give me a say!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0093	And as far as I know, you know that the procedural debates are based on a savings of the Deputy Speaker or Speaker of Parliament who runs the House. I'm just reading. I don't know what you're going to argue about.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0047par0094	Sir, this is already about your reading. The president's savings, this savings...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0095	The president's savings...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0096	I didn't do anything, I'm just finishing the process, Mr. Honey. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0098	Sir, the President's savings are against the Constitution and the Civil Code. You deny me my say based on his savings, so your attitude is wrong. I'd like to discuss your attitude.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0099	Mr. Honey, you know the Civil Code. In the Civil Charter, the demands of the words are in a certain manner. You're a congressman who's been a member of parliament for a very long time. We don't have a freedom of speech at any time, at any time, in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0100	Today, just a moment ago, your witness is the subject of the House...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0101	I'm going to ask you in particular: please, I'm asking you, when I start a process, I'm going to finish that process, and then I'm going to take your requests, and I'm going to make my decision accordingly. I'm asking you specifically.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0102	Mr. President, if you could ask me, now would be a good time.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0103	Because when you start a process, you ask for a word, and my process is incomplete.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0046par0104	Mr. President, no, sir, you can't, it's time, because you're doing a procedure on the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. There's been an article saying that I personally can't be a member of this Commission, including the procedure. The General Assembly doesn't know about this. Am I an incomplete congressman? Why can't I join the Commission?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0105	Well, then, if you'd made that kind of statement... let me give you an explanation from your position. Here, take your seat...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0048par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0108	Please, Mr. Engin. Now I promise Faruk Bal. I'll come to you in a minute. Here you go, Mr. Honey, just a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0049par0110	What am I going to explain in a minute, Mr. President? I'd rather you didn't, but let me get started and don't interrupt me, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0043par0111	Please, start.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0049par0112	The 550 MPs present have two tasks: one is a political mission, the other is a legal mission. The political mission is to tell the public about the corruption, the theft, as a representative of the nation, and that's what I did. Therefore, it is my duty, my political duty to do so. On the other hand, it's the law's duty to supervise this again within the parliamentary system. As for the investigation of December 15, 17, 25th, if a congressman's criticism is not in favor or against it, he has not served as a member of parliament. Therefore, Article 69 of the Civil Code is an anti-constitutional clause. It is not within his authority that the Parliamentary Speaker not accept my person into the commission by speaking out of respect for this amendment. It's 69... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...is not the role of a member of the government. According to Article 69, member of the investigative commission...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0050par0116	69 or 109, Mr. Honey?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0049par0117	Sir, let me finish, please. Not as much as the authority of a prosecutor. The prosecutor's assistant will do a judgmental procedure. Therefore, it is unconstitutional for the court to submit to the court of the judge's refusal to serve there, so it is against the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitutional Code of Civil Law, which violates the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0050par0119	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0051par0121	Mr. President, I understand that Mr. Oktay Vural has not requested a formal debate regarding your current position; Mr. Vural has requested that the Commission, which was decided to establish Mr. Cemil Cicek, the chairman of the Turkish Parliament on May 5th, be held here sixty-four days later. Besides, if there's not going to be a procedural debate on this matter in the House, in my 12 years of experience, all manner of debates that have been made so far are irregular. I mean, it's necessary to have a formal discussion about something like this. Besides, the Civil Code doesn't leave any savings to the presidency. If there's a demand, especially if the members of the group have such a request, the presidency has a duty to set the time of conversation between one minute and ten minutes. I do, Mr. President. And if you do, I demand a word against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0052par0124	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0053par0125	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0054par0126	Mr. Altay, I'm not going to open up a legal debate. Did I say that you're making this statement?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0055par0127	That's what you said, that's what I figured.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0054par0128	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0056par0129	I'd like some of that, too.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0054par0130	Well, that's a bit of a false explanation. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0057par0132	Mr. President, we'd like to ask that the President of the House be brought up against this executive statement, to discuss a procedure against such a declaration of will, to discuss the formation of this statement.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0054par0133	Okay. OK, VURAL- Against.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0058par0135	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0059par0136	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0060par0137	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0061par0138	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0062par0139	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0063par0140	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0064par0141	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0065par0142	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0143	Wait a minute, guys, I didn't say I wasn't gonna open it yet.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0067par0144	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0068par0145	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0146	One moment, friends, please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0068par0147	Mr. President, I'm here on the committee...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0148	Okay, I'm going to open up a legal debate, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0068par0149	Just a minute, sir. I'm a congressman who's been prevented from taking part in the commission. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0150	No. Now, I'm going to open up a procedural debate, two in favor, two against.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0068par0152	Sir, now, look...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0153	I don't want to get into an argument later.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0068par0154	Mr. Bal, it is not a democratic understanding of your attitude that you didn't give me such an answer.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0066par0155	Mr. Serindağ, please... Mr. Vural, I'm going to have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0069par0157	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0070par0158	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0071par0159	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0072par0160	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0073par0161	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0162	At Lehte Ahmet Aydın, Doğan Kabbat.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0075par0163	Mr. President, I said it in favor first.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0076par0164	Mr. President, why don't you see this place? I raised my hand before everyone else.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0165	I did it by asking the members of the group.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0076par0166	So, okay, why did you give him two words?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0167	If you make a deal with each other, yes, I will.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0077par0168	Who are they promised now?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0076par0169	No, why did you give two of them there, did they raise their hand before me?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0170	I didn't hear you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0078par0171	No, no, this is first.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0172	Wait a minute... I'll read it now, if there's any trouble, any discomfort...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0079par0173	Mr. President, I won't accept it, it won't happen! No way!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0174	Just a minute, Mr. Haydar. Friends, you say freedom, but excuse me for a moment, and I'll express myself freely, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0079par0176	Mr. President, if four groups of vice presidents agree, I'll accept, or I won't.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0177	Now, wait a minute... I'll read what's in favor and against in line with the hands removed, and if there's an agreement between you, yes, I'll change it. Lehte, Ahmet Aydın, Doğan Kabbat; against him, Oktay Vural, Engin Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0080par0179	Mr. President, everyone is a witness, God is a witness, Haydar wanted it before they did.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0180	Who? I may have been wrong. Guys, I might have been wrong. Wait a minute... [[Noises]] I don't hear anything right now, you know? You're all screaming at the same time. If there is no problem, Mr. Doğan Kabbat, I will give to Haydar Bey Doğan Kabbat.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0081par0185	The man sitting next to the vice president of the group, someone wants a favour, that's outrageous, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0186	He's been...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0081par0187	The people sitting next to him, the group wants the deputy president against him, and the congressman next to him wants his friend in favor. That kind of understanding can't happen!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0082par0188	None of your business!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0189	Mr. Sergeant, please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0081par0190	This is non-serious work, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0083par0191	What you do every day.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit02spe0074par0192	I'm taking a ten-minute break. Deal with each other.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0074par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I told you before this, I had a procedural debate. There was a disagreement between the MPs who wanted to talk. I think we've got a match.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0084par0003	It's not done.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0074par0004	Now, I'm going to make one promise at a time.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0085par0005	Who's gonna talk? I asked for it on behalf of the MPs.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0074par0006	Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Mr. Oktay Vural, Mr. Haydar Akar, Mr. Engin Altay. It's based on the transcript. Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0086par0011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Congress, of course, it's very strange to be asked to discuss the procedure. One of our fellow MPs here in particular claimed that the Civil Code was in violation of the Constitution, so he came to discuss it in a manner of speaking. So, in fact, if there is a claim that there is, that there is, that there is a violation of the Constitution of the Civil Code, then there is also the authority that the claim of violation of the Constitution of the Civil Law will go to, which is probably to be confirmed. What we have now is the Constitution, whatever the Civil Code is in effect, if our Parliamentary Presidency has to implement it, it has to be enforced. No, I find this Constitution against the Constitution. There's no such thing as the Constitution. There's no way that anyone can go on the road with such a claim on their own and say, "I won't do it." Therefore, this is not the study of this claim, or the investigative authority, or, in some way, the research authority, or the authority to be removed. That's the first one. Second: Dear friends, the Commission of Investigation is carrying out a judicially qualified mission. Even if we look at the 100th article of our Constitution or the relevant articles of our Civil Code, 107 and further, especially in Article 109, it states that the judges, who, as the judges are on trial, cannot be elected to this commission, if they are in the position to prevent judges from looking at the case or agreeing to the verdict, can't be elected to the Parliamentary Assembly or to this commission, as the judges are. He's performing a judicially qualified mission.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0087par0014	You've done it on purpose for two months. You did it to hide from the public, Ahmet, everyone knows.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0086par0015	Dear friends, the group demanding the establishment of this Commission is the EC PARTY...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0087par0016	You've been waiting for two months on purpose!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0086par0017	... And we thought, let's investigate, let's investigate. We're the ones who say whoever's guilty, whatever they're guilty of, let's discuss all these allegations in the investigation commission and tie them to the investigation commission. Why should we rule it out? But while we're doing that, we're not just giving names, we've gone over them, we've been through them, we've been through them, we've been through them, we've been through them, and no one should be in favor or against them. That's why we've been combing through all the talks on our MPs and on the google. We've made a list. Therefore, there have been objections to the list reported by the opposition, and their objections have been justified, so you will sign under the motion, and you will demand the establishment of an investigation commission. Isn't that nice? In the same way, when you look at the commission authority for the Parliamentary investigation of Article 111 of the Civil Code, you can ask the authorities for help by means of the Commission, the regent or the case.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0088par0020	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0086par0021	The commission is doing everything judges and prosecutors can do. Therefore, I say I'm in favor of the position of the Speaker of the House, and I give all of you my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0089par0024	Let him wait two more months, let him wait two more months.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0090par0025	Thank you. I'm about to go up against...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0091par0027	Mr. President, Mr. Aydın, the General Assembly has misjudged our party.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0092par0028	Oh, for God's sake, I never mentioned it!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0091par0029	We demanded that the commission be established. He said...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0092par0030	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0091par0031	Everyone knows this; 9/4) (9/5) (9/6) and 9/7 (9/7); and if you had demanded it first, yours would have been 9/3. You're holding them while we're here. You're saying we requested them.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0093par0032	Mr. President, he already had a say...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0094par0033	Mr. Altay, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0091par0034	Mr. President, I don't have a say...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0095par0035	He's not making the right statement. I think you should correct that mistake.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0094par0036	Mr. Altay, you have a say, you will speak, then you will. Mr. Faruk Bal, on the other hand...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0096par0038	Mr. President, sir, before that, he referred to the speech I gave when he spoke to the speaker, stating that it was contrary to the Constitution and that it was in accordance with the Civil Code, so he gave me false information, and I would like to make a promise to use my right to answer it, as well as to him.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0094par0039	Mr. Honey, we're having a formal discussion right now...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0097par0040	The teasing later, all right, it's clear.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0094par0041	I didn't hear of any personal bullying. If he gave you the wrong information, I'll give you three minutes, and you can say that. Here you go, three minutes to counter...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0098par0043	When I say in favor of the Speaker of Parliament, I mean, is this the research site, or is this the place where the Civil Code will investigate the violation of the Constitution?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0099par0044	Look, you didn't give it to me first in holy Ramadan, so fix it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0098par0045	Mr. President, I want to fix something. I'm saying the first group to demand this is the AK PARTY Group.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0100par0046	Oh, my God! Fear God, God!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0098par0047	Yes, when Parliament was called to an extraordinary meeting, we wrote in writing: "We will demand the parliamentary investigation commission." They made demands on our words.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0101par0048	I'm sorry. Say, fix it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0102par0049	Mr. Aydın, thank you. The speaker is on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0103par0051	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, there's a photograph and it's very clear. On December 17, 25th, the operations resulted in a series of hours in the government's four ministers' bedrooms, with cash boxes, millions of dollars in shoe boxes, in the ministers' arms. It's a government responsibility, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is responsible for investigating it and investigating it, the need for democracy and regime. The AKP Group rejected investigation motions by opposition parties, including this one. They were brought before the House as an offer to establish a commission of investigations based on their own image, but it was established sixty-four days later, this is the sixty-fiveth day. Why have these names not been given for sixty-five days and given today? When we look ahead, we will see that the picture is very clear because the presidential election will be over in two months, according to the Interior Charter, since this commission is going to be a commission for AKP people to use their consciences to consult the AKP headquarters. Well, that's the point. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the presidential candidate, including millions of unsolicited dollars, and millions of euros, has been postponed so far in order not to question him in the nation's Assembly, not to question him in public, not to question him in public, to hide his responsibilities to the law, including corruption, theft, money laundering, gold trafficking. Of course, people will have to pay for that. These things cannot be hidden, for there is one who knows them all, as there is another who knows them; and nothing can be hidden from him, and he is Zulcelal the Cenab. The fact that your fingers have been lifted up here by the culture of beer, not by reason of reason, will not prevent the Great Creator from knowing and returning the favor, but by means of evidence that our nation will properly appreciate it in the coming process. From this point on, I'd like to share with you the letter the Speaker has sent about many MPs. When he becomes a congressman and he doesn't make a speech about the corruption of millions of dollars, he means that the MP doesn't meet the requirements of his political responsibility, so it's a lack. Legally, valuable lawmakers, it is the duty of parliament's deputy to serve in the investigative commission in parliament to write a report, not even the duty of the prosecution. The General Assembly will take over the prosecution.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0104par0055	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0103par0056	Just a moment, Mr. President. Therefore, in our law, the judge has a motion to decline, but the prosecutor has no objection. Article 109 of the Civil Code is against the 100th article of the Constitution. We're going to press charges before the court. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0105par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0106par0061	Mr. Haydar Akar will speak in Polish. Here, your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0107par0064	Yes, Mr. President, thank you for correcting a mistake. I requested a favourable speech to make it clear that you were doing the right thing. Right, it was the right decision to open up a formal discussion, and for that, I also want to thank you for correcting the wrong. Yeah, we need to see how we got into this investigation, what happened, actually. Yes, the government's four ministers who have been involved in corruption, corruption, have been prepared for a trial and sent to Parliament by the state's prosecutors again. Remember those days, when the Speaker had the same attitude and what did he do? He's probably hiding these arguments. Who'd he hide it from? He has hidden it from the MPs, and has kept it a secret from the people. What did he do next? And then the Speaker sent these proceedings back. Why? He sent it back claiming it wasn't in order, and the prosecutors that the government had changed it, not the prosecutors who've been conducting this investigation for the past two years, but the prosecutors he's changed it to, he's prepared a new trial and sent it to where? He's been sent to Congress. It wasn't enough, it wasn't enough, but what did the Speaker do for a while longer by hiding these arguments and delaying the work, pushing him into the presidential election? There were motions for parliamentary investigations to be discussed later. Again, as the group's deputy leader said, the AKP has issued a wrong parliamentary inquiry motion, while the Republican People's Party has done its work long before that, and the other political parties have done the necessary work to open the parliamentary investigation much earlier than that. It's fair to say on this stand, you won't fool the citizen. You will not do this to hide thefts, corruption, to negotiate after the presidency. The Speaker has to be neutral. The Speaker lost his neutrality in this case, cheated on the nation, cheated on the MPs. From here on out, I condemn the Speaker for his attitude. No one will ever forget the December 17th and December 25th investigation. No one will forget the boxes in the ministers' homes, the millions of dollars in the children's homes, the millions in the bank manager's house, no one will forget the 700 billion watches on the minister's arm, and you won't forget it. Today, with your majority of fingers, maybe you'll clear these commissions, but one day you'll have to pay for it. There's no escape from the people, you won't be able to escape. You can choose, you can call it the national will from the chest... but in the end, you're going to give this account, as there are examples in the world, no one has ever been able to escape from it. I agree with my deputy, and if an MP hasn't expressed his opinion on the December 17th and 25th case of theft and corruption, then he's not doing what the citizen has given him, in favor of him and against him, he's not doing the job. The citizen doesn't send you here to swear, to raise your hands, to lift your fingers for one person; he says, "I send you to protect the citizens' money, to protect the people's stamps."
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0108par0071	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0109par0072	Ihsanoğlu has been imposed, you have accepted, what will you speak of.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0110par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0108par0074	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0110par0075	Now, Mr. Orator Ahmet Aydın gave false information to the General Assembly, and he said: "This is a prosecution procedure." He said, "That's right, I agree." He said, "It is necessary to refuse, its neutrality falls into the shadow." Here, anywhere in our laws, he's a lawyer, and you're a lawyer -- the prosecutor's rejection is not in our law, the prosecutor can't be denied. Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tanal, we're having a formal discussion. If anyone is to be rejected, there will be a court of law. You can't run a motion to dismiss lawmakers from here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0111par0078	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0110par0079	It can only be a matter of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0111par0080	I'm about to go up against... Mr. Tanal, we're having a formal discussion.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0110par0082	I get it, but I mean, the technique...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0111par0083	And I'll promise the last speaker, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0110par0084	Dear President, I mean, the General Assembly is being misinformed, given false information to the public, and you know it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0111par0085	Your vice president of the group will speak now, and he will say the same thing. I give you my word against Mr. Engin Altay of Sinop. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0112par0088	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to hand over my right to Mr. Ali Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0111par0089	Mr. Ali Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0113par0091	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Group, and I also want to thank our Deputy President. Mr. President, I wish Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was here so that we could express the outcome of his transaction to his face. Mr. Cemil Cicek, unfortunately the Turkish Grand National Assembly has lost its reputation, has been disabled, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been transformed into an institution where a formality has been carried out. This will not be remembered for no, and Cemil Flower will not part with no. Look, your deputies have gathered, the ministers have presented. Well, then, how did you make a statement among the MPs? And didn't we just announce the corruption of December 17th and 25th, as the speakers before me stated, the greatest corruption of the century, the corruption of December 17th and 25th? Mr. Speaker vetoed it, although the veto remained in September 12th. You know, the Kenan Universe vetoed the candidates for Congress. Mr. Cemil Cicek is vetoing lawmakers who will now be in charge of the commission. Look, do you see where we've come from, where we've come from? In fact, you should object to that. So we weren't going to talk about these allegations of corruption because we were in charge? Look, what I'm saying, I'm paying attention to you, I mean, he sent this to me as evidence: at this moment, an organization that infiltrated state institutions, particularly the judiciary and the police, acted not by its supervisor, but by orders and instructions from the executives of the organization. Says who? It says the Prime Minister. What did the Prime Minister say before? ▪ The separation of forces is a liability. So who is that structure, what is its name, how is it, who has helped it to emerge or form it? You have a duty to explain it. Otherwise, you won't be able to get rid of the perception of having brought this proposal to prevent corruption and bribery. My dear friends, do you have an opinion here? Does it fit your conscience, do you tolerate it, how do you explain it to the public? Mr. Cemil Cicek has condemned the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Cemil Cicek did not allow the proceedings to be examined by lawmakers. Mr. Cemil Cicek has been trying to cover up corruption. It certainly doesn't suit a Speaker. My dear friends, first of all, you have to stand up to this. You need to ask the Speaker for an account. We, all of us, are lawmakers and representatives of the people. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0114par0099	Thank you. Congressmans, I'd like to make a request. Mr. Serindağ, if Mr. Cemil Cicek were here, you would have said all this to his face.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0113par0101	It'd be better.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0114par0102	Right, I agree. But Mr. Flower isn't here, and there's no way he can express what he has to say. He's the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'd like to inform you that we need to be a little more sensitive about this.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0113par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0115par0105	How can we be more sensitive?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0116par0106	He's the president, but he's not our boss.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0107	Congressmans, in Article 109 of the Interior Charter, those who have signed the motion to investigate and those who are outside the Parliament...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0115par0108	He's covering up AKP's thefts.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0118par0109	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0110	...that lawmakers cannot be elected to the commission and that the election will be carried out in the presidential manner. President of the House...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0118par0111	Mr. President, sir, on what terms...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0112	If you'll excuse me, I'll complete my procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0118par0113	...in accordance with my words...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0114	I'll give you my word. Please, I beg you, I promise you, don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0118par0115	Sir, you don't need to ask me now. On what account did you make such a statement?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0116	In accordance with the judicial mandate of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the right to a fair trial of the basic principles of criminal law, neutrality and conscience, by means of the extradition procedure of the indictment, Parliamentary Assembly has made a statement to political parties about the possible objections and assessments that may be made in the future with the Supreme Court, as well as the past practices of Article 109 of the Interior Charter, as well as the results of the examinations on social media and Parliament's regulations. The political party groups have also reported their new candidates. The opening of the parliamentary investigation was approved on 5 May 2014 at the General Assembly. Statement of members of the presidential Commission was requested by political parties on 12 May 2014. The National Movement Party and Peoples' Democratic Party groups announced their candidates on 13 May 2014. The Republican People's Party announced its candidates on 15 May 2014. On 26 May 2014, he was appointed president of the AK PARTY Group. As a result of the assessments given by the Interior Charter, the candidates should be covered by the nationalist Movement Party and Republican People's Party, the presidency demanded new candidate notifications in writing on June 2, 2014, instead of candidates determined to prevent them from becoming members. On June 17, the Republican People's Party announced new names by the National Movement Party on June 20th. The EC PARTY Group announced its candidacy on 26 June. New candidates have been requested as presidents on June 30th; new candidates have been announced on July 3, 2014. As it turns out, the presidential has attempted to conduct the process of candidate notification through correspondence, to meet the Civil Code provisions. As chairman of the merger, there is nothing I can do to prevent the process from happening this way. As far as we're concerned, the membership election will now be held. Congressmans, we are starting the selection of members of Parliamentary Investigation Commission (9/8). I'm having political parties read the names of the candidates they've tripled for their membership: (9/8) Main-numbered Parliamentary Investigation Commission Memberships Candidate List Justice and Development Party [[27]] [[12]] [[3]] [[3]] We'll start with the candidates from the Justice and Development Party. We'll pick nine members...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0119par0152	He'll draw up the court clerk and give it to you, so read it. Have the court clerk read it and then give it to you, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0153	Hakkı Villager, Kastamon MP.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0119par0154	It's predetermined. We don't trust you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0155	Mustafa Akış, Ionya.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0119par0156	Show it to the court clerk. No, let him see it, sir. How do you know the names aren't predetermined?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0157	Yusuf Basher, Yozgat.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0120par0158	Show us what's in the bag.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0121par0159	Have respect for your friend on the couch.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0160	Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu, Bursa. Bilal Flyer, Denizli.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0122par0162	I want your word on your attitude. You're being biased, you're not being impartial.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0163	First Encesous, Aksaray. Ayşe Türkmenoğlu, Konya.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0123par0165	Obviously, here, you've already appointed Hakkah as president, so let him go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0117par0166	Ismet Su, Bursa. Yilmaz Bronze, Bartin.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0124par0168	Read the rest, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0125par0169	Sir, read the others.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0126par0170	It's not a lottery, Mr. President, it's not a lottery. You're being biased.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0127par0171	You have no respect for your friend on the couch. You have no respect for the councilman, your own friend.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0128par0172	It's a dirty thing to do, but I'll do it. I read the rest: Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amasya...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0129par0174	It's a real shame. Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0128par0175	Hamza Mountain, Izmir. I'm not afraid of anything, so I'm doing it. Adam Greendal, Hatay. Hilmi Scholar, Sivas.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0130par0179	Shame on you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0131par0180	He thinks of everyone as his own.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0128par0181	Mehmet Doğan Kubat, İstanbul. Fatih Şahin, Ankara. Kerim Özkul, Iconya. Muzafer Aslan, Kırşehir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0132par0185	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0128par0186	Let's do it... maybe they'll get a little uncomfortable when it comes to it. Fahrettin Poyraz, Bilek. Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, Adana. Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale. Shuay Albay, Elazig. Ali Ihsan Yavuz, Sakarya. Hakan Sergeant, Bursa. Ebubekir Secretarder, Nevşehir. Mehmet Altay, baneman. Harun Shotgunsman, Ionya. Semiha Öyüş, Aydın. All right? Okay.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0133par0198	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0134par0199	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0135par0200	There's nothing wrong!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0133par0201	You have no respect for your friend, your friend!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0202	Okay, let's move on to the other party. I'm going to vote four members out of the Republican People's Party nominees: Reza Mahmut Çürmen, İzmir. Erdal Aksunger, İzmir. Haluk Eyidoğan, İstanbul. Namik Havutça, Balıkesir. Shall I have the others read, my friends?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0137par0209	No need, Mr. President, we believe.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0210	Thank you, thank you. Don't read the others. Now, I'm going to select a single member of the National Movement Party candidate by choice: Jesus, Sky, Mersin.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0138par0213	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0214	▪ Jesus came out of the sky. Look, if you'd like to...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0138par0215	Okay, but what's Jesus Sky doing in our bag, sir?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0216	It's stuck in the CHP, probably didn't come out when it spilled.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0139par0218	You guys overdid the roof thing.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0219	Guys, it's all happening so transparently, in front of everyone.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0139par0221	President, is the roof in the bag or what?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0140par0222	How do you know ours isn't there? How do you know there's no extra in there?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0223	Just one left in the bag, please, while I'm turning it around.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0140par0224	Then the other one is missing, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0225	No, he left it there when he spilled the same bag.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0140par0226	Read our candidates again, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit03spe0136par0227	I'll read it. I'm going to read the National Movement Party candidates into an empty bag. I read the candidates: Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla; Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash; Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya. Now let me mix it up a little bit. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash. Now, we're going to identify one of the candidates for the People's Democratic Party. I read your candidates: İbrahim Ayhan, Şanlıurfa; Bengi Yıldız, Batman; Erol Dora, Mardin. Bengi Star, Batman. (9/8) The main parliamentary inquiry commission's membership election has been completed. On Wednesday (July 9, 2014), which is tomorrow (July 9, 2014) at 4:00 p.m., the main building, the 2nd floor, the parliamentary investigation commissions in the meeting room, I would like to ask the president, the vice president, the spokesman, and the clerk to hold the election. The meeting will also be on the electronic bulletin boards for the day and time. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0136par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the draft of the Law and the Interior Commission Report on Ending Terror and Enhancing Social Integration. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 629 rows. Now, we'll begin negotiations on the entire bill. The first speaker is İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0141par0020	Mr. President, valuable representatives, in fact, if we recall the 2011 elections, all political parties had come to this House, promising a new constitution. Why did we need a new constitution? A new constitution could basically be said to ensure our peace and remove legal and constitutional barriers from the fascist junta laws in front of this peace. We haven't been able to make the new constitution, but all the methods and methods to be tried on this matter have been tried. All institutions, organizations and individuals have taken positive or negative initiative in this matter, not only did the Parliament, which has used its highest authority over legislation and sovereignty, become involved in this effort, what a pity. Today is the day the Grand Council will take initiative in this matter. I'd like to start by saying thank you to everyone who's worked, contributed, made suggestions. We don't know what the next few years will show, but if we want a legislature that will bring equality and freedom to this country, if we want to create an equalist, democratic, embracing community contract in Turkey, we need to address this bill today, which is the reason for our meeting here. In order to keep our promise of peace to the people, we need to get the bill in the right way through this House and step forward for peace. Because this bill is just as important to the peace that we all desire for it to come as the struggle for the beginning of the negotiations for the solution process. That is exactly why we must be careful not to hurt the bond between the concepts of peace and the concepts of peace. With the government's signature, the text, motive, and proposed law clauses are of serious importance not only for the future of the Republic of Turkey, but also for the near future of the Middle East. That's why every word and every word means that it deserves a different amount of attention. In light of the modern-day Turkish and Middle East-changing conjunctive and fighting styles, which are often applied for in the grounds of the proposal of the law, it is technically not enough to explain it, but it renews the expression of state-run ideology, which is strengthened by coups from the mononational structure of Turkey. However, the solution process and the support that society has shown for the solution process have also shown that the Kurdish issue in Turkey cannot be referred to as a problem or a problem of terrorism. It should be addressed as a national problem. Nor is it enough to call it the Kurdish problem, or the Turkish problem, on its own. Given that in many dimensions, economic, social, cultural and psychological, the crisis of identity of society affects all the shareholders in the community, we need to remember that the draft law and the solution that he discussed today will serve as guidance during Turkey's period of self-determination and description. In this context, I must say, in particular, that the way the problem is defined is not satisfactory enough, but that the goodwill of the speech on the resolution bill is certainly not neglectable. We are confident that such significant identification errors will be solved in the process of legalisation of the solution process, as well as the name of the problem. As it is known, many things have happened and changed in both Turkey and the Middle East, simultaneously with the process and talks of a solution between power and Kurdish political actors. There have been developments that have caused a lot of people to suffer, including the TK operations and the isolation of Kurdish public leader Ocalan. During the time of the conflict, we lost our children. As it is known, the guerrilla has partially withdrawn from Turkey's territory, announced their open will to an honorable peace in interviews with them, and the most important figures of the Kurdish freedom movement and Kurdish diaspora have made the process clear with statements that stand alongside the solution process and peace. The reason for this is to clarify the intentions and savings of all subjects of the process described only in the form of one-sided efforts of the state in the text of motive, particularly the cold-blooded attitude of the Kurdish freedom movement and the fact that the 2013 Nevroz called for peace to Mesopotamia, and to give them a right. In this context, even though the government's signature is the solution under the bill, we must not ignore the efforts of all the partners of the settlement and peace to the point of legalisation. Responsibilities to the parties during this very period are also evident in the proposal of this law. The expression "violence and the removal of the weapon" in the text of motive applies to all accounts. For example, it is an important requirement for the government to stop controlling its own military and legal powers because peace is not in the monopoly of the government or the guerrilla, but it is in the common responsibility of everyone involved in this process, all of our citizens. At this point, we need to take a look at the articles of the law. While trying to explain the purpose and scope of the package, the failure to mention the name of the problem arises here, too. It has to be known that we cannot solve a problem that we are inadequate to name. The government's best use of its powers to ensure social integration should be focused, as in the process of intelligent people, not on quick and undetermined tactics, but on methods that can facilitate and promote social acceptance. As well as disarming, the government must review policies based on pressure devices of the state in the region, particularly the goalkeepers, to show the respect of Kurdish people's rights and freedoms, not only with expectations, but actively, by their will. It must not be forgotten that what is required is not a specific arrangement, but a complete democratization of our country, our common country. Although the government often calls the tactics and strategies predicted for the return of gun-laden members to social life and integration and harmony, the general terminology advocates, especially the Kurdish people. Because all parts of society were part of this war process, and the same is true for peace. If there is to be a reference to rehabilitation, it is appropriate to use it mainly on those who have been looking for opportunities to implement the Sri Lanka model, who have seen weapons and destruction as a solution since the past. The peace processes of the world have also shown that peace should appeal, influence, and persuade not only to those who have weapons in their hands, but also to all those who are under the influence of war. The concepts of corresponding harmony and integration will be more accurate and more appropriate for the process, rather than the word "rehabilitation" used for disease and traumas. Because it's not the people the problem affects, it's the state ideology and the system that causes the problem to emerge. If there will also be rehabilitation, it is also known to all the public that we are ready to say your name and contribute to the solution of the state's systematic problems. An integration based on positive discrimination must be made possible, instead of a process called rehabitation, that should not be negatively stable in the process of the establishment of peace. It is another obligation for the government to take responsible steps, correct the name of the problem, to come up with a serious and detailed plan for the legal savings of its shareholders. Because the information of the public action stated in Article 2 is historically important in terms of the resolution process and in terms of the peace that we hope will follow. Many political subjects in Turkey, including the main opposition party, have voiced their demands on transparency of the solution process. Once again, we thank all of you for your positive contribution. In addition to being responsible for providing this information, the government must ensure that it is done fully. An open communication logic, which is controlled by more transparent and neutral political observers, should be replaced by the singleness of the language based on a unilateral ephemeral in the overall basis text. In order to preserve the dignity of the process and the process, the government must implement a transparent, open execution to society as soon as possible. However, it should not be forgotten that a large peace can be achieved that includes all its shareholders. The solution process needs to be transparency that all political actors who want to be involved can meet with all their main actors, especially Mr. Ocalan. In the same way, these political subjects should be given the necessary opportunities, opening the way for the most important partners of the peace process to talk to representatives from different parts of society, allowing the process to socialise. The biggest lack of the current state of the law is that a process that has already begun today will ensure legal security. This means that no one who has ever served within the government's knowledge, including the solution process, has been guaranteed what they have done so far. In this context, all partners of the process and process must be granted legal security. This will also be an important step in preventing possible legal assassinations in the process. Because no one should doubt the safety and future of society when it fulfills itself and its responsibility for peace. The Women's Initiative for Peace has held a conference called Women's Resolving Process on Peace, and has prepared a declaration of results. As far as we're concerned, the report, which contains very meaningful insights into the drafting of the law and its scope, requires that women's initiatives meet with the partners of the process. The woman's mind -- in this process -- is extremely necessary for women to participate in a manly, militantized system. The Process Act is not enough on its own. The Grand National Assembly and the Government, as of today and in retrospect, must take initiative to address the Kurdish problem and the problems around it, which are focused on the solution process. Because after the legalisation of the solution process, the current legislative process must be carried out in accordance with the spirit of this honorable process. For example, it is imperative that a Turkish name be given to private schools, with only a certain meaning, should be given to them, for example, to make changes to the National Ministry of Education Special Teaching Institutions regulations published in the Official Gazette, July 5th. In general, this arrangement will provide a comical conclusion, such as the unnamed language of private schools, thought to be able to train in the main language in the context of the democratic package praised by the Prime Minister. This may be a small but overall manifestation of the singular logic reflected in the spirit of Turkey's general legislative processes. As long as the laws on this logic are not cleared, it must be acknowledged that the solution process itself will be of no use as long as it continues to be carried out, that the process of solutions will not be sufficient alone. We are in a session that will be recorded in terms of the history of Turkey and the Middle East peoples. This session, the law that will be passed today, will be taught as a lesson in the future, just as it is in other peace processes around the world. The legal state of this law and the process of resolution may be modelled in other solutions and peace processes in the future. Our greatest interest in what happens in this room is that they will criticize this step for peace, for solutions, but if they do, they will refuse to do so at the level of a third grade elementary school or the walls of September 12th prison. Instead of asking how to move forward a common democratic republic, those who think about how to punish those involved in the process of solutions, those who wait to be judged will be ashamed in the face of history. The solution process must include and be open to everyone, such as parties, NGOs, international opinion groups, which are not represented in parliament. For those who do not strive for peace, who do not go out in peace, who are afraid to sign for peace, will share the sin of death and war. We're sure that everyone involved in this process is aware of the importance of this bill and of the form in which the framework of this bill will reach. The solution is the only horizon in the creation of a new Middle East, a new Turkey. It is this House's duty to do so in the most rational way when we have the power to change the fate of this land in war with peace. It is unacceptable to use the authority given to us by the public on June 12, 2011, as a weapon to return to the community, to turn down the voice of democratic politics and cut off those who want to solve it. This is peace, where soldiers and guerrilla mothers sit at the same table waiting for it to end, and their fountains dry from tears for it. This peace is the most important factor in Turkey's many critical steps, including the European Union process. It is in our hands today to build the only and true peace republic in the Middle East. Now, that's the kind of framework law we have ahead of us. The more we contribute to this picture, the more we do, the more positive and the better it will be for the future. As a last word, we must remember that the hand of one who holds peace will never be soiled, nor will his face be white in both cases. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0142par0050	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep will speak.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0143par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration. I salute your high council. Members of parliament, the end of terrorism, Turkey's most fundamental problem, and the peaceful resolution of the Kurdish issue are one of the important demands of our people. As the Republican People's Party, we feel that social peace can be achieved with an individual-oriented, egalitarian, and liberal approach, and as the main opposition party, we continue our efforts and efforts. However, Mr. Prime Minister and his party have often followed a course of political and self-interest, which is inconsistent, conflicted and untrusted, as far as they've been following in the way of solving the Kurdish issue so far. The AKP has thus far tried to conduct the process without responsibility by exclusing the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. The problem was first called the Kurdish Openment, then the National Union and Association Project, and then the Process of Solutions. The Prime Minister sometimes mentioned hanging Ocalan, sometimes stated that the immunity of the BDP MPs would be lifted, sometimes one nation, one country, one language, one flag. This is the government's proposal for a solution. We don't have a text, and you don't have one. However, the Republican People's Party has drawn up reports over time on this problem, making it clear what kind of solution it proposes in the congressional declarations. In fact, the lack of a democratic environment to discuss this problem and other problems that exist in our country is the biggest obstacle to solving these problems. We think it is difficult to get a healthy result in resolving the Kurdish issue, as in other problems, without a democratic debate in Turkey. In that case, Prime Minister Erdogan and the government must first create a democratic environment in which democracy operates with all institutions and rules throughout Turkey. However, it is with regret that the government is following a policy that is unintelligible. In fact, Prime Minister Erdogan is becoming increasingly authoritarian. On April 23, what he said to the boy who sat in his place was that you are now the Prime Minister, whether you hang him or cut him off. He is trying to dominate his understanding. His attitude during the presidential election clearly shows that he is delusional about one man. It's a lesson to our nation to see how he's using government resources in a wild manner. It can't be expected, in fact, to develop democracy and create a democratic environment from a person who can't even afford a democratic race with his opponents. If Mr. Erdogan is elected president, Turkey will be thrown into greater chaos and the rest of democracy's sediment will be destroyed. In fact, Mr. Interior Minister said, "We can't solve problems by referring to the current Constitution in the Interior Commission." He expressed a general understanding. Congressmans, this is a direct constitutional coup. Look, how does the Turkish Language Foundation's dictionary define the coup? After December 17th-25th, however, after their operations, the Turkish Language Foundation, you know, changed the definition of the coup. I read what it means after the change: the job of putting pressure on a country, using force or democratic means to resign the government or to overthrow the government in a way that changes the regime is defined as a coup. From the speech of Mr. Erdoğan, it is clear that he will try to change the regime if the president is elected. The Constitution reveals its words that it will put it on hold. However, the President's powers are stated in the Constitution. Everyone must comply with this requirement, including Prime Minister Erdogan. See, the 11th Article of the Constitution states that the 11th Article of the Constitution is the basic rule of law that connects the Constitutional provisions, legislative, executive and judicial bodies, administrative authorities, and other institutions and persons. Mr. Erdoğan has stated that he will publicly suspend the Constitution with his words and actions; this is a coup. Members of parliament still remember the dictators who led the world and the world to disaster and became involved with the election. So, what's to be done? What needs to be done is to strengthen the Grand National Assembly of Turkey because this Parliament is a Parliament that takes sovereignty from the king and gives its sovereignty to the nation, because it is a Parliament that led the national struggle, because it is the Veteran Assembly, because it is the Parliament that founded the Parliament, because it is the Parliament that has made the Revolution of Enlightenment, because it is a Parliament that leads Turkey to modern civilization. So we say that this Parliament is the solution to all problems. Members of parliament, we believe that the solution to this problem we are discussing is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But we regret to see that in recent years, this Parliament has been rendered a dysfunctional institution, which has been used as a means of covering up corruption by the secrecy of the proceedings from lawmakers. Of course, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a large share in this. There will be no good for the Speaker of Parliament this semester. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Republican People's Party, we support steps that will lead to a permanent solution to the Kurdish issue, with sincere and healthy results, but we don't respect political accounts based on non-since we are in favor of permanent, sustainable social peace. Mr. Prime Minister and the government have so far seen terrorism and the Kurdish issue as a matter of AKP, which has been reduced to political accounts, not to society, and has approached the issue as an issue that will bring political gain to the government and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The fact that this bill was discussed in our commission the day after Mr. Erdogan's candidacy was announced confirms our concerns and concerns. Whereas we, lawmakers, are predicting a democratic, social, social consensus-based and sustainable solution, maintaining our country's security with its geographical and national integrity. The government has reduced this process to the withdrawal of the PKK (PKK) and the silence of the weapons. Of course, it's important to keep the guns quiet, but it's a temporary comfort in society, but it shouldn't be seen to be enough. Sufficient are the MPs, who have announced that the PKK has given up all acts of terrorism and violence against the Republic of Turkey and will surrender its weapons. We'd like to point out that this is vital to the solution to the problem. Also, I would like to point out that the prerequisite for reaching an inclusive, permanent and sustainable solution is the correct way. Therefore, the Republican People's Party issued the proposed two-legged method in June 2012 to Mr. Erdoğan, the AKP's President. The first leg of this proposal was the establishment of the Social Covenant Commission in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and its second leg was the creation of a group of intelligent people who would work on this commission, except for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party wanted to stress that the solution to this proposal was Turkey's Grand National Assembly and that it could be resolved by social consensus, but Mr. Erdogan and the government continued to use a separative, polarizing language that ignored these proposals. Mr. Erdogan has formed a delegation of rational men whose members have been appointed by the government, acting according to the government's instructions and reporting the results of their work to the government, excluding the Turkish Parliament from its resolutions and resolutions. Unfortunately, we were only able to learn what happened from the statements of HDP MPs who discussed it with Ocalan. This is a sorrow and a reminder. A large number of proposals for democraticisation, freedoms and human rights by Republican People's Party MPs to Turkey's Grand National Assembly have been ignored by the AKP. The Justice and Development Party did not want to change the laws adopted during the coup d'etat period of September 12th. Our demands on this road have been ignored. Mr. Prime Minister, it's almost as if he's taken refuge in September 12th law, and even further back with some changes made. We argue that democracy, law state, human rights and freedoms must be based on the full equality of social peace and citizens. Individual rights and freedoms are the mortars of democracy, equality, the unitary state structure. We think the concept of collective rights is a prerequisite of social dissociation. Congressmans, I'd like to tell you what a young girl from Sivas told you, what this young girl from Sivas said, Mr. President also took part in the 1999 opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: there is one Turkey, it is our country, it is everything, and it belongs to all of us. It is our duty to pierce the darkness with the fire of Mustafa Kemal and glorify him with giant breakthroughs, to proudly sign his name to the most distant stars. Our mother deserves happiness more than any land. Yes, lawmakers, this country belongs to all of us. This republic belongs to all of us. During the meeting of this bill in the Commission, lawmakers and government members of the Justice and Development Party, as usual, have listened to the criticism of opposition lawmakers, and continued their approach to disregarding proposals. Essentially, a significant portion of the arrangements brought in this bill are regulations in the Law on the Agency and its duties of Public Order and Security Undersecretary 5952. In addition, the duties the government already has to do, which it has to do in other words, are given to the government for the second time. For example, regulations in the draft text, such as the government's accurate and timely public information, the implementation of the required legislation, are already among the usual duties of the government. Since the draft text of the bill was rightly informed by the government of the public, then the government has assumed that it has not informed the public properly so far. Then why did the government need this bill? Why did the government bring this bill to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey now? At a time when the presidential election took place, doesn't it make sense to the members of parliament that this bill was brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? The date he was presented to parliament was just before the nomination. It's a pity that the political profit calculations are being done, and it's gaining weight. Because the AKP and Mr. Erdogan have been able to use problems as usual instead of solving problems so far. Besides, this bill has been brought to Parliament's agenda, but it seems that the government and Erdogan are still hiding more from the public and the Parliament. The Justice and Development Party continues to follow a policy free of transparency and transparency in accordance with its general stance. The comments of some lawmakers mentioned in the Commission also confirm that view. The government is given uncertain, uncertain, open-ended tasks, and it is not known what these tasks are or how to fulfill them. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is being shut down again. The law proposal, given by İstanbul MP Tanrıkulu and envisioned the establishment of a consensus commission and a joint intellectual delegation, was not combined with this bill in the Commission. The second joke of Article 4 of this bill is incompatible with the principles of the state of law, lawmakers. The joke states that the legal, administrative, and criminal responsibility of those who carry out the duties provided under this Law is not born. Doing the duties of the law does not constitute a crime. Since when is it a crime to perform the duties of the law that such a sentence has been added to the bill? However, acts that abuse the duties of the law, neglect its duty, and so on are crimes, which are incompatible with the general principles of the law and contrary to our Constitution. Such an arrangement has previously been envisioned by the State Intelligence Services and the National Intelligence Service Act, and the Republican People's Party Group carried it to the Constitutional Court. The arrangement brought together by this joke will cause new unsolveds, dark relationships, to be brought up again, or used as an excuse to cover up events like this that have occurred so far in society, to create out-of-control formations that could lead to new gangs. It seems this arrangement is being carried out, members of parliament, in fear of the community. The congregation has terrified Prime Minister Erdogan and the government, it seems. Because it is possible to see the shadow of the congregation in all the regulations that were made after December 17th, and the shadow of the congregation is in all the arrangements. The Prime Minister and the government are so intimidated by the congregation, they must know what the congregation is capable of because they know one person best friend. E, they've been running the country together so far, almost coalition partners. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister sent the Deputy Prime Minister to Pennsylvania, where he received instructions from Fethullah Gulen. Deputy Prime Minister Arinc has expressed it himself. But now he's running around the square saying "Pensilvania" and saying nothing more. Well, until yesterday, you -- as the Prime Minister put it -- were working together, what happened? You know where the secret is, on December 17th and 25th. Mr. Erdogan and the government took advantage of this Pennsylvania story and wanted to design the judiciary in its own way, but it should be known that he had thought so before, but it didn't turn out the way he thought it would. Members of parliament, this issue must be addressed without excluding the sizes such as democracy, human rights and freedoms, in accordance with a broad and comprehensive social agreement that the government will be involved in, in accordance with the principles and rules of the law, regardless of special interests and political purposes, says the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the opposition and the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0144par0077	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Oktay Vural will speak. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0145par0081	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give you all my regards. Dear lawmakers, the bill that we're meeting here today is actually called Terminating Terror and Enhancing Social Integration, but it's actually the bill of the law to bring terrorism to its political objectives and deepen social division. So, while this is the envelope, its content, its content, its aim, its political purpose, its goals, its aims are to legitimise the terrorist organization, to achieve a new political structure, a state and nation structure, in this way a social and state structure based on ethnic and sects today in the Middle East. In this regard, that's the name of this bill, valued lawmakers. Look, we all share the sovereignty of this nation together. It is the duty of every MP to question the legitimacy of those goals, to know the purpose of your support for the government with the votes we will use here today. Those who exercise the sovereignty of this nation, those who use this nation's national will, not only the national will, but the will of those who keep us alive as a nation, those who founded the republic and those who brought us here in the national struggle. So there's no need to play games about these things. It is the nation's duty to see such dangers in these matters and to take a stand in the face of these dangers. When it suits you, when it suits you, the national unity, the brotherhood project is a plan of a political mind that, when it suits you, when it suits you, mothers should not cry when it suits you, by applying a psychological action against the nation. That's how you have to see it for once. With your votes here today, lawmakers, everyone needs to know what to say yes to with these votes. I wonder how the political will behind this bill today wants to shape the state and the nation, where does it want to take them? How does such a political administration propose a solution that you will say yes to this process? To say yes to a process that will lead to where it ends is clearly to take the fate of this nation into darkness. First of all, those who exercise this will here must bring this will to the attention of the heart, of the heart, of the heart, of the heart, of the heart. Why don't they tell me why they're hiding it? One step at a time, we need to see exactly what point Turkey has been brought to. There is absolutely no way that we can look at this bill from its historical context, from its political purposes, from the games played in the Middle East today. So, you have to question the project behind this bill, what's the purpose, what's the purpose. There's no one here who doesn't want terror to end. Damn the terrorists, the ones who killed the babies in the arsons, the ones who wanted to get to their political goals by spilling blood, but wouldn't that legitimize those who used terrorism as a means to achieve their political goals, to legitimize what they did? For him, each MP must consider and consider the national will that he represents here today, the will that makes us who we are, the will that brings us here, the people and the people who founded our republic. Can we express an opinion on such a bill, regardless of the 100 years of reckoning with the Republic of Turkey, the Shark issue, the lovers of Sevr, the Great Middle East Project, and the firming of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? What we've experienced over the past 12 years, the relations with the terrorist organization, the reasons behind it, the fact that the PKK terror organization has been dealt with one step at a time, negotiated, with its weapons, and in an environment where terrorism organizations have been described as a terrorist organization, we can't ignore how Turkey is moving forward within a sneaky plan called the process of betrayal, my dear brothers and sisters. Yes, if we don't see all of this today, you'll believe in the concept of integration, the lie of finishing the plant, the envelope. Yes, terror is over, but let Turkey not end; let terror end; let terror end; let terror end; let it not depart from Diyarbakır's Ankara, Diyarbakır's İzmir; let it not depart from Istanbul; let it not depart. What do we do, what do we say? My dear brothers, Mehmet Akif Ersoy said that we are not asked for our lives, but our heads, our state. Who came today and sought a solution by re-opening what we had rejected yesterday, in accordance with Lord Curzon's wishes, because there is a Kurdish issue in Turkey today? What happened? Did we lose a war? Lawmakers of the Veteran Assembly must consider this. Yes, so far, many games have been played on our national struggle and the values that make up our nation. I just told you, Mehmet Akif Ersoy said with an enemy's finger. Well, there's a Kurdish issue today, saying... there's no problem with the citizens, there's no problem between Kurdish origin and our brothers. They live together all over Asia Minor, but in this way, from the moment you redefine our state and nation and share the state's power according to ethnic identities, everyone will be restless all over Anatolia. Everyone must take an example of what happened in Iraq, what happened in Syria, what is called the solution. My dear brothers, what happened? What happened in Turkey? Yesterday we tore it up; the Great Armenia, the Great Kurdistan, we rejected these projects and threw them away. Our Kurdish brothers telegraphed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and they said: "The fate of the Kurds is passing through the Turkish Union." We do not accept Kurd's representation as a separate element in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (Today, there is no matter of Kurdistan.) What happened together with our people in the east and southeast, and we agree that there is a Kurdistan issue in Turkey? The people in Diyarbakır have sent telegrams saying that they have surrendered themselves to the saviors of the Turkish nation of their own family and to the Government of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If you give this authority, those who give it will be as responsible as those who abuse it. In the presence of history, we must share this together, together. What happened, as Wilson Principles put it, in Anadolu, we need to divide us into a republic, but others into autonomous republics in Anatolia. How can the Turkish Grand National Assembly come to a point where they can accept Wilson's Principles in a modern way, and how can we do that? Today, at this point in 1918, we reveal how the British report, which the United States wrote in 1992, was planned step by step to eliminate national identity, national consciousness and national state in Turkey, from the north of the 36th parallel to national identity debates in Turkey, terrorism, political solutions. Yes, at this point where we are here today, we will fight together with the United States. Now, at this point we're here, doesn't this project, which is called the solution process, make it very clear and clear for whom, for what purpose? My dear brothers, I'm not just saying that. Look, my dear brothers, in their terrorist leader statements, he says: "Big countries use subcontractors, and I've been used as subcontractors." In his statement to Greek television, he says: "I attacked Turks from the inside, why didn't you attack from the outside and you solved the problem with the Aegean Islands?" Marxist, Leninist, we're dealing with a separatist mentality and a mindset used by external forces. What does this mentality have to do with the will of our Kurdish brothers and sisters? Those who want to divide people of Kurdish origin are betraying people of Kurdish origin. In that regard, the PKK terrorist organisation is not a representative of Kurdish people. How sad is it that at this point we are here today that this bill sees the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) as the representative of our Kurdish brothers? This is the painting. In that respect, at this point where we're here today, we know that from the beginning of today, the PKK has been sympathetic to its terrorist organization and its extensions, it has legitimised the PKK separatist movement against the second republic in open and closed language, as it did in eastern reports in the 1990s. It's the continuation of the process as an opening in that regard. Yes, the new Turkey model today added to the idea of changing the regime, transforming the republic. New Turkey is the project of an ultra liberal, separatist, conservative coalition, a project of people who are far from the national values and spiritual values of this nation. If we put aside the details that have been built on different grounds, in essence, the opening is the name of announcing the new Turkey, turning the country into a federative structure, dealing with the official historical republic. If we look at who the political will behind this bill is, it's clear that the claim and practice of solving the issue of terrorism through the opening are being used to destroy the national state, which is focused on eliminating the institutions and institutions of the national state. This is called the process of solutions, and we can see that the purpose of opening is not to solve the issue of terrorism, but to connect the search for a new regime on ethnic and religious differences. What the separatists have established in the past, the search for order, the text containing the construction of a new model, the content of the opening literature, is seen to be intersecting the demands of AKP power and its terrorist organisation and its extensions under the Kurdish issue. It is evident that they are the same mountain's mane, the same road's traveller. The AKP's ideology and the search for order in AKP guides and demands are accompanied by different reasons, but the opening statement is accompanied by the common denominator. The AKP has established a partnership with the AKP's government, which claims to carry conservative thinking with the terrorist organisation and its extensions, which is talking about liquidation and firing their demands with barrels, based on the grounds that the national state model excludes religious and ethnic differences. Now, this mindset is a mindset that gnaws at the conservative values of this nation and transforms it into a voluntary potential. So at the point where we're here today, it's actually a PKK, a separatist, Marxist, Leninist organization that he says is a partner in the solution and peace process together; its ultimate goal in this geography is to create a nation within the state, within the nation, by separating the nation and state, based on ethnic identities in the direction of global forces. The terrorist leader opposes national state and nationalism. The AKP's guides have also shown that they are against the national state, that the national state is the problem. The announcements were made by Ahmet Davutoglu, made by Ömer Çelik. The AKP spokesman's meeting on the same axis, during a talk by the terrorist leader in 2007, also reveals that there is actually a global bossship. The common goal is to build an ethnic and sectarian Turkey instead of a national state. The political Kurdish opening is called the Federation, and the unsaid side is the transition from the Federation to the independent Kurdistan. My dear brothers, look, the explanations of these things are clear. The terrorist leader says that we have not given up independence. We've reached the most practical point. • Who are you kidding? One step at a time. In this process, these are in the historical background of this bill. We're looking at new versions of yesterday's scripts. Yesterday, my dear brothers, those who wrote those letters fought against them by the Turkish Grand National Assembly of 308, when the Turkish nation stood up against its external enemies in Anatolia by the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The government belongs to the Turkish nation. And instead, a new and national state of Turkey was established. What power will it take, this national government? What power can remove the sovereignty of the Turkish nation from this geography? To whom we have surrendered, we have reached the point where we accept the point of giving up our name, our oath, our republic as a solution. That's the painting, precious MPs. That's why you have to do everything in plain sight here. Let this committee tell you what the solution is, what they discussed in Oslo, what they discussed in Imran, what they did in the national state, what they did in the unitary state. Why don't they tell you? Dear lawmakers, why don't they tell us the protocols in Imralı? Why don't they tell you? Because you say no, my dear brothers. But, here's the bill that was brought in through this process, in fact, my dear brothers and sisters, which, sadly, was not brought in by the government representing the national will. The head of the PKK's terrorist organization says that all of the work done during the solution process is illegal. I told you in the first place, you'd all be tried for treason without permission from Parliament. This is our weapon. Dear lawmakers, a terrorist organization is using weapons. There's a bill coming in here in exchange for this gun. Why is he coming? Why is he coming at this time? With what bargain before the presidency? Put your hand on your conscience. This Parliament's Veteran Assembly has vowed to protect the sovereignty of this nation, to protect its independence, even as the artillery bullets were heard in Polat. Well, my dear brothers, they're forcing a terrorist organization... that's what they've always done. If you don't legalize it by October 15th last year, the armed action will begin. They said, "They brought it back to Parliament." They threatened hunger strike, my dear brothers. If you legitimize the terrorist organization, you will allow terrorism to be used by others as a legitimate tool. That doesn't happen in democracy, my dear brothers. You came here with national will, not by the power of the weapon. Those who come with national will cannot surrender their will to the weapon, not to the force of the weapon. Yes, my dear friends, in the time we've come to deal with all of this, we're dealing with a psychological action against our nation. Let the mothers not cry, if they don't, blood will be spilled... lf they don't, the PKK threatens the nation with a terrorist organization weapon and the government threatens our mothers in exchange for dropping the gun. They said the solution process, didn't the mothers in Diyarbakir cry? She cried. What is the solution process? Where are they taking us? The people there, the families, are more aware of where the government is taking them today. What's interesting is that before this bill comes in, the PKK legitimizes its terrorist organization, and before this bill comes in, it's a psychological action through the mothers. Again, we bring jobs to the relatives of the martyrs, to the families of the veterans. There are more in the newspapers. They're fooling people. While the PKK is bringing a bill to find work for its terrorist organisation, they are making martyrs, veterans and relatives participant in it. The same thing started again: they're coming down the mountain, and they're going down. Nothing but deception and deception, dear brothers and sisters. What we ask of you, lawmakers representing the national sovereignty of this nation, the national state, the democracy, the freedom, the elements of your oath bearing the elements of your oath, is that the government, in fact, adopts the illegal relationship with the PKK terrorist organization, in exchange for the process that legitimised PKK's political interests, the government, as lawmakers representing the sovereignty of the Turkish nation, in this regard, should not be equipped with that authority.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0146par0107	Thank you, Mr. Vural. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0147par0111	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to end terrorism 629 rows and strengthen social integration. We're all here to build our common future on the way to New Turkey, and we're building our efforts to contribute to this bill. We all have to contribute together to the solution to this problem, and I thank everyone who contributes already. Because this problem is not just the problem of the EC PARTY, but of the region; it is the problem of Turkey, the problem of the state, 77 million people dealing with it, and everyone has suffered directly or indirectly from it. Dear lawmakers, since 2002, Turkey has now laid its dead soil on it, with steps taken and developments that have not been done or even thought out before. He is determined to march with the determination to fight for peace and brotherhood to rule this land. The state, which embraces its nation through democratic change and normalisation during our rule, has been acted by the nation's sari, which owns its state. In the first place, the study of basic rights and freedoms has been carried out by legal regulations that have earned the appreciation of every part of society. Our government, the National Union and Brotherhood Project, has established social peace and brotherhood that has existed between citizens for a thousand years, paves the way for the distinction between terrorism and democratic demands. Dear friends, in this land, there's been a continuous flow of blood in the last 35 years, which is essentially what we don't understand and what our hearts don't accept. How can these people, who have lived side by side in this land for a thousand years, who have gone down the same path and turned to the same direction, who drink the same water on the same land, who lie in sheep's sheep for the same purpose and begin to shed each other's blood? I'd like to ask which patriot and which nation would be capable of swallowing it. To put out this fire in the furnaces, we must do everything we can to save our nation from this darkness. Yes, we call it a solution, and we're willing to solve it, and we're willing to do whatever it takes to stop the bloodshed. Look, for the last 19 or 20 months -- almost two years -- we don't have martyr funerals in our homes anymore. The young people who lost their lives, their young bodies wrapped in shrouds, don't go into the ground, no violence, no deaths. Dear lawmakers, even the land no longer accepts and rejects these fresh saplings, these young people. The land doesn't want to cry blood anymore. Please let us listen to the voice of our conscience, the voice of weeping mothers, fathers, brothers, and whole nation.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0148par0117	Don't be so dramatic! Tell me the truth!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0149par0118	Özcan, shut up, Ozcan!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0150par0119	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0120	Dear lawmakers, to this end, we intend to adopt and lay down the legal basis of this process as a state policy, which is already under the laws of the institutions.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0152par0121	You have no authority, your authority!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0122	With this bill, the solution process will again have a much stronger legal basis, which will again be a huge step towards normalisation, democratisation. Besides, our safety, our unitary structure has never been compromised, it will not be granted. However, freedoms will not be suspended. Again, this bill has taken into account the demands and expectations of our citizens over the achievements that have been achieved since 2002. It's a bill built on the need for politics to end terrorism and violence. The absolute purpose of the proposed bill is a strong longing for a country of citizens who feel more secure and free. The bill says it's about the end of terrorism and strengthening social integration. In fact, dear friends, the goal is being achieved, the goal is being expressed very clearly. Who would object to that? Dear friends, we carry as much moral and conscientious responsibility as we do historically. With effective coordination, this point at the point where the conflict environment ends these days is a historic opportunity that should not be avoided. In particular, as is the latest situation in our Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions, our citizens have a desire to embrace their country and its nation even more firmly in the peaceful and secure environment of normalisation and recovery. Economic viability is growing in every aspect of life, making it feel like it's developing. Our people have now bought the solution process because it has enjoyed peace.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0153par0126	How much did he buy it for?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0127	To this end, we act in order for the solution process to reach a stronger legal ground and stability. The process provides a dynamic structure. The active participation of state institutions in the process is important in this sense as well as in effective communication, ferrid and mass solidarity and the active participation of NGOs. Dear lawmakers, we're not just starting this process. Since the AK PARTI government has taken many steps towards democratisation, normalisation, and the hug of the nation and the state since it took office in 2002 and took its place as a government. The 12-day AK PARTY government has done its first work in this sense by removing the state of emergency. On November 18, 2002, the government was established, and on November 30, 2002, the state of emergency was lifted. We got the state security courts out of our legal system. We've taken international agreements on fundamental rights to a superior position in our internal legal system. TRT Sesh and private radios and televisions were allowed to broadcast in the local language. Private courses have been opened for learning different languages and dialects. Political propaganda was also used in different languages and dialects, and it was released. Institutes were established in universities. It began to exist in the education system by choice of the local language. The opportunity to study in private schools has come to pass in the native language. With zero tolerance for torture, Turkey is no longer remembered for unsolveds, judicial executions, torture and abuse. In this sense, we have renewed all laws based on respect for man; we have renewed our laws in honor of man, in accordance with human dignity. Many improvements have been made in favour of our citizens, including the people of the other, non-Muslim, Alevi, and other ethnic groups. Ret, denial and assimilation policies have been terminated. Many more democratic steps have been taken since 2002, continuing to take action. And while all this was being done, wasn't it said that we didn't want to have empty ideas with the longing for the old one-type structure? I've been told, I'm afraid. Were we not accused of treason, treason? I'm afraid we've been accused. Dear friends, we can't look and look at it with any more forceful, denial, denial. So, who's been the winner of what's been done here so far?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0154par0132	He became a PKK.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0133	Let me explain who the winner is here. Dear friends, from these steps since 2002, the solution process, along with all these AK PARTI actions, has won a great nation from west to east, north to south, strong Turkey has won, our nation has won.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0155par0135	Ahmet Bey was zero in 2002, he was zero in the day, because of you. What gain?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0136	To this day, the research commission, which has been established under the framework of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, such as the constitutional and legal regulations and the committee of rational peoples, has been brought to the attention of our nation.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0155par0137	The AKP won, the pockets are full.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0138	Everyone, of course, will have different opinions and opinions on the solution, but the only thing that we can all stand on with an alliance is the stopping of this blood, the end of suffering, and the establishment of social integration. In the framework of right and rule of law, we have dealt with this with an advanced democratic mentality and put our heads under the stone, not our hands, not our heads, but our heads, not our heads, with an understanding that cares about the weapon, the conflict, not death, and politics and democracy.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0155par0139	Holy shit! Is your head crushed yet?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0140	Praise be to God, for 19 months we have been bearing the fruit of it; we do not allow the blood of our young ones to flow; we continue our efforts to ensure that normalisation in a whole country is firmly established. Dear lawmakers, the problem we're waiting for is not so easy, of course, a major problem with about a hundred years of history, which also involves different areas of trouble. We're aware of the magnitude of this problem, but it's about dealing with major states, with major leaders. We've lost 40,000 lives in this problem, friends, over 40,000 lives. It's not easy in our language, not in our heart, not in our mind. We're all aware of what the economic, social, and political losses are. Terror, which threatens not only our present but also our tomorrows in earnest, aims at our peace and security inside and out of our territory, is also the basis for paying heavy bills for our future. Yes, dear friends, this country has a goal and a vision that hasn't been thought of yesterday but has been in your mind for 12 years now; we have 2023 and 2071 targets. We cannot make our nation pay this price for our ideals, and we are determined not to let this great nation pay the price. From the very beginning, on August 14, 2001, when we founded the AK PARTY, we fought heavily for the end of the terrorist program and for the solution. We couldn't stand by and watch the tears of the mothers shed this blood. We argued that this problem, which has a social, political, psychological, and economic dimension, should be handled by everyone by acting responsibly and putting their hands at the bottom of the stone. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we must see very clearly that we must not violate the laws of brotherhood in this land. We must not violate this thousand-year-old culture of living together, of our kinship, of this sacred structure, of our standing as one, of our seven jihana as one body, of our unity and unity that can't be broken apart. And we were together in joy and in sorrow, and we wept together, and we laughed together. Just as our past is together, we have to build our common future together. Turkey is much more courageous today, much stronger, much more hopeful, much more determined and willing to work together to build a more habitable Turkey. This land has suffered a lot of persecution, a lot of prohibitions, a lot of pain. Not just ethnicities, but beliefs, values, books, poems, songs were ignored, ignored. Dear friends, whatever we are in the national struggle, whatever spirit and faith we have stood up for, we must build our own brotherhood again today. On April 23, 1920, when the Grand National Assembly of Turkey opens, we must act with the great Turkish ideal. We have only one goal: a great and powerful nation, not outcast, not despised, not persecuted, not denied, and built on these foundations. A country where everyone is one, a first-class citizen. That's the primary value of Turkey's rise and strength of this republic, the strengthening of this brotherhood. Turkey is the basis of mutual trust and brotherhood, where fear and suffering end. With the end of terror in Turkey, our brotherhood, our unity, our economy, do we lose political power inside and out, or do we get riveted and strengthened? If we can look at it from here, we'll be able to find the right path. Every time and every environment, we're also faced with unnecessary and dispossessed accusations, I'm afraid. Those who oppose the solution can even go on the path of deception by creating a republic of fear. Turkey alone and only Turkey will be divided. Its claims are trying to create a perception far from the solution and from the logical point of view. This separator and polarizing approach only harms our nation. That's why we're talking about the last and most important obstacle to the great and powerful Turkey of tomorrow and its prosperous citizens. With the awareness of all the negatives caused by this problem, we would like to see our nation's happiness, peace and prosperity permanently unraveled under the integrity and unitary structure of Turkey. We have one goal: to live as brothers in the shadow of our glorious moon star flag. For him, we expect serious contribution and support from all the political parties, civil society organizations, from everyone in the process, from everyone in the process, from everyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, and we see that with every passing day, this contribution increases. We care about the solution, and with you, we hope that Turkey will not miss this historic opportunity. We're hopeful. We don't want to let this hope go to waste, we don't want to waste this historic opportunity, because those who waste this opportunity will answer for it in the face of history and the nation. And they'll take the blame for it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0156par0149	And so will you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0150	We live in this beautiful land where there is no conflict and disaster in Anatolia, the world's most beautiful geography, where mothers' screams end, children are not land at a young age. Dear brothers, without a doubt, we are all working together for the unity and unity of this country. For this country to be strong, all political parties -- I think -- act that way, we have to act that way. I can't imagine any of us would stand by an incident against our country, against our nation. So, this responsibility, this mission, we all need to contribute in the sense that this process will end in a final way. Dear friends, look, the process has changed. If this had been solved by simple military methods, simple operations, death, killing, and death, all that would have been solved...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0157par0153	You threw it in front of the military Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). That is sufficient for you as a duty of honor.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0154	...we would have solved it in the 1990s. In the 1990s, we lost nearly 4,000 or 5,000 people a year.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0157par0155	The soldier knelt down, and you ate his fruit.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0156	If this had been solved that way, then it would have been solved, but now it's nearly 20 months, two years, if there's no violence, if the deaths don't come, if we don't get the news of the martyr...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0157par0157	Don't you know that the PKK is receiving tribute? That you're blocking the road...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0158	My dear brothers, it makes us all happy, and we all desire it. Even one person's life is above all politics. Let's put politics aside, this isn't something that can be judged by a political, ideological view. It's a nationalism, that's what nationalism is.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0157par0160	Don't talk about nationalism.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0151par0161	Nationalism is about serving people, being one and being together. So, my brothers, the hemlock is now... [[Noises in MHP rows]] Look, there's a government and its leader who's given a firm and strong will to resolve this problem. He has a strong and determined leader who is ready to drink hemlock poison, and we are confident that we will succeed with a nation that says, "Finish the pain." I thank all those who labor in this way, with good intentions, with clean feelings, with love, and I salute the High Council. Once again, I thank our commission, Mr. Prime Minister, for its contributions to this historic process, especially our Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0168	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0159par0169	If only he hadn't contributed!) Don't help us, we didn't contribute.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0160par0170	Let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it, let's hear it. They'll be asking you tomorrow at your constituency, they'll be asking you to pay for these applauses. You'll answer for it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0171	Speaking for the group...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0161par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0173	Here you go, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, please, Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0161par0176	Mr. President, we're having an important discussion of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the TBMM television...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0177	Congressmans, Republican People's Party Deputy Director of the Party has asked for a statement, speaking.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0161par0178	You called the Minister to the stand.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0179	I didn't call anyone, Minister. I didn't call anyone.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0161par0180	Minister, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0181	No, I haven't. I haven't called yet. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0162par0183	Don't get excited. You're betraying this country.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0184	Will you shut up, please?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0163par0185	Now, ten minutes ago, Parliament TV broadcast was cut off, but according to protocol, it is possible to broadcast these talks on Parliament TV if the President demands it. If you agree, I'd like you to make such a request. These talks shouldn't be kept secret from the nation, and I think it's important to know that all of our political parties on this issue -- we haven't hidden them from the nation. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0158par0187	I will, thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has requested a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0164par0191	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing an important law.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0165par0193	It's not the law, it's the proof of betrayal, it's the proof of betrayal; the law is something else.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0164par0194	I'd like to thank the fellow critics who have contributed with their valuable opinions on the law that is being discussed here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0166par0195	It's a surrender form, a surrender document, not a bill.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0164par0196	Really, it's the wealth of our Parliament. I told you that in the Commission, it is now a great achievement in the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey that, with all its detail, with all its clarity, all the problems of our country are spoken without fear, without concern, without taboo, and we are talking about such a thing with clarity today. It is also a pleasure for all of our MPs to speak their minds as clearly as possible. I hope, for our country's sake, for our nation's sake. As you know, we've been working on a law like this for a long time, a framework law that was included in the mental-people report...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0167par0198	Traitors, they're not smart.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0164par0199	And so did our Parliamentary Commission, which was established on this issue, the Commission, and we, on Thursday (June 26th), submitted this bill to parliament as a bill, which was completed on Friday (July 4th) in the Interior Commission. Here's our Deputy Group President, and I've actually got 20 minutes to talk to him so I can be brief, but I'm going to make a brief statement to make sure he's on schedule before he's off, and I'll make a brief statement, and I'll be brief. My dear brother Ahmet Aydın has already expressed important things on behalf of our group. First of all, dear lawmakers, as you know, we've been thinking about this differently since the founding of our party. So each party has a different look, and we've said that we're going to start our party as an AK PARTY, that we're going to take different paths on these issues, that we're going to look for solutions other than the ones that are used to our country's problems. So we've had a paradigm change from beginning to end, and for 12 years, everyone's already seen it. So this isn't new stuff we're bringing in, it's a continuation of our 12 years of work. In fact, as far as possible, we've tried to implement policies that embrace the problems of every part of Turkey, and we've thought that civilizing Turkey, normalizing it, would be as effective as we've opened up civilian politics, and we've actually touched untouchable issues, and that's how we've solved a lot of chronic problems, and that's one of them. Call it the Kurdish problem or call it the terror problem, whatever you can think of, but we're used to this problem, not just by security methods, but by bringing a very different look, we said we'd find solutions by bringing social and human perspectives, and we're patiently working on it. And I especially want to say that the solution process is a continuation of our previous work, and today the solution process is in a period of maturity, which we, the government believe in, and we now believe that we are going towards an end in solving these problems. Our next goal is for members of the organization to lay down their weapons, and the government to do what is necessary for these people to return to their homes and normal life. That's basically the main goal of the solution process. We, frankly -- and I say this sincerely, and I said it in the commission -- we can say anything, we can discuss anything, but I want to say again that this process, this is about parties, that we all have to help out on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to say with great pleasure that in the last two years, both peace of mind and economic life in the region have come to life. The normalization images that our people have longed for for for decades have come to light. For the first time, mothers can raise their voices for the return of their children on the mountain. With terror, it's clear there's no place to reach with violence. All our efforts are to make this peace and normalization a permanent environment, and that means more peace, brotherhood, human rights and democracy. We've already taken a lot of distances in terms of democratization, as to the rights and laws of our citizens living in all our regions. We call them the silent revolution. We worked hard to ensure the trust of all our citizens in that matter. In fact, there were mistakes in the past, and trust in the government was shaken in many areas. Oh, now we've brought this to a more final stage. First of all, this framework is the first law to come to Parliament on the process of resolution, that's the importance, and that's a framework law. It's an abstract law, it doesn't carry concrete. We're just legally naming the solution process, and we're bringing Parliament into action, and there are a lot of missions under this resolution process law, under this umbrella law. He's going to be the government, he's going to appoint institutions, he's going to assign people, and he's going to need new legal preparations, and maybe those laws will come back here. And one important thing that we have here is that we see transparency very important. Hopefully, I'm clear here about the solution process -- as long as both Parliament and our entire nation are informed of the developments, it will facilitate the contribution and increase the support of our nation. When you really tell people what you're doing, people give you more support. From now on, we'll make an effort to get more information. Let me put it this way: what we're working on right now is a concrete road map after this law. The road map is both concrete and timely. We're working on it, and according to this, a plan of action will emerge, and maybe there'll be new laws there. And those studies, again, will be brought before the House. But let me tell you, at this time and at this time, at this blessed time, that both I and the government have high hopes. The process is maturing. Hopefully, for the unity of our country, for its integrity, for all our citizens to live in this beautiful country in peace. That's all we do. We will not be involved in any work that will bring disgrace to our country's unity, to its integrity. On the contrary, the AK PARTY is the cement of this country's unity, its integrity. I always say that. We are in every part of our country, and the integrity of this country is our most important goal. If they don't do this kind of work, there'll be problems. Let's see them that way. I'm going to end with one last thing here. So the tasks here, et cetera, are within the law, these are the duties of the government, they are the powers and the government will do assignments. Here's one thing our friends are referring to: I mean, there's an irresponsibility, especially about 4/B. I'd like to mention that in particular. Dear friends, let me just say, our esteemed MPs, we've both received the opinion of both our friends from the Justice Department and the Justice Commission and the Constitutional Commission presidents while we've been enforcing the law on this matter. It's a text predicted by the lawyers, and they've told us that this is how it's applied in other laws and other countries. And here, never, it's not like I'm encouraging them to commit a crime or anything. That they're not under any threat because they're carrying out their duties. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you've seen examples of these before. The Prime Minister gives instructions to the Undersecretary of the MIT, saying, "Go, make these talks with the members of the organization." After those meetings, a prosecutor calls on him to question the Undersecretary of the MIT, saying, "You have committed a crime." Of course, you can't run bureaucrats this way, and this is valid in every country, and I also specifically state that, see, the 137th Article of our Constitution: The charge that constitutes a crime is not carried out by any means; no one who fulfills it will be able to get out of responsibility. • Also, the 24th Article of the Turkish Penal Code is in the same parallel. These are our top regulations, these are binding. We don't need to put these back in here. Otherwise, no one can give a criminal order, and whoever gets one will never do it. This law alone -- this is part 2 of the law -- is the purpose of making sure that people can't be blamed just because they're doing this task.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0168par0214	There's no need if it's not a crime.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0164par0215	Again, thank you very much for your contribution and will be, and I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0169par0218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, on behalf of himself...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0170par0220	Mr. President, in short, Mr. Secretary said: "Here, sir, the Undersecretary of MIT is going away, the members of the MIT are meeting, then the investigation is being launched, that's why we brought it. Mr. President, hasn't the MIT Act changed in this regard? Dear lawmakers, isn't that why the MIT Act has been changed?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0171par0223	He has set forth for you an example.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0172par0224	Is MIT the only one meeting?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0170par0225	Now we bring the same thing in and use it for this! I mean, a government who doesn't know what it's doing, who knows what it's for?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0173par0226	Thank you, Mr. Vural. First speaker on behalf of Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0230	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to make a statement on my behalf regarding Law 1/941. I salute you all. Dear friends, we are gathered today to discuss an important matter, an important matter, the historical luggage of Turkey, and the situation it has come to today. An important day, an important bill, I hope this bill will lead to a permanent social peace of Turkey's Kurdish issue in Turkey. I'd like to begin my conversation with this wish. Dear friends, Turkey's Kurdish issue is not a matter of the last 30 years, but a matter of the last hundred. But for the last 30 years, he's been through conflict, death, multiple human rights traumas, and today we're talking about a bill that could be the basis for this issue. It's missing, it's wrong, and we have objections to its timing, but we think it's important and valuable that the law, despite everything, is spoken in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Why is it important and valuable? Because in Turkey, for the past 20 months, our citizens have not died, there has been no conflict, and no funeral is going anywhere in Turkey. In this regard, Turkey's point of origin today is important and valuable, and we, above all, have the responsibility to maintain this situation, regardless of the law, to protect this environment where no one dies, where no one has lost their lives. And the place we've been insisting on for the past two years... Will you shut up! Will you shut up!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0175par0234	I'm not telling you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0235	And that's where we've been insisting for two years. But it's also important that after two years, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has reached the point we've described. Dear friends, look, the name of this matter of Turkey is not a matter of terrorism.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0175par0237	Apologize for the trouble you've caused.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0176par0238	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0239	Terror, conflict, armed violence is the result of Turkey's Kurdish issue, which was then established. Our duty is to provide Turkey with an environment that will never happen again at this time. That's why we insisted that this matter is addressed by Parliament, and that problem must be resolved by a large consensus that is possible in parliament. Now, you've come to us with this bill. Yes, this bill is incomplete. This bill doesn't describe anything. This bill has already taken the government's duties into law, and there's nothing else in it. You were faced with a calendar push, and you brought this today. What's the calendar mandate? On one hand, there's a meeting, that's a calendar push, and on the other hand, there's the President's election, that's a calendar push. You brought this. In spite of everything, we said, "We will not oppose this bill, we will say what's missing, we will say what's wrong, but we will make the effort to get it out." We said, "We are in it today." Look, for two years, under the roof of this House, dear friends, put your hand on your conscience, which bill have we brought here, and which one have you rejected? Please check a memory. Look, I'm about to read the whole thing, and it's all been rejected by the AKP Group here. These were the moral steps of the process, but you didn't understand, we couldn't tell you, unfortunately we couldn't, and here you said by heart. What were they, for instance? Diyarbakır Prison. What was it? Neurosis. What was it? Aleppoce. What was it? My lesson is rebels. We brought all this here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0177par0242	You're going to tell the Republican People's Party about them.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0243	What was it? 100% election dam. What was it? Treasure aid. What was it? The democratic formation of political parties. We brought all this with this bill, we asked for an audience, but you said no. But what's going to happen? After this bill, this will come in the way the Minister described it. So why haven't these been done in 20 months? What obstacle was there? The main opposition party brought this here. The fact that Diyarbakır Prison is a museum is an administrative procedure of the Ministry of Culture, but we know that at the beginning of this problem, Diyarbakır Prison is a trauma at the point where it turns into a gunfight. If only you'd said yes to the law we brought in last year, we'd have dealt with the past, the reckoning of the past, the confrontation of the past together. This Parliament would have apologized to all those tortured in Diyarbakır Prison, Mamak Prison, Metris Prison after 12 September. Why did you say no, dear friends? But I'm telling you, the future, Nevruz, yes, may have been a holiday with an executive decision, but what would have happened if we had declared it a holiday by the decree of this great Assembly in 20 months? Shouldn't we have secured this process, my moral step, dear friends? Take a look at the transcripts from November 16, 2013, dear friends. We have an offer on sick prisoners there, and I've spoken to all of you personally. What are you talking about now, where you've been seeing each other? You're talking about this, but on November 16, 2013, we brought a proposal for the law here. Come, friends, look, a process has begun, good or bad. There are steps to this process, people are dying in it, and Metris is dying in it, and Sincan is dying in it, and Diyarbakir is dying in it. We said, "Come, let us secure them, and let us not leave them to the discretion of the government." We've brought an offer of law here, and we've asked for it. But you raised your hand without knowing it, you said no. Isn't that going to come up? He'll be on the agenda. What I'm trying to say, dear friends, is that you don't have a schedule. When you're faced with a calendar imposition, you come across these kinds of laws, precious friends, with a calendar imposition.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0178par0246	It doesn't fit your schedule, but we have a schedule.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0247	Don't do this. Turkey's Kurdish issue is not based on a calendar, it's mindset. That's why we call it what it is. You're gonna name this thing right. That's what happens, with courage. No, why are you afraid, you have so many of you, why don't you name it, start with the name? What fear do you have? There's still a power that hesitates to name it, to name it. Okay, you've got the majority, we don't, you've got the sheep, you've got the opposition, so if you really want to resolve this problem so sincerely, Dear friends, look, the Republican People's Party and social Democrats have been on the side of conflict all over the world.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0178par0249	I wish he were here, social Democrats.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0250	Dear friends, we, look, check your memory, dear friends, look at June 6, 2012, May 2012, 100 people were dying on average, 100 people. The Prime Minister was hanging on by a rope, calling the Kurds Zerdust, calling the Kurds "the traitor" and going around with a rope.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0179par0251	He wasn't talking to the Kurds.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0252	In those conditions, we went to the Prime Minister on June 6th, which is exactly why the resolution would be in the House. Those who told us about the AKP headquarters came to parliament two years later today. We're telling you today, this bill is missing, there's something wrong with this bill, so let's take it further together. Let's work here, try to work, by creating another mechanism that defines this problem, that will work simultaneously in parliament, and spread the social agreement to everyone else. Let's try to convince the non-committers. Look, let's respond from here to those who encourage the street.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0180par0253	You refused to sign it, you couldn't sign it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0254	Yes, 35,000 of our citizens have lost their lives, and 7,000 of them are public servants. 21,000 members of the organization. That's 35,000 on the record. We've got close to 3 million people on the move, thousands of unsolved murders, and we're talking about this massive trauma here. Therefore, we must strive to the core of this problem in harmony with the spirit of this problem.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0181par0255	You couldn't keep your signature!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0174par0256	We, however, demonstrate our will to pass this law, except for the absence of Article 4 of the law, which is wrong. We have the solution, the freedom of peace, the equality, the resolution of the Kurdish issue with democracy, the challenge. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0182par0259	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, MP of Amasya.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0183par0262	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. An important bill, hopefully, will be negotiated here, and it will be a blessing. It's also an age in terms of the solution process. There are those who find the timing compelling, and there are those who consider it a message to the public for the presidential election. In fact, the solution process started a long time ago, and these presidential elections weren't on the agenda -- remember 2009 -- but even if it had a message for the presidential elections, it would have to be reasonable in democratic theory. Isn't the idea to put public-sponsored decisions into the field, get them into practice? So this bill on the solution process means that it will be supported by the public, and I'm just saying that an approach that says that it will be supported is behind that criticism. This is the case: Turkey is facing this Kurdish issue and therefore a social and political crisis. This crisis did not begin with the PKK alone, but it had a history, and after 1984, it went to a different stage. Indeed, the people of this country have paid great prices. When you look at all the lives that have been lost, all the costs that have been paid, in the end, with a broad horizon, you have to see it as the cost of this country. If our problem is to bring together the people in this country, the real people, the people in the east and the people in the west, we can't afford it, regardless of their loss, regardless of their suffering and suffering. We cannot embrace the whole of Turkey by extending our arms from this bench, but we can embrace the people who live in different parts of this country with our words as we speak from this platform. If the people living in Diyarbakır, who live in Haqari, who live in İzmir, İstanbul, find their own stories in the words expressed here, find their own pain, find hope of unity for the future, then we can embrace them with our spiritual arms and our national unity only on this. Dear friends, democracy is a beautiful thing indeed. People come in, they talk about their fears, they talk about their concerns, they talk about their concerns, they talk about their hopes. All of this is data. If someone thinks they're insecure, because of the process, it's data. The ruling mind moves on by calculating them as well. That's why every word said here is precious, important. There's an answer to solving the problem. We will, of course, go on our way, considering what both the DP and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) have said, but taking heed does not mean that we should do exactly what they say. Taking into consideration is an approach about this subject in society that calculates what their sensitivity is and makes it possible. You know the expression Bismark: politics is the art of possible. You can't solve social and political crises by putting everyone on the same line at once, holding ranks. There are periods, there are confusions, there are insecurity, there are problems of twilight, but a strong and brave will, despite all of this, can provide unity and resurrection for this country. Having some problems, having some things to criticize in the process, does not mean that the resolution will not come to an conclusion, that the work cannot be completed. No one solves these kinds of problems like butter. We're talking about real people. We're talking about injured people. We're talking about people whose lines do not speak to them or respond to them. For example, we're like meat and nails. Right, it's one of the many words, but you know what some people understand? He says: "Yes, I'm like a nail, but I'm traumatized, bleeding, and now I'm like a fingernail. " If anyone feels that way, if the word of the flesh and the nail is sinking into that person, you'll understand why it's sinking. And before you know it, before you put that nail back in place, before you stop that bleeding, you're going to remember how useless the quote is and how provocative it is, and you're not going to be able to make the union until you get it done. We, yes, want to build a brotherhood, we want to build a future together in this geography. It's not just about Turkey's peace. You see the geography we live in. There are countless identities in this geography, countless beliefs. Those who read the Deadly Identity of Amin Maalouf (Aman Maalouf) know it. In the mountains of Lebanon, a small village speaks of its family, dating back to the 13th century. ▪ We were Christians. Thanks to the Ottomans, we were able to remain Christian. If we were in Spain, for example, at the same time, that would not be possible. If you remember Isabel and Ferdinand, the practices of that period would not have been possible. I mean, you can't be united by the insistence of a certain identity, especially a certain identity that was built in the 19th century, in each corner, in a geography where identities and beliefs are blended everywhere. You can't be united by the state logic of the 19th century. The national logic of the 19th century -- Claude Levi-Strauss, French anthropologist -- is based on swallowing and vomiting; swallowing is assimilation, and vomiting is an exchange of populations. All nations have tried to swallow and vomit, both to transform the nations that are their target, and to transform others, but they didn't. The 20th century showed nations: What will democracy, human rights, and a nation's state be like? Those who feel differently, what will you, as a citizen of this nation's state, build on that sense of belonging? With both democracy and human rights and self-expression, freedoms and homogenization, these two cannot be united. Then you're going to make peace with the citizen, you're going to make peace with the real people, they're going to be able to be organized, they're going to be able to participate in politics and negotiations, they're going to be able to talk, they're going to be organized, they're going to be able to talk. They won't be what you're describing, and they won't define you. That's what democracy and freedom teach us. We are now trying to build such a Turkey by means of the solution process. I can tell someone's in a state of smell and anxiety. The past is too wounded for everyone. He just mentioned the numbers, Mr. Godkulu. 23,000 PKK members have been killed; 8,300 public servants have lost their lives, have been killed; 5,600 civilians have died. If we continue this way, imagine folding these. Where there's blood, there's no peace. Two roads ahead, no other way. You're either gonna make up or you're gonna fight. Fighting isn't the answer, then you'll make up. A wise person does not fight his own society, he tries to understand his own people, he tries to develop a language that will penetrate him. To do that, you have to build a social and political climate. The mind is limited, but there is no limit to foolishness, there is no limit to madness. Sometimes it's important to preach a hammock, but sometimes it's a Hamasi speech that develops inside isolation and a certain identity prison. The more you associate with people, the more you learn about reciprocal hanzas in other places, the more normal you become. There's a saying: human beings are built with biological relationships, and so is humanity with social relations. You will listen to others, and you will talk to others, and you will act with a mind that takes account of their speech, their problems. Here is the EC PARTY, where it gets votes all over Turkey, it also collects people's minds, ideas, sensitivities on its roof, removes decision and will from this geography's reality, not their own imagination. The solution process is the result, and hopefully it will succeed in the path of peace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0184par0273	Thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0185par0274	Mr. President, the mentality that states that democracy is incompatible with the national state is a misfortune that has not taken the fortune of democracy.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit04spe0184par0275	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. Engin Altay had just received a request. I read to you the following answer: Mr. MPs, according to the protocol between the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Parliamentary Television broadcasts between TRT, there is no way to continue the broadcasts over TRT 3 at 1900 p.m., and there is no way to meet the demands for extensions, but such demands cannot be met but can be followed from Internet and smartphone applications, as well as from 1900 p.m. Hopefully, this limitation at the point of television broadcasts in the near future will be satisfied by the opportunity of TRT. The End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration, drafting the Law and Interior Commission Report (1/941) (S. Number: 629) [[Continue]] Now, on the entire bill, there is a motion given according to Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We've agreed to continue negotiations on the entire bill. Md. I'll give it to you. Yours truly. As a result of the search for alliances in the presidential election process, the President has been brought to the TBMM agenda with the threat of the separatist PKK terrorist organisation and has made the PKK terror organization legitimate, has made the PKK terror organization legal and equal to the government's legal and agreement with the PKK, has a political will with the PKK, I will not be able to change the sovereignty of the government and the institution of the state, which represents the sovereign will of the government's weapon, and I will not be able to violate the constitution of the state's [professssion] organization's [responsibility] with its [profectionary] terrorist organization, and I will not be able to change its sovereignty over its [prohibited] property, over its [prohibition of] and [prohibition of] the [prohibition of] the [properity of] the] state and the [properity of] state] the [properity of] state] the [property of] state and the [properity of] the [properity] [properity] [re] the] the] [re] the] the] the] the [profemity and the] [res] [re] [properity of] the] the] [proper] the] the] [re] the] [re] the] [re] [re] [re] [re] the] the] the] the] the] [properment and the] [properity of] [pro] [properity of] the] [properity and the] [properity of] [properity and the] [proper] [re] [re] [re] [properity and the] [proper] [proper] [re] [re] [proper] [proper] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re]] [ The MPs who have taken the oath have been advised to continue the talks in order to further be informed of the arrangement that would undermine this oath.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0186par0015	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0017	We've got a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0187par0018	What's up? What's wrong with you?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0019	Mr. Vural, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Honey...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0188par0020	Are you having fun? You've got a mirror, you've got tweezers!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0021	I'm processing, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0189par0022	Talk there, Mr. President, over there.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0023	Mr. Illum, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0190par0024	Do we get instructions from them what to do?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0191par0025	They're throwing a belly, sir. Give it up! Does it look like a congressman?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0027	Who's whistling? Please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0190par0028	They don't know what they're doing.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0192par0029	In the barn, in the barn, not in the House! You can't whistle in here!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0030	Mr. Okan, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Oz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Adan, Mr. Lightning, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0193par0031	Mr. President, you said it was whistled. Aren't you going to do the procedure about the congressman whistling?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0032	I couldn't detect it, so I'd do it. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0194par0035	I stood up and whistled, with honor, dignity. Let him say I did it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0036	Congressmans, please, two minutes...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0194par0037	Mr. President, if that whistler has honor, dignity, let him say it's me. Let his honour be raised if he has one. Let him say it's me.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0195par0038	No matter who's dishonest, I stole it. Let him say it, which is dishonest! If it's a boy, let's go! Missing young men!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit05spe0184par0040	There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 113th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. The commission is here. The government is here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0005	Mr. President, sir, the merger cannot be suspended for more than an hour.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0006	I thought it was ten past nine.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0007	It was 9.04, sir. So, what we're going to do from now on -- please take a break -- do something like that. It was 9.04.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0008	I bought it for ten past nine. We were sitting inside, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0009	It was 9.04, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0010	There's really no intention of that.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0011	No, it's not that you're not sitting down. My MPs were here at 9:04; they left without you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0012	Come on, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0013	Perhaps you would have intended not to form the Court.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0014	No, we don't intend to. I, now, will read the names of the MPs who entered the system.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0015	Sir, I'd like to open a discussion about your attitude. I'm inviting you to practice.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0184par0016	All right, let's open it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0196par0017	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0197par0018	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0198par0019	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0199par0020	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0200par0021	Against Mr. Okan, Mr. Vural; in favor of Haydar Akar, Doğan Kubat. Well, now, the first word in favour is Mr. Haydar Akar. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0024	Mr. President, I can't say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to say I'm going to be worthy of the AKP Group's...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0202par0025	There's a congressman here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0026	Okay, let's give the AKP Group a...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0203par0027	We're here, Mr. Haydar. Look, we're here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0028	I'll tell you, I'll tell you, Mr. Ramadan, don't worry, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0204par0029	Congressmans, please do not interfere with the speaker.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0030	One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight... 311, as far as I know, eight of our friends from our 311 lawmakers are here. I see we have more congressmen in the opposition group. What's up with all the procedural debate? He took an hour off, Mr. President, but even though an hour is normally up by four past nine... when the friends of the MHP Group come to the House and see that the House is not open, he says they have to go and leave, too. Yeah, it's just that when there's a group that's coming to vote for Congress, when there's a ruling party MP, that's the result, unfortunately, because by the way, we didn't have a vote. If there really had been a vote, they would have voted either yes or no, either according to the instructions given, or as the group's vice president would have pointed out, because the law that came out for them didn't matter very much. And so, unfortunately, the House's working order is breaking down. The ruling party says we're going to run the House by midnight, but we see that the ruling party MPs are chatting more in the garden, chatting more in the rooms, not in the Parliament.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0205par0033	Look at you, Haydar.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0206par0034	So it's time to go down.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0035	Now, but it's a reality, it's a reality.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0206par0036	Well, with a little respect, iftar clock, people are coming. What a shame!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0037	We have a lot of respect for everything, and a lot more respect for these things than you do. You know why we have more respect than you? As you pointed out, we never use religion for politics.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0206par0038	What's that got to do with anything? The clock is the same for everyone. What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0201par0039	You're using everything you do in the entire area of your life, and you're looking for respect here. You will show respect to the nation, you will follow its time, you will come, you will follow your schedule. If you do not do so, show us respect. You do not have the luxury to say, nor do you have the right to accuse us of it. Mr. President, there's no way to understand the way this House works. Our old congressman friends, our experienced congressman friends. We're new, but we've done three years, we're out of the fourth year. Now we've learned that this Parliamentary General Assembly doesn't have a work schedule or a work schedule, and everyone brings what they want, let's not say, the ruling party brings it to this House, especially in accordance with the instructions it gets, and he makes the laws he wants, again, by looking at the majority. These guys are a raison d'etat, they're a holiday, they've got nothing to worry about. As long as they follow their instructions, they don't want anything else, because if they do, well done, next semester, they have a legislature, and I greet you with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0207par0042	Thank you. The first speaker is Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0046	Mr. President, thank you. I've asked for a procedure discussion to invite you to comply with the rules of the House. You know, the Vice President who runs the House can only take an hour off. In fact, I must also say that I was here before you arrived, but of course today's holy Ramadan, our MPs are opening their honors. Here our MPs, the opposition, have the opportunity to ask a question. I expected you to open what you had to open later in 9.04, but at least I expected you to take a second recess with our MPs, our lawmakers, and our lawmakers, who have the right to question.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0207par0048	I was going to, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0049	It was the right thing to do.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0207par0050	I was going to, but you didn't give me a chance.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0051	But, I mean, no, you didn't. I'm afraid I've never seen such a tendency. Now, I'm going to make you read the questions. You started out like that, but you started out like that, and the heart would want to, so let's just let our deputies, at least the lawmakers who opened their honor, come in here and ask their questions on behalf of the nation while they're doing their duty. Actually, the main reason I'm starting a procedural debate is because lawmakers... the majority party doesn't have to ask questions, they don't ask questions. Opposition parties should have a basis for that. If you had a search for it, we'd be pleased, we didn't. We used the facilities from the Civil Code. In this regard, for a certain time, we did this to wait for lawmakers to arrive, lawmakers who have the right to ask questions, but our real regret is that the MPs of parliament -- usually -- are taking a period of time off. After they say, they must not extend this period without consulting with the groups, because the MPs are no one's officers, they are the deputy of the nation; it is not appropriate to keep the deputy of the nation in an arbitrary manner here. This is a practice that is often applied from time to time. In that respect, our request from the Presidential Court is that he especially observes his break. Velev who, if we meet with the parties, if we are polite to inform our MPs, of course our MPs can wait in this regard, but to wait unannouncedly, can be called disrespect, rudeness, in the presence of our lawmakers. That's the thing about me having a little bit of a discussion. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0209par0054	Thank you, but I have a brief statement to make. Believe it or not, it's your choice, Mr. Vural. I went on the stand, I called the hearing, I was going to read the names here, I was going to take 15 minutes off -- not 10 minutes, but 15 minutes off -- but you didn't give me the chance to say it, you started a formal debate, but that was my real intention. My conscience is clear, and I'm not at liberty to say anything about the rest.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0056	Thank you, if that's what you think, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0209par0057	I'd really like you to believe my sincerity, which is exactly how I was going to do it, but...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0058	And if he'd been informed about it before, there wouldn't have been any need to argue about it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0209par0059	But you, before I complete my promise, without doing my procedure, we've started a procedural debate, and we're living with this result, but I repeat, frankly: I was going to read the names, the MPs don't appear here, so let's take a 15 minute break. That was my intention, but it didn't work out.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0060	Look, Mr. President, you go in after your officers come in to see if there's a commission here or a majority of them. That's how it's always done. Then I say I wish you'd done it earlier, I would have done it, I would have done it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0209par0061	Now, look, I'm not just doing this, Mr. Vural, it's a process, it's done by everyone, but you presented it in such a way that it was as if I was the only one doing it, and that's not true.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0208par0062	No, no, I'm talking to the Speaker's Council.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0209par0063	Anyway, I made my statement, and my conscience is clear in that sense, but let's move on. Mr. Doğan Kabbat, the Istanbul MP in Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0210par0066	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. Vural, the Vice President of the Precious Group, explained the purpose of the debate of the procedure, but since there has been a discussion of the procedure, let's express our views on it. Now, my dear friends, the 1st Amendment of the Civil Code has defined the merger and the session. In this Article 54, the meetings and hours of the General Assembly of the Interior Charter have been made clear. Again, Article 55 has brought an order to open and close the merger. Article 68 is the chief of the General Assembly's decision to suspend its work in an hour at most due to noise and fighting. I mean, other than that, there's no more time off from sitting in the Civil Code than there is now. There's no mandate, there's no restraining order. Which, Mr. President, remembers very well, at some point in the night here, we know that there's been an hour, 20 minutes, 40 minutes, or even a delay in the back, in order to achieve a reconciliation between groups. We've actually just seen Mr. President alone, and I've also asked my president to take a break from him at some point in time when he's free when he's having group talks and I'm myself -- and I'm actually ashamed to say it -- to the opposition club so that our friends don't have any say in the matter, and I've even asked him to take a break. These are very human, natural things, things that are supposed to happen, things that aren't something to brag about. That's not your intention, Mr. President. So, I'm guessing he's taking a break at seven past eight, Mr. President. I mean, it's supposed to open at 7 and it's open at 11 and there's been a 4-minute delay, but it's not an obstacle to the work, either, according to the Civil Code. Therefore, our president's position to continue the work now is quite appropriate because there is no clear ban on it. That's just the way it is. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0211par0070	Thank you. Mr. Sinan Oğan. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0212par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, we're here from time to time working on commission work, and there's nothing wrong with that, but if you're going to bring some good things for the sake of the people, for the benefit of the families of the martyrs, let's work until the morning, but the trouble is, we're always working the laws about the PKK, about the opening, about the hair. I was going to tell you when I arrived. But, Mr. President, we've been here many times, and I've started talking about you, so we remember you saying, "You're late." Which one are we supposed to trust for him, and now we're just supposed to trust what you're saying? Otherwise, I've already made a promise, and you don't have the right to say a word or act like one. We know what you're saying. Dear friends, I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to inform our House of one thing. In the last two years, the Al-Shebab organization against our embassy and our citizens has had armed attacks, rocket attacks and assassinations in Somalia. We've just received word that there's an attack on the presidential palace, an attack on the Somali presidential palace, and there's no news of any of our embassy members, no progress. One is anxious after seeing what happened in Mosul. I've been tracking ISIS accounts, social media accounts. There we see clear messages being delivered to Somalia. Therefore, the situation is not very good in Somalia. Let's hope this time, brother, how do you know? Friends do what they have to do, and the government takes care of our citizen there. Otherwise, as in Mosul, we may still face the situation of our people, citizens and diplomats as hostages. I hope we don't have to go through that this time. Meanwhile, news from Mosul is coming that some of our people have been released and our diplomat has been released. I hope that's true too, but hopefully, Mr. Prime Minister won't use these things in the presidential election process. My respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0080	Thank you. Members of parliament, according to Article 55 of our Civil Code, which regulates the way and the way we work, the president has the authority to open the session and close the session if necessary. You know, the session is the intersecting part of a combination. There is a 68th Amendment decree in our Civil Code that there will be no general ruling on this issue and that if the working order is not established because of noise or fighting, there will be a maximum one-hour recession. With this sentence, there has been an application in other recessions not to exceed an hour of time. Although the period of recesses has expired, it is also known that there are sometimes delay openings for various reasons. I've just made my statement on this. Once again, I say that there is no change in my attitude, and we continue the talks on the agenda.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0083	Mr. President, your statement is not correct because the Article 57 of the Civil Code has the same decree that the seat can be postponed to an hour after the latest. There is also a decree that if there is no roll call, it will be postponed to an hour later. In this regard, there is, in accordance with the Civil Code, an order, not just by practice. There can't be an app on this matter for the pleasure of it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0085	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0086	I mean, it's not just about the fight and the noise...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0087	Mr. Vural, thank you. I said I was willing to do it, but there's been another discussion of procedure, so we're good.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0089	But, sir, you don't have it in the Civil Code. You say there is, I say there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0090	It's not general, but it's for a special occasion, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0091	Sir, there's an hour in general here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0092	That's not a general sentence.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0093	It's common. You can take a break from those goals anyway.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0094	Let's not argue about this now, I'm not making any changes in my attitude.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0095	So it's not general, it's just your mood?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0096	And I don't think it's a violation of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0097	Take a ten-hour break, then. What gives you the right to close the House?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0098	Personally, I have inner peace, inner conscience.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0214par0099	You're not giving the Clave the right information.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0213par0100	We'll continue the negotiations. - The End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration (S. Number: 629)------------ [[Continue]] Now, members of lawmakers, I've read their names, please enter the system. When you entered the system, there was a deletion in the system because there was a roll call later. Ladies and gentlemen of the law whose name I read, please enter the system. Mr. Vural, Mr. Tüçal, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Right, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Bal, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Şeksek, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Bayaktutan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Mr. Uğırmak. I'd like to request that the MPs I've read this name into the system, please. Now, we'll begin the question-answer process. Our time is 20 minutes; we'll split ten minutes into the question section, ten minutes into the Minister's answers. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0215par0108	Thank you. Mr. President, my case is about Iraq. In northern Iraq, the Barzani administration has some statements that it will declare independence. Israel said, "I will recognize the independent Kurdish state." Later, a spokesman for the Justice and Development Party issued a similar statement. Barzani also told the daily Die Welt that the United States and Turkey will not oppose the independent Kurdish state. Has your government pledged Barzani to recognise the independent Kurdish state? How do you look at an independent Kurdish state? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0216par0112	Dear scholar Light... no. Mr. Crescent Tiger... No. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0217par0115	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, no more mothers crying, no more martyr funerals. You said. In the last year and a half, how many of our guards have been treacherously martyred, fighting the separatists for years? Have the perpetrators who killed the rangers been caught and processed? Have they caught the traitor who dropped our flag in Diyarbakir? We've heard a lot of adjectives before, but in the end, these openings only worked for terrorists, only they didn't bleed. Do you have any idea how this opening story is going to end this time? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0218par0118	Mr. Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0219par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. The meeting of this resolution bill in parliament is historic, because for the first time, Parliament has begun to discuss Turkey's most crucial problem. Of course, it's a framework bill, authorizing it. What kind of work is thought of in the shortest period -- after the past -- in this regard? I'd like to ask you about the Constitution, democratization laws, election laws. We also see that for two or three days in Kobani, the ISIS attack has been organised, the attacks on the Kurds there have been increased, and the attack has been launched with groups that have received Turkey's assistance and support. In such a solution, what is the government's expertise, is there such a cry for help, and how does the government feel about these statements? We're wondering what the risk is in solving this.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0220par0122	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0221par0123	Mr. Secretary, in what you've been saying for the past 19 months, you've called the process of dissolution, while security forces have left the area to the terrorist organization, are there soldiers, police, security officers, guards, civil servants who have been kidnapped by terrorist organizations so far? If so, how many of them have ever been saved, delivered to their families? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0220par0125	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0222par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last three months, how many political incidents have occurred in the districts of Haqkari Province, Central and Yüksekova, and how many police and citizens have been injured? How many have been secured, how many have been found guilty? My second question is: How many times in the last two years have the PKK's terrorist organization and state officials met? What agency are the officials of the government who are interviewing? My third question: in what areas of our country in the last six months have there been a number of drugs seized? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0223par0131	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0224par0132	My question, Mr. Secretary, is a clear answer from Mr. Secretary: is the PKK's terrorist organization the director, isn't it, Minister? I want you to answer it clearly. Then, tomorrow, when the people of Kandil are free to walk among us, while the Imran criminal organization and militants are running freely, how do you intend to establish the state authority that has been effectively eliminated in eastern and southeast Turkey? How will the culture of living together, where the PKK and its political wing are determined to eliminate, be provided with this law that will take the dissolution one step further? How will you overcome AKP's crisis of trust among members of the same nation?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0225par0136	Dear Honey...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0226par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intermediary, I'd like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister: Oslo talks and our security forces have left the area and their operations are tied to the permission of governors and governors under political orders. Since the PKK militants in the mountain are not allowed, they have landed in the markets, villages, towns, towns, towns and towns, where they perform four important government tasks, such as taxing the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and raising troops to the mountain under the name of the Taxes of the state of Turkey, and raising troops to the PKK. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's an actual formation in this frame. This formation violates national sovereignty, unitary state structure and national integrity, including the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. With this bill, what do you intend to give to the PKK terror organization that you will negotiate, negotiate, sit at the table as part of Lausanne?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0227par0142	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0228par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I'd really like to get an answer from Mr. Secretary, because we haven't been able to answer any of our questions in the Commission. You know, Mr. Prime Minister was later denied by the mosque imam, but they still entered our mosques in the squares with shoes. He propaganda, but two mosques were burned in Istanbul. As you know, he's been cremated, so far, no word from the Prime Minister. I wonder if Mr. Secretary could shed some light on this for him. Is there a governor in Istanbul when this mosque is burned down? Is the Istanbul Chief of Police on duty, or has he been taken as a parallel? Were all Istanbul's police officers expelled, or are they still serving in Istanbul? I wonder where the government is when the mosques are burned in Istanbul. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0229par0148	Dear Lord Lightning...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0230par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. As we look at the general reason for the law, a paradigm change has been mentioned in the fight against the terrorism issue, and it has been said that this opens the way for the solution perspective. In addition, the terror problem and the legitimate and democratic demands of citizens are separated, and a more sensitive approach to the problems of all communities is adopted. Now, is it an expression of what the paradigm change meant, that this paradigm change stopped fighting terrorism and began negotiations with terrorism itself, with the terrorist leader? And I want an answer to what kind of problems this law solves for the communities. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0231par0155	Mr. Halaçoglu? I don't think so. Mr. Flagtutan? I don't have that either.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0232par0159	I'm here, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0231par0160	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0233par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. During a process in which global forces talk about Iraq, Syria, and the great Kurdish state in Turkey, we will declare our independence as guests of the AKP congress. He said, "We will also recognize our independence." The preparations for establishing a Kurdish state in Syria continue intensively. Abdullah Ocalan İmrallı said, "We have not given up on our claim of independence, we have come to the proper setting." Do you think that with this bill that you've brought into the environment of all these developments, the building of the Kurdish state has been paved with milestones?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0231par0163	Mr. Secretary, you have ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to our friends who ask questions. The first question is Barzani administration's explanation and so on: Turkey has no such word, no such commitment, nothing. Question number two: the flag launcher has been identified, but he hasn't been caught yet, I'm afraid.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0235par0167	In the kandil.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0168	How many rangers have been injured, etcetera?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0236par0169	Leave the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0170	But since I don't have those numbers here about the ranger -- how many rangers or citizens -- I'll give them to you. Mr. Kaplan said, "What work will be done in the short term?" He also said, "Is there any help with ISIS?" Dear friends, as you know, ISIS is a terrorist organization from our point of view, and there is no way that we -- the Republic of Turkey -- have the slightest cooperation, let me first express it. What kind of work will be done in the short term? It's a framework law, as I've just expressed. In this framework, our government will give the institutions a mandate, and now we have a road map that we're running, so we're working on a road map, an action plan. We're working on a more scheduled, more timed, more concrete action plan. That's all I can say right now, but maybe there's some new law proposals in this frame, we could have bills in the House. As those studies develop, they will be presented to the House. Sure, there's a lot of work to be done here. So, as you know, these are the problems with deep roots. As a result, we do our best to resolve these problems. Hopefully, we'll be pleased if our country gets rid of these problems. So you have to work patiently, carefully. The question of Mr. Bulut is that for the past nine months, security forces have left the area to the terrorist organization. We're very cautious about that. I'm the head of the Anti-Terror High Council. Our board is gathering regularly, and we're interested in the organization's mistakes, where, again, there may be developments that have disturbed our citizens, which may have happened. Our instructions to our security forces are this, and this is what I'm saying here: these are police matters, and you will intervene wherever there are such problems. None of this has anything to do with the solution process. If there is an incident in Istanbul, you will intervene elsewhere, just as you are struggling. There should be no minor concern about it. There's no doubt about it. Of course, the question of Mr. Right is in that frame. In the last two months, Hakkari and Yüksekova, you know, especially the movement in the region, we're aware of that, too, dear friends. Some things are happening there that we don't want, but we see that it's important: we're doing the solution process, and when that happens, it's the most violent intervention. Our next road map will be our idea, of course, of course, of a more time-consuming action plan that connects everyone. There may be other developments in these matters from now on. So we've been keeping a very close eye on the disturbances in the area. In the last two months, the talks with the organization... are called. So rather than interviewing the organisation, you know, our Undersecretary of MIT and the MIT team are meeting with Imralı. That's how the process works. We, the political delegations, are meeting with the BDP, the HDP delegations, and this is how the traffic continues, my friends. So that's how it's going to work from now on. They're already transparently public knowledge. Another question, a state authority, a crisis of trust, and so on. There's no crisis of trust, there's no government authority that's been eliminated. Everybody knows about the '90s, you know, what life was like in those areas, how it was planned to go from place to place, and so on. In Turkey, right now, dear friends, we live a life where everyone can go freely in every corner of our country.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0237par0178	Mr. Secretary, I asked if the PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0179	You can go to any village you want, no problem at all. We don't accept government authority here or anything like that.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0237par0180	Is the PKK a terrorist organization or not?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0181	Is the PKK a terrorist organization? PKK is a terrorist organization. This is a terrorist organization known to us and many countries in Europe as terrorist organizations. The oslo talks separated the security forces. As such, Mr. Balίn, the same question again. Security forces haven't left anywhere, our security forces are in position as we are. Yes, it depends on the governor's permission and the governor's. So our, you know, during my Ministry of Internal Affairs last semester, Mr. Honey, we've eliminated the Embassy Protocol. The Embassy Protocol directly authorized the soldiers to do so. Right now there's a civil authority, so if there's something going on, it's an intervention by the governor's or the governor's or the governor's permission, and you're right, but there's no such thing as not letting me do anything about this matter.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0238par0183	There's a PKK outpost 250 meters from the police station.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0184	I mean, things like this: we know our country, Mr. Honey. I mean, you know, don't put taxes there and stuff. We're following it well. I mean, if anyone's making a mistake there, it's them, but we're already trying to solve these problems, so we're going to end them. And we also know that, look -- the time is almost there -- the East-Southeast Anatolian region is at its most peaceful for the people there and for those who go elsewhere, friends.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0239par0186	Is anyone going anywhere else, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0187	And it's really both economic life and people's violence. It's in rebellion, and we all see that it's actually becoming more viable. So people are very hopeful about this process of solutions, and we're trying to figure out how to get ahead of them, so let's not have any of the things that you're counting in that area. With Allah's permission, it even upsets us that we're talking about our uniter structure, friends, the solution process, the unit structure, and so on. And I've expressed it in my speech, so these are our common sensibilities.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0240par0189	With the Embassy Protocol, Mr. Secretary, the governor and the trustees were cleared. Let me know about that, too.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0190	I don't have this information about mosques, so I'll give it to you when I get the information. So what problems have been solved here, Mr. Lightning? When I say, of course, dear friends, we know that there have been problems with certain parts of our society and the state in the past, wrong practices have been made in the name of the state, and our citizen's trust in the state has been diminished. So what we're doing is we're doing democratization steps again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it again. So there'll be no problems between the state and the citizen. When you solve these things, you're doing a lot of things on the ground of terror. There's no other question, Mr. Yilmaz, but I mean global powers, etcetera, anyone can make any comment. I tried to answer it as best I could. Thank you very much, so if it's missing, I'll finish it again in the next question-answer. Thanks, guys.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0241par0195	Mr. Secretary, is there an Emmy protocol now?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0196	No.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0241par0197	I do.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0198	We've got him up.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0241par0199	Sir, you did it again.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0200	No, we didn't.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0241par0201	It's not happening now, it's not happening. You, please, ask the Home Secretary whether there's a Minister or not.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0234par0203	I'll ask him.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0242par0204	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. There's a motion for an open vote on the transfer of the bill to the articles, so I'll read the motion and call the signees. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit a clear vote on the transfer of the 629 Numbered Legislature. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Lütfü Türkkan, Bigeli? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Sinan Okan, Iğdir? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Mustafa Erdem, Ankara? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Koray Aydın, Tripoli? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Oktay Ozturk, Erzurum? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Engin Alan, Istanbul? Here. Sumerian Oral, Manisa? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Edip Semih Yalçın, Gaziantep? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the adoption of the Articles of the Law Bill 629: ▪ Number of votes used: 215 [[x]] It is agreed that the bill be passed on to its articles. The End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration MADDE 1- (1) The aim of this Law is to regulate the procedures and foundations of the solution process for the end of terrorism and strengthening social integration. Mr. Oğuz Oyan of İzmir will speak on the behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0243par0255	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the bill brought before the House today, are injured by legal injury. We see this coming a month before the election, and this is a rather lack of intimacy as a political maneuver to draft legal basis for negotiations that have been going on for six, seven years and will continue, and to support the Kurdish political movement ahead of the presidential election. In Article 1 of Article 1, the purpose of questioning terrorism and strengthening social integration is not something that we, the CHP, can oppose. However, such a vague, abstract, and closed description cannot be made. This definition conceals more than it explains; it is against the law. So far, our main objections have been against the method, not the solution. As far as the way the negotiations have been held, kidnapped from parliament and the Council of Ministers and carried out, the issues of dealing in these talks are among our objections, such as the existence of a foreign representative in a foreign country initially. A form of negotiation that a quartet, including the Prime Minister, has taken the initiative of a quartet on what was given and what was given, is unacceptable. Now, when the bill is trying to fill in these gaps, it creates new problems by being thrown against the law. As CHP, we have proposals within the framework of the five basic initial principles of the solution; we think that if a process is launched within the framework of these proposals, it can have the right results. What are these basic principles? For one thing, the idea of bringing democratic solutions to a region or an ethnic community without democracy in the country is raw imagination; it is impossible to produce permanent results; the resistance of travel has shown it once again. If democracy is wanted in the country, steps can be taken immediately. You're going to start by removing the election dam, you're going to abolish all the special authorities' terror courts with all the consequences and the new derivatives, you're going to secure the meeting and demonstration rights, you're going to go over the unsolved murders, you're going to judge those responsible for massacres like Uludere, you're going to retrial them, you're going to respect the state of law, you're going to respect media freedom, you're going to end the unjust imprisonments, and you're going to end up the violence of police and the judiciary, you're going to judge them with false evidence, you're going to judge politicians, you're going to retributing them with false allegations, and you're going to get a fair trial. The second fundamental issue is: The Ver solution is that a covert negotiation of the type of dictatorship is inevitable to be perceived, branded, and unacceptable in the majority of society as non-democratic, political immoral, unprincipled, insincere, and inadmissible; the resistance of travel has also cried out. Democracy, brotherhood, social integration can't be achieved with understandings that lead to theocratic fascism, only by being trapped in its own agenda. False Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Spying, Oda TV cases can't be sought out in a ACK case without informing them. In these cases and so on, the country's democratic public opinion cannot be gained by entering into positive empathy with AKP actions. The democratic demands in the country are not a condition that at least half of this community can agree to prioritize the Gezi, the December 17th corruption operation and the likes of them with statements that there are operations to undermine the process of resolving the solution, or to not wear down the ruling party. Third, let me say the third basic principle: The solution process is not conducted behind closed doors by hiding from society and from elected representatives of society. This Parliament carried out the Salvation War, such exclusion from the process is unacceptable. We believe that the narrow clinic of the ruling party gives irresponsibility to ministers, ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister and public executives -- whose bill is free of one-sided political responsibility -- according to the Constitution, which once again belongs to only the President -- has no right to govern this process. If a solution is going to take place, the address is the Grand National Assembly. There's a law proposal for the creation of a social agreement commission in this matter by a valued member of parliament. Why don't you put this together? If you're really sincere and you want to come out behind closed doors... but clearly you don't want to. Fourth: Turkey must solve and solve ethnic, regional problems within its borders. Looking for a solution outside the border means losing control, adventure, new Ottomanism. Therefore, imperialism is meant to be part of the great Middle East plans, and the possible outcome is regional war. The overwhelming majority of society rejects all these possibilities. But the ruling party, in a series of delusions, has developed a countermeasure of provocations across the border, has developed open or covert businesses with jihadist terrorist organizations, and has been willing to overstate its own power to shape the region in its own way. Even in today's chaotic environment, there are no indications that he has completely given up on that thought. Fifth: Kurdish problem cannot be reduced to identity issue only. There can be no permanent search for solutions that do not include a programme that is focused on regional economic, social problems, especially on the region's question of backwardness. Lack of unemployment and investment, opportunity in education, gender disparity in the region -- the fact that corruption, poverty in the region, Syrian migrations have been driven to work under minimum wage, has been participantally involved in public administration -- other areas, but the public administration of this region -- in other ways -- with exclusionary appointments or upgrades, shows that lack of agricultural support has become much more difficult in the region, the lack of access to the village environment remains unresolved. This power -- let's not forget -- is a government that didn't spend a dime on GAP investments in its first five years, and after 2007, all the pennies it spent were from the unemployment fund. I mean, he doesn't even put funds in the budget for that. In this region, therefore, the development of agriculture and animalism, the further transfer of industrial and infrastructure investments to the region must be made. See, there is an East and Southeast Anatolia Economic Development and Strategic Goals study prepared by CHP in April 2011. According to this study, the region's economic potentials are sought to be stimulated, and the annual growth rate of the region will be increased to 9.5 per cent by 2023, so that the difference between regions is radically reduced. Let me give you a number, so that today, the regional income per person can buy 56 percent of the average in Turkey only in this region. So only 56 per cent of the national income per person has people's income in this area. According to our regional development programme, this rate can rise to 75 per cent in 2023. Does the AKP's government have concrete programmes and measures in these matters? No, we know. We'd have seen it. Do we not once again see the fact that the ruling mentality, the CHP, is far away from these principles and the package of democratisation? An important part of the proposals for democratisation means that this totalitarian structure will eliminate the conditions for direct existence and political development, and therefore we see that it cannot be expected to choose the path of democracy, not to bring democracy to the country or the region. So we don't think that a solution to democratisation with such a mentality will have lasting consequences. Thank you for your concern.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0244par0266	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan will speak. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0245par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 1st Amendment to the End of Terror and Enhancing Social Integration. I salute you all. Dear friends, I just asked the Minister a question. I said, two of our windows were burned in Istanbul. The Deputy Prime Minister says I don't know. I mean, it's amazing. In Istanbul, they entered the mosque in shoes. You did a month of politics with lies. Let's go in shoes. Two mosques are being burned in Istanbul. I don't know anything about it. He says, "I don't know anything."
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0246par0274	Maybe not.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0245par0275	So you don't read the paper either? For God's sake, you've got an undersecretary on your right, you've got someone on your left, Mr. Home Secretary here. So one phone call... the governor of Istanbul tweets all night long. So in Istanbul... this burning mosque is friends in Istanbul. The mosque is being burned in Istanbul, and you say I don't know. Let me repeat the tweet that Mr. President tweeted here: You are truly amazed! Dear friends, now, at the commission talks, we sincerely expressed our concerns there. We sincerely expected that these concerns would be resolved. We've waited for the ministers and the members of the committee to respond to our concerns and say anything that might satisfy our concerns, but they haven't answered our questions or expressed anything to satisfy our concerns. It is clear from here that the concern of a party, such as the National Movement Party, and the concern of society, which reflects the concern of society, and the concern of the people representing it, is of no value to you. If so, you have brought this law to make up for PKK. I'm sorry, we'll do whatever we can to make sure that this law you have brought to make the PKK's heart is not to be broken here. Yesterday, watching the evening news, today the news said that this law would come, almost all of it. He was followed by another news report, which said that the Prime Minister was told that he would honor the families of the martyrs and that a number of arrangements would be carried out immediately, facing the families of the martyrs. Have a heart, for God's sake. The government has to do it anyway. You think everything's a bribe? Why do you give martyr families the rights the state should give them in a sense of bribery? If you had brought this a month ago, if you had brought it two months later, would you have brought it here today with this law being discussed? So you have no respect for the families of martyrs? Don't you have a conscience? What in God's name are you putting those people in? Dear friends, those people have already died. You didn't take those people to the fort at all. I asked during the commission talks: why are there no representatives of the families of martyrs here? You've called a bunch of clubs, so be it, so be it. But first-degree supporters are the martyr families, our veterans. You didn't pay any attention to any of them. Star Nurse came in this morning. In front of his wife, his children, and his father, the PKK had taken him off the bus and slaughtered him. You, the PKK, are now establishing a legal status in Parliament. You've been holding that PKK for a long time. These talks are being held, and you can't find a cure for the suffering of Sister Star. The conscience of the star nurse is still bleeding. Like him, there are thousands of families of martyrs in Turkey. We saw once again that you don't care about any of this. Dear friends, you've brought four packages before. In the previous four packages, can a servant of God come out of here and tell us? In the first package, the PKK has landed as many as this, the second package has been delivered so many guns, the third package has reduced to this much terror, and the fourth package has reduced its routes to this much. Can you say that? You can't, because every package you've taken out has made the PKK even worse. Every new package of solutions you've brought in, I'm expressing in a nail -- it's increased the climbs to the mountain. While we were doing these interviews here today, I looked at the news, 21 other college students went to the mountains. This solution process has become more powerful within your vanity than ever before, the PKK has increased accession to the PKK, and you can be sure that it will increase pressure on our citizens in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolia region, with the law that you call an unpredictable, head and endless framework law. Now you've found that blood hasn't been shed in months. It's true that you say that our fallen, executed rangers have no value for you, if you don't count our rangers. It's true that our people who were abducted have no value to you, and why did the blood flow in Çanakkale? Why did we give 250,000 martyrs in Çanakkale? If the British ships were told to come and go, would they shed blood in Çanakkale, as you do today? If your soldier is jaywalking in front of the police and the PKK is everything it wants, the PKK is not responding when the flag is down, unless the police are reacting when the PKK kidnaps people, of course there is no bloodshed. Why should blood flow if you give what the enemy wants? But then you can't be the government. The first condition of being a state is to protect its citizen, to protect its ranger from execution, but you have surrendered the ranger, you, the people of the region, our Kurdish citizens there to the PKK. You also have the authority to issue a decree in accordance with this law, and so far you have passed the law above the Constitution, but you will authorise it to the Council of Ministers for the first time in this period. Dear friends, I have made it clear from here, that I have warned you in the Commission meetings as well as in the talks: you cannot free people from committing crimes by breaking this law, you cannot protect Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) with this law. The mighty generals of September 12th were unable to protect themselves by their laws. We warn you: whether it's the President or the Minister, the minister, the bureaucrat, the soldier, the police, ordinary citizens, or the people you're going to use in this process, no one will be free to commit a crime with this law, and everyone, everyone, is mistaken if they think that they will be free to commit crimes with this armor, based on this armor. On the day that the National Movement Party comes to power -- make sure that -- anyone who commits the crimes of this law, commits what the Constitution considers to be a crime -- will be brought to justice, and we will place his word on the stand of the High Assembly. Therefore, no one has the freedom to commit a crime, especially the PKK, to commit a crime in any way. Dear friends, before each election, the Justice and Development Party prepared a Ramadan package, making some packages. It appears that a Ramadan package was prepared for the PKK this time prior to the presidential election. This law you have brought is a bribe to the PKK prior to the presidential election. Be assured that the bribe you have given to the PKK will be of no value to the citizen. There were sit-down shields while the MIT Act was being discussed here. What were they saying? They said no one can wear this armor. What happened to those guys? Why don't they just sit down and get up? Because this law also brings armor to the PKK. So when the Undersecretary of MIT is encased in armor with the law, you will speak out, and when this comes to the PKK member, you will not speak out. And with this, we saw it as a turnusol paper, as we saw it during the commission work. We've seen this law being drafted by whom, instructed by whom, and brought to Parliament. There's a lot of people from different parties in every law, but now it's Parliament. It's just the nationalist movement, and our nation sees it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0247par0289	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Sebahat Tuncel will speak, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0248par0293	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on Article 1 of the Law Bill 629. I bid you all good night. We're discussing a really important law. It's a law that we're going to call a turning point in Turkey's political history. Not everything, of course, but we think it's very important that this law is being held on this council board. However, the issue is not this law, but many laws have been passed in this Parliament, many packets of democratization have been removed... and he's said that many of the democratization packages have failed at another point, but the main reason is because of the mindset of preparation. Now, just now, Mr. Minister, when asked about a definition of PKK, it is a PKK terrorist organization. Now, if you don't change that mentality, if you insist on the concept of terrorism or the fight against terrorism, if you look at it from the perspective of terrorism, there is no permanent solution. It's about changing the mindset. What you call a terrorist is what people call a freedom movement. He says he's fighting for his own language, identity, culture. So at this point, we need a change of mind. It's an important point to be talking about all this on this stand. I've been a congressman for the second term. There is war in this country. We have caused many discussions, even because we called them. Each time, we were turned on this bench and called terrorists. We've been through this. If we can still talk, if we've reached this point, of course, that's an important point, but we need a change of mind here. If you correctly describe the PKK here, you will be correct about its solution. Now, this isn't just about the Kurds. Dear MPs, you look at the Turkish front, we're talking from here to Turkey. Now, what you call terrorists, we're fighting terror. When you talk to the organization you call them, you give the people of Turkey the right to ask a question, why do you see them? So we're going to make that definition right. This is not a terror problem. So far, a state has to ignore its citizens, its language, its identity, its culture, its oppression, its violence... if there's going to be talk of terrorism, then we need to talk about state terrorism. Thousands of people lost their lives, tens of thousands of people lost their lives here, we're talking tens of thousands of unsolved murders. Women are the biggest victims of this war. During the 90s, thousands of women were subjected to abuse, rape. Now that we're going to have a discussion, let's consider all this together. Now we want to solve this problem. We've come to a good point. In the 21st century, people don't solve their problems by fighting, by fighting, by killing more people; that's what has to happen by negotiating, by dialogue. In that respect, we think it's important that this law is being discussed today. Therefore, we care about the talks with Mr. Abdullah Ocalan in Imralı, we care about the people of Turkey. Now there's talk of Star Nurse. Even if you don't want Star nurses to happen again, even if you want people not to die again, the Kurdish mother and Turkish mother should not cry, and the mother of other peoples shouldn't cry, what we need to do here is not criticize how this law will come out better, not how it will come out better. Right, the AKP's government is not brave enough to pass this law; in fact, it does not solve the problem, it is a framework law. If you ask us, no problem is actually solved with this law, it's vague, it's unpredictable, it's just the word of power, it's going to be done after this. And yet we care because we say, "There will be no war, no death, no human death." Now, valued MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the Assembly of Turkey, and you are responsible for 76 million. Today in Kurdistan and Turkey, it is important that there is no war, no conflict, let alone Turkey, peace in the Middle East. The MP has just described the massacres of ISIS here; they cut off people's heads and rape women. Now, is this thing acceptable? If we say peace in the Middle East, peace in the world, peace in Turkey, and peace in our own geography, we have to look at it from this perspective. So we're going to change our language, change our mentality. This problem is not a problem of terrorism, it is a problem of rights and freedom. If 76 million are to live together, but not in one identity, but in one language, one nation, one belief, not in one thought, but in our multi-identified multicultural structure. It's always said that our differences are our wealth. But so far in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the wealth of all differences has been taken; Armenians, Assyrians, Kurds, Turks. But if we are to preserve our wealth with our differences, if we can live on the basis of equal law in our language, identity, culture, color, this geography, then it's promising. So, let's not seize each other's riches, let's not get carried away, but share each other's riches together. This geography is enough for everyone, Mesopotamia, Asia Minor, Thrace, as long as we know how to live as brothers, precious MPs. Now, of course, there's a beginning with this framework law, but it's important after that. For example, there is no part of this law about setting up a commission for truth, justice and research, which is defined in Article 2 of this law. Now, one of the things that needs to be done is to get to that truth. What was the truth? Because the West has misunderstood what we've been through, it hasn't been explained, the state has told us. We also have a responsibility to expose all the dimensions of what happened in the war, to identify it, to face the truth, to face the truth. Now, no justice, no peace, my dear friends. If today's account is not asked for by Sivas, Maraş, Çorum, Roboski, because they are all the same product of the same mentality, all created in Turkey as a product of a single structure, a nation of statesmen, an understanding that ignores differences. Now, the other thing, for example, is, when we talk about the Kurdish problem here, what about the democratization of some MPs, Aman Turkey? You're talking about the resistance of travel, yes, look at the demands of Gezi. During the travel resistance, we were at the Travel Park, we were with the people, we were with the women. The request of the trip was peace, justice, equality, and freedom. Now, these demands were also made when the letter of Mr. Ocalan was read in Diyarbakır Square in 2013: equality, justice, freedom and peace. In fact, everyone's demand is the same, and everyone in this country wants peace, justice, equality, and freedom. So the solution to the Kurdish problem is not just for the Kurds, but for all Turkey, it's essential to evaluate it from here. Dear MPs, in that respect, when we talk about this law, we say this is just the beginning, it should be. We need to consolidate this with some really strong steps. Now, Mr. Minister, just now, Mr. Secretary, our outposts haven't been particularly reduced in the military area, they've increased. Now, isn't that a contradiction? Shouldn't it be reduced to peacetime? Why are you building the goalkeepers, why are you building the security dams? If we're going to make peace, if we're going to make peace together, why would we say we're building new security dams, building new goalkeepers, getting new rangers? For example, this ranger system needs to be abolished. The fact that people made rangers -- not involved in human crime -- are employed in other areas... People involved in crimes of humanity must be identified and judged by research commissions, but others can be employed elsewhere. Now this must be annulled, and construction of the fortresses in the region, especially Kurdistan, must be stopped immediately. Now, unless that happens, people don't believe you when there's such a contradiction between what you say and what you do. You're saying, on the one hand, we're going to declare social peace, and on the one hand, you're saying that we're fighting terrorism, and on the one hand, we're going to make peace, and on the other hand, you're going to increase military purchases, you're going to increase security stuff. Therefore, such a two-way policy does not exist. Dear lawmakers, we really don't have a choice, and we don't have any other solutions. Now, if we're going to solve all of this together here, let's clearly conduct these arguments. It's not the issue of the ruling party; it's not just the issue of the main opposition, it's not just the issue, it's more than the parties. War kills everyone, dear friends. War means death, torture means persecution, racism. Now, then peace is the opposite, peace is more than parties. It's not acceptable for power to make it a matter of self-interest. So, if we're going to build peace, then let's offer our contribution to what peace will be, not how it won't be. There are a lot of lawmakers on this stand, that's how bad they are, that's all... Well, let's do this together how the best thing is going to be. I mean, not by watching, but by being in it, you have to develop it. Hopefully, from now on, the immediate work will be done, the removal of the Anti-Terror Law, and the road cleaning of this process. Because it's a law in terms of the beginning of negotiations, it's not a finished process, it's the beginning of phase two. After that, a lot of laws have to be passed, and that's the only way we can build a democratic republic, or else everyone here will be responsible for all of this, and I wish you all good night again.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0249par0313	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Zeynep Karahan will speak well.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0316	Mr. President, it is today, in fact, a day when you're supposed to be told at the end, and as we all know, we're not just discussing a law here today, it's actually a historic session, and we're negotiating a radical progress that has been bleeding and bleeding for over a hundred years, which has led to the very difficult and all kinds of losses for many of us, which are now and ultimately focused on solving. Of course, the effort to come to this point does not belong to just today. As we all know, after the establishment of the 1st AK PARTI government, twelve days later, on November 30th of 2002, as of 1987, it began with the end of the 46-time extension of the State of Emergency in this country, causing many problems, following the process and the process of radical democratisation. By capturing the wave of change in the world, Turkey has made a progress that literally fits the definition of the silent revolution with great patience and determination. The individual's focus has continued with equal citizenship-based policies that have resolved the disconnection between the state and society, and has not succumbed to national avengers, paranoias that have been blown to the ears in order to achieve political gain. For years, some people have told us, "Don't call it a Kurdish problem, don't even try to solve it. Please, what happens if we try to solve it? Oh, that would be awful. Please, please? We'll split up, of course.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0251par0317	Who told you to explain so we can curse him?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0318	His owners know himself very well, and he knows 76 million in this country. And even though this division propaganda has cost this country years, even though it has caused great suffering and deaths to continue...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0252par0320	Did someone hold your hand? Why haven't you solved it in 12 years?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0321	For years and years, it was owned for political accounts and imposed on our nation a division syndrome.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0253par0322	You've been making compromises for 12 years. What have you figured out?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0323	But in this land, he's never won any declarations, and let them know he's not going to win. Here we are today discussing a legal arrangement in our Parliament -- as the ancients call it -- a mosque, a myth -- which is completely insurmountable, and that allows for new openings, in view of the principle of law, constitutional regulations. This is the correct answer to the legal sanctions. In Turkey, all communities demand peace, and with steps since 2002, the National Union and Brotherhood Project, which began in 2009, as well as the solution process from 2012, we have been able to see our nation's support through a social agreement pushing all constraints against its hand, and the blood flowed for two years as a result of steps to support it. I mean, there is an expression of Benjamin Franklin, which is that we say: "There is no good war, there is no evil peace." And as the country is not divided by this social climate, so much hope and faith is now filled with hope and faith that even though their hearts have been burning for years for the sons of the organization that they've brought to the mountain, even though they can't make a voice, this peace of peace has been the basis for the heart of mothers, and the position of mothers without ideology, without politics, and the position of motherhood that is so strong that even if they want to be able to do the opposite, it will take away any obstacle. Not those who exploit martyr funerals, but those who live together and try to exist together in these lands. Of course, we have not forgotten the pain of martyr families, martyr mothers, relatives, children, nor will we ever forget it. Those who sent their son to the army at the age of 20 and then embraced his coffin, a great pain in this country, and the days when the children who came with this country's truth but white Toros were never to return to their homes, the burning of villages, the killings, the tortures, the Diyarbakır Prison, and all the facts of this country -- all the facts of this country -- were made to stand in line in front of the forces of Cyprus during the Peace Operation of Cyprus yesterday -- and what had been done to the people who wanted to go voluntarily and fight in Cyprus? Aren't we going to ask that question? Aren't we going to put our heads between our hands for once and think about it? What did we do wrong, and why did we not ask?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0254par0324	And who killed those murdered children, innocent children, beautiful people?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0255par0325	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0326	For many years, the Kurdish issue has been made the instrument of custody and power of attorney.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0255par0327	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0256par0328	Who did the massacres in the squares? Will you not then be able to see?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0329	Governments were established, governments were disbanded, but the problem was that even though those who were part of this problem were here, the main sentence that sums it all up was rejection, denial, assimilation policies. An imperial heir state was created by the regime, a people who wanted to become a classless, non-privileged, homogeneous nation, a nation that threatened its own citizens.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0257par0330	The Jön Turks thought the same way you did.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0331	However, we will not be lost in yesterday and the sufferings of the past.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0257par0332	The Jön Turks thought the same as you, the Ottomans lost the Balkans.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0333	As Mevlana said yesterday is yesterday's day, my dear, now we must say new things.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0257par0334	Read how we lost the Ottomans.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0335	But those who insist on not saying new things...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0257par0336	Go read again how we lost the Balkans and read it again.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0337	...who may want to hang out in the past, salute them, but to create social needs, to produce real responses...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0258par0338	Look, the ones who killed these innocent children.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0339	...and we'll all continue to move forward by producing real responses.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0258par0340	Look, look...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0341	That's what's in politics, that's what we call responsible politics.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0259par0342	Your father's bones are aching.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0258par0343	Look, look, these are the ones who killed those innocent kids.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0344	It's not polymics over pictures, it's really politics.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0260par0345	If your father were alive, he would excommunicate you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0258par0346	These innocent children, look.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0347	And everyone must hear that there will be no division in this land, but brotherhood in this land. In this land, no one will separate the descendants of Kılıçarslan from the descendants of Salahaddin Ayyubî. And this matter must now be discussed before the party competition is sacrificed. The problem is not the problem of the EC PARTY, nor the current government, nor our Prime Minister; the problem that is happening is actually a matter of all of us. And I believe to the end that we are now on a new threshold, just as history's alliance with the Turks and Kurds has made us global.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0261par0350	That never happened.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0262par0351	It's ingratitude.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0352	Either we solve this problem or we continue our historical and geographical claims...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0261par0353	That never happened, read history again, history.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0354	...or we'll continue to pay new prices.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0263par0355	Let Master Yusuf teach a lesson.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0356	So we can all see who wants what. In fact, the attitude here is perhaps the truest, most authentic turnusol paper in the political institution.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0263par0357	They brought democracy to Iraq, look!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0358	And maybe it's just this insufferable turn-up sheet.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0263par0359	Iraq was becoming a integrity, and they brought solutions to Iraq!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0360	And the AK PARTY government considers this to be a test of our nation itself. In the Erzurum Congress, at the opening of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, at the opening of the 1920 Parliament, at a time when the borders of the Middle East were redefined, and when the Turkish border had been redefined, not to butter the bread of those who wanted to make Turkey unstable.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0264par0361	You do it yourself, you do it yourself.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0362	... I'm saying that we're all in debt to everyone who's ever been in this House. Twelve years of power has shown that our practice has nothing to fear but our fears.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0265par0364	That's what Farid the groom was talking about.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0250par0365	In order to end all burning events, all angles, in its most obvious terms, there is such intimacy and vision behind the efforts of our political existence, as a fearless government, behind our honest, courageous policies. Although historically not part of the solution but also those who are part of the problem and who are enemies of hope resist to understand it, Turkey is in a major social restoration and will complete its own social restoration, free from all the shackles that bind it, and continue with a rapid economic development and development move. With Ezcüm, as well as being the cement of our country's unity and resurrection, the greatest proof of the paradigm change in the new state's mind is that we will solve our problems through negotiating politics, saying that peace is not just a word in the mouth, but a compass of every historical era, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0266par0369	Thank you. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are over. Now, we're going to go to the speech section on behalf of the individuals. First speaker, Mr Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0267par0374	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 1st amendment of the law, which has been issued to legitimize the PKK, to excuse the PKK, to divide the Republic of Turkey, to betray the relic taken from the country, and I salute you all. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] First of all, I'd like to point out that in northern Iraq, Barzani declares that he has established an independent state, the AKP's spokesman is coming out of here, and I think like him. The Turks can say that honorable people are being subjected to genocide, the PKK's supporter, Israel, America, Russia, the Kurds' abs' father, claims that this state can be sanctioned, and we're getting up here and we're getting up and running a PKK law. Plus, it's being passed as a product of the zeal to fulfill that promise as soon as Mr. Prime Minister has a reputation for being President, because he failed to fulfill his promise to them. Members of parliament, let it come to pass, if it is able, that our flag has been taken down from the military union, the so-called Turkish Republic of Turkey state, where the Bingöl-Diyarbakir road has been permanently closed, where the mayor of the province of lice has been subjected to riot provocations, and the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has claimed to remove soldiers and military vehicles from Mardin Castle. Let him enter, and let him come out on a day when the people who have taken the title of mayor, which you have challenged him with the law. Gentlemen, do you really believe in these things, or do you fulfill the commitments made to others by sharing a role? You're the ISTI...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0268par0380	ISIS...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0267par0381	You tell the truth. ...that he tried to establish a virtual state in Iraq, but he legitimized Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and established a state in Barzani, when the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) was in possession of a Turkish nation without firing a single shot. I'm a member of this state, I'm a member of this nation, I'm in charge of the trust of the profession, I have Turkish blood in my veins. I don't think a congressman who says, "I'm a member of this state." If you say, "I can bear it, I can accept it." If you say, "Who are you, who are you here to represent, who are you here to do it, who are you from, and who are you here to do it for." Gentlemen, do you want the PKK to rise up and transfer local resources to local governments in the southeast, that the MPs in this parliament have been referred to as rights demands for them as well, and by this law, you want to carry out their demands? When we look at the talks we've had so far, I'm telling you honestly, the BDP doesn't need to talk, you're already doing more than enough for them to do, dividing, dividing and presenting on a tray. But I'd like to point out one more thing...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0269par0384	That's how the CHP talks, you're the only one left.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0270par0385	But we still can't please him.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0267par0386	You can't please it, because there will be more demands after this vulgarity. I'd also like to point out, gentlemen, that today, you hand over to a Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) who knows who you are, what you are in the southeast, where you are, who you have been instructed to be, who are the subcontractors, who are not all a homogeneous Kurdish region, who are Arab, Turk, but who are all Muslims. That's enough plague for you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0271par0390	Thank you. The second speaker on behalf of Mr. Faruk Ilk, Müsk MP.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0394	Thank you, thank you. Give me a round of applause!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0273par0395	You're welcome. The square is yours, I'm waiting to hear what you have to say, I wonder!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0397	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration on behalf of myself.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0273par0398	Hopefully, I'll finally applaud you!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0274par0399	Mr. Speaker, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0400	Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, one of the lessons and most important lessons that we're going to learn from history is that those who can't edit their own futures can't avoid being victims of other fictions. So I'm saying that in the spirit of not being a victim of these fictions, we have to resuscitate all the resources that we have today without saying, "Oh, my God, my God," without saying, "Oh, my God," to build a better tomorrow. When we look at it today, unfortunately, we've used up half a century of our time, almost a century, to consume each other in a blind cycle. Maybe someone saw that this country could only be a paradise to itself, but they didn't think that a geography that you could see as a paradise could be hell for another.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0275par0402	Heaven and hell don't mix!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0403	And since you don't think about it, what you see to someone else is never heaven for you. So, let's make this country a real paradise country, for all of us, no matter what religion, language, race, whatever, we have hundreds of reasons to make this country a paradise for all of us, and we have all the resources. Dear lawmakers, we've been dealing with our internal affairs for a century now, and we've ignored our real issues. We had our scars, and we had our problems. We ignored these wounds, tried to cover the wound, tried to put cream on it to bind the skin, but then one day the shell exploded, the blood flowed, and we started to feel the wound deeper. And when the blood flowed, our soldiers, our police, our teachers, our rangers, our doctors, our countrymen were martyrs. We've lost tens of thousands of citizens. Nearly 3,000 villages were evacuated, about 3 million of our people were exposed to migration. There's been nearly 10,000 unsolveds in this country. We've faced millions of pounds of financial losses. After all, this country has suffered, we have seen, this nation has seen, but it can't go on like this. I was in charge of the estate in those years. Because of the country's bad governance that day, it was literally on the verge of a division due to its illegal governance. And someone came along and said, "This country must not be divided." He said, "This country must not be divided, and this nation is a brother." It shouldn't be divided. He said, "But it also needs to be justice." He said there should be peace, brotherhood, and trust. The country should not be divided, but at the same time it should be law, it should be equality. With these slogans, yes, this country should remain single, but no layer of society, no masses, no ethnic structure, no religious group should be deprived of law, justice, he said. For the people, the law applies to all, and you can't deprive people of the law. So the OHALs, the perpetrators, came to an end. Assimilation, denial and rejection policies have been terminated. The roadblocks are over. The bans on Kurds and Kurdish culture have been lifted. But one day came, and the villages that were empty were inhabited again, and the mezzanines were set in place. The villages began to rejoice. People started going out on foot. Agriculture and livestock have begun to flourish. His desire to live together grew stronger, and he began to walk decisively toward the future. With the solution process, the climate has begun to improve in a positive way.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0276par0407	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0408	Travels were held in the unexplored mountains, picnics were held in the no-go zones.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0276par0409	Dear Light, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0272par0411	Businessmen wanted to come into the area and develop new projects, but it bothers you. Because you're uncomfortable with the country's unity, its integrity, taking certain steps towards the future. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0276par0414	Thank you, Mr. Light. There is a motion on the matter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that the negotiations on Article 1 of the bill be continued according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. With all due respect... In its timing, the presidential election process was brought to the TBMM agenda with the threat of the separatist PKK terror organization as a result of the search for alliance, and the PKK's terrorist organisation legitimising the PKK terror organisation to be legal and equal to the government's agreement, making it legal and equal to the government's agreement with PKK and a political will, which constitutes direct negotiations with the government, the government representing the sovereign will of the nation, the government, the PKK's terrorist organisation representing the weapon, the PKK's terrorist organisation, and the PKK's terrorist organisation's political organisation's legal and the right to ratification of its political interests, I shall remain under oath on the basis of the constitution and on the basis of the country's law, and on the basis of the basis of the province of its non-profitrification of the constitution and on the basis of the state's non-profit, I shall not be able to violate the constitution and the law of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution and the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution and the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution and the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the state and the constitution and the constitution of the constitution, underpriment of the constitution and the constitution and the constitution, underpriment of the constitution and the constitution, underpriment of the constitution of the constitution and the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the constitution of the Constitution, and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitution, under-the Constitution, underpriot.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0277par0425	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0276par0426	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a request for a sufficient number of meetings. Mr. Vural, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Topçu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yençeri, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Adan, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Torlak. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. The End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration, drafting the Law and Interior Commission Report (1/941) (S. Number: 629) [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since it's roll call again, the names of the members of parliament who entered the system have been erased. I'm going to read it again, and I'm going to ask these friends to enter the system: Mr. Çınar, Mr. Right, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, Mr. Ali Öz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Eyidoğan. Congressmans, we will now begin the QA section. Our QA will last ten minutes. We'll take five minutes of that time to ask the question, five minutes of that time to answer the question. There are friends in the system, according to the list I read. Yeah, here we go. Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0278par0439	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: How many families have applied to you and to the Ministry of Interior and asked if my child has been kidnapped by the PKK? How many of them were released from the hands of a terrorist organization and handed over to families? How many children do you think the PKK has? My second question is, how many PKK militants have left their weapons and gone abroad in the process of resolving them? How many people have been arrested and brought to justice in the last year of smuggling in the east and southeast?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0279par0442	Thank you. Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0280par0444	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as part of the so-called Kurdish expansion project and solution process, which you yourself started as co-ordinator on August 1, 2009, how many members of the PKK terrorist organization have so far surrendered to your government, your own government, your own person, or justice? If not, do you believe that after these arrangements, the terrorist organization will drop weapons, or do you continue to deceive the Turkish nation? My second question: How many public officials have ever met with PKK terrorist organization executives and committed crimes against the law under your government's orders? How many people are you planning to save with this bill? Last question: When did you plan to bring forgiveness to the PKK, are you planning to bring a bill about it soon?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0281par0448	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0282par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: After this bill is adopted, the PKK members will receive amnesty, and they will be given different rights in social life by the state associated with these pardoned terrorists, what are these rights? Another question is, how much damage has been done to the public by members of the PKK's terrorist organization during 2014, and how much of public property has been destroyed? And what procedures have been made so far regarding the people who blocked the Bingöl-Diyarbakir landway, who are being taken into custody?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0283par0453	Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0284par0454	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the 2nd article (b) of this bill states that if necessary, people from abroad and abroad will be assigned to talks and contacts, if necessary. Who are these institutions, who are they, and who are they? Are there terrorists among them in Kandil, and are there Ocalan in Imran? In addition, we want political delegations based only on the MIT staff, but because the PKK considers it inadequate. Will the ministers and other political delegations go and meet with Ocalan because he says so? Are their demands and their demands wanted to be fulfilled? Who will be the negotiators and who will be the ones to see? I simply want an answer to that.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0285par0457	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0286par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's very clear that when the party is formed, the same ideas are carried out, the opening is state policy in 2009, and it's still going on in 2014. So you've been a programme enforcer for 12 years. Militan is a man with a gun in his hand for his claims, willing to die and kill. What do these militants today earn and what do they gain in the boiler, which is the principle of your government in negotiations, that they give up some of the things they're willing to die for? Or have they achieved some gains, so that they give up their claims, or are they made to be true? In exchange for what, they drop the gun, they want to drop it, or what do you intend to do with it? What do you give them, how do you convince them? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0287par0462	Mr. Secretary, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0288par0464	We had a say.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0287par0465	Time's up.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0288par0466	How is it filling up, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0287par0467	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0288par0468	That's a hell of a time!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0287par0469	Mr. Secretary, please. Initiating five minutes of your time.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0289par0471	Thank you. It's about Mr. Right's questions, of course, the digits, I can't give them to you right now. Do you believe Mr. Light will leave a gun about his question? To be honest, we haven't quite figured it out this time, but I think they're talking about some of the questions. So you believe he'll drop a gun? Dear friends, here are the questions, who just asked the last question, who they're going to see, who they're going to see, and so on and so forth. These are, of course, a road map and an action plan to work on after the law. After this law, we're going to study these things, and if we knew the answers to all these questions you're already asking, we wouldn't need that law. Now, if this framework is observed, and the 2nd article is read, it's almost all there. The government will give missions, the government will give them, and those institutions, those people, will perform those tasks.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0290par0476	You're lying!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0291par0477	Congressmans, please, this is Mr. Secretary, responding.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0289par0478	Of course, there's no plan of action, no road map, nothing in front of us right now, so we're working on it. That's the way it's supposed to be. So it's a lie-right that everyone believes in their own business. We don't lie, we risk a lot, but we don't lie. In fact, I don't want to hurt anyone on this blessed day. A lie is something we would never do, so let my Lord protect us from any falsehood. We, who speak very clearly, clearly do what you do, take the risks, show courage, and do this. As a person, as a government, as a party. Guys, we brought these in, and we're talking here, and everybody's talking about the most inopportune idea. There's often talk of division. It's amazing how easy it is to talk about the division of a country as if it's so eager to be divided.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0292par0479	Is it a crime to warn, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0293par0480	Didn't you refuse to see him?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0289par0481	I mean, it's like someone's only thinking about the integrity of this nation or something. That's the sad stuff.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0293par0482	It's honor and dishonor. Didn't you say? I thought you said you wouldn't lie.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0289par0483	Most of the questions here are usually in that sense. So let me just make it general. But Mr. Oğan has mispronounced a statement about the questions just now, and I am correcting it: I said the information on the mosques in Istanbul, so I need to give you a solid and specific information when I'm giving you information about something. A congressman wants information, we want information, we want it from the relevant location, we get details, we get details, we don't want to give false information. It's an incentive. I mean, he went overboard here and said, "I don't know anything about it." Things like that, we don't need to say to each other, guys, I want to express it. And the second one, of course, is related to the families of martyrs. They understand us very well and they support us very much and say: "There should be no martyrs for other families. Believe me, there is a lot of support in the community, people, families, east and west, all over the country. We also have very good polls -- a peaceful Turkey, where there is no more violence, which is the goal of the solution process and the solution process, which has given hope for a brotherhood-wide longing for Turkey. Hopefully, with your support, with the support of the House, we're trying to make them happen. Thank you again. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0294par0487	Thank you. There are two motions on matter, and I'm going to read them: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the title of the current law bill 629 rows be changed in the following manner, as follows, regarding the Security of Social Peace and Negotiations. Secret by Dareyya Leader İdris Bauken Altan Tan Ertugrü Furçı Faysal Sarı Yıldız Nazmi Gür The purpose of this Law is to determine the legal framework of the talks on the basis of equal citizenship of the Kurdish issue, on the removal of obstacles in the face of social peace towards the permanent facility of civil peace and reconciliation, and in this context to ensure that the parties reach an agreement on the solution and the construction of social peace." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/941 We propose and propose that Article 1 of the First Amendment be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Özcan Yeniçeri Scholar Light Born Belen Engin Field Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0295par0510	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0294par0511	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0296par0512	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0294par0513	On the motion...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0297par0514	Mr. Yeniçeri will speak.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0294par0515	Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0298par0518	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are being talked about here for hours. These conversations are sometimes made with emotional abuse, sometimes with concept abuse, and sometimes with a romantic attitude. It's important to make it very clear that there were people who brought in laws like this before you, and there were people who brought them in hundreds of years ago. They get what they get, you get what you get. That's what the Order of Tanzimat was like, that's what the Declaration of Islam was like, and that's what the Andrashi Lahiya was like. In fact, even further and later, like you, we brought this bill, and we're going to do a great brotherhood, a great analysis. There were some who came forward with the claim. For example, those who had signed Sevr had signed it, and those who had signed it had signed it. In fact, they believed in it so perfectly that when Minister signed it, Feylesof Reza Tevfik, who signed Sevr, he even gave it to the Sultan of Galatasaray. Keep this, we've signed a very blessed agreement. This is where you come from, and what you do is exactly like this work, and you can't read it, you can't read it, you can't read it, you can't read it. It's always wrong, your face bumps against the wall, turns around, hits you again, turns around and slams your face again. Clearly, this bill is not a blueprint for the stopping of events in the southeast or blood in the southeast. This bill is a bill of imposition. This bill is the product of the firmment of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). I'm going to express it clearly and aloud from here. High-ranking members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the PKK had given the Republic of Turkey until 1 July 2014 and challenged it. They had stated that if they failed to meet their conditions by July 2014, they would resume armed actions where they remained. Now, this is a bill that's been set up in response to that. As PKK chiefs explained why the road was cut off in lice, it was because of the opposition that the AKP government had to go to Imralı, to come to Amed, to plead with the leader Apoh, and to our people. So there is a linear relationship between your actions and PKK's threats and attitudes. The PKK is acting to force AKP to plead with Ocalan (Ecalan), and to respond to its demands. In order to eliminate this action, you go to Ocalan, and then you say, "Let's create a legal infrastructure in the way that Ocalan put it, and you bring the bill to the front of the nation." And then you try to produce results in the name of it through a series of rituals, such as peace, brotherhood, etc. Turkey's integrity is sacrificed to Erdoğan's ambition to become President. It is a bill aimed at decriminalizing AKP's illegal and constitutional crimes as crimes. This bill is actually a confession of defeat. The AKP has drawn the state and the law to the terrorist organisation's line because it cannot draw the PKK to the line of law and state, which is the meaning and explanation of the bill. Dear lawmakers, once we determine where AKP's opening process with the terrorist leader in Imralı has brought Turkey, we will be able to see where AKP's new process will lead Turkey. The following phases were envisioned in the process when the AKP started and the pool media called it the "merdiven strategy" The process of non-combation would begin at the first stage. By changing the form of the conflict and taking advantage of this opportunity, the PKK has gone to serious organisation in cities and in civilian areas. The opening has merged, integrated, and made it even more effective in the cities instead of solving the organization. As a second phase, the expansion project envisioned that PKK terrorists would go out of bounds by burying their weapons in caves or taking them with them. Aside from burying weapons, the PKK has refused to go outside the border by creating various excuses. The third phase of the AKP's expansion project envisioned the release of weapons by the terrorist organisation and legal, structural, changes by the government's members of the terrorist organization to adapt to civilian and political life. The terrorist organisation has not met any conditions, but has continued to organise and continue to threaten AKP power. The process would begin with terrorists going out of bounds, and on the contrary, the terrorists landed in the center of cities, not off the border. The terrorists were going to drop guns, they didn't, and the result is obvious.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0299par0526	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0298par0527	Now, in the first period of all of these developments, when the lesson you're taking is sitting in the middle, what is the point of bringing this to the Clave to learn a new lesson, and I'm calling on your consciences, and it would be much more useful if you answered it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0299par0528	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0298par0529	And you won't be able to get the PKK to give up weapons.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0299par0530	Mr. Yeniçeri, thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0298par0531	That organization doesn't leave guns, it doesn't make sense to leave guns.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0300par0532	Neither do you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0298par0533	Every bill you take out of this place for nothing, you're making a living with it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0301par0535	Mr. Yeniçeri, your time is up. Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0302par0539	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0301par0540	I want enough numbers for the meeting. Mr. Vural, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Right, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Adan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the title of the current law bill 629 rows be changed in the following manner, as follows, regarding the Security of Social Peace and Negotiations. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends The purpose of this Law is to determine the legal framework of the talks on the basis of equal citizenship of the Kurdish issue, on the removal of obstacles in the face of social peace towards the permanent facility of civil peace and reconciliation, and in this context to ensure that the parties reach an agreement on the solution and the construction of social peace." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0303par0554	We can't agree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0301par0555	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0304par0556	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0301par0557	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0305par0560	Yes, dear friends, take a good look at this picture, all of you, and then I'll tell you what happened. I can give it closer, but if an officer comes, we can show it to every four groups. Now, yes, there are 15 MPs here. Of these 15 MPs, there are 10 AK PARTI, two CHP MPs, two MPHPs. You can show it like this. This is a picture taken on top of Mt. Cudi, friends, April 9, 2010. I invite friends who want to -- I tell them to all four parties -- anyone who wants to -- I invite friends into the area whenever they want to, we can go. We can even pass through Habur. We are prepared to put you in the fateful union of Turkmen and Kurds in Kerkuk, in Tuzhurmatou, where there are Turkmen who guard the Hengermerge brigades, in the Kurdistan Parliament, where there are eight Turkishmen in the Erbil Parliament, and in every sector. Friends, our proposal is not a simple change of name, because we say that since we are making the law of social peace and negotiations, Parliament is taking a historical step, of course, it should not be called the end of terrorism because we're talking about a huge Kurdish problem from Ottoman to republic for a hundred and fifty years -- democracy, the problem of human rights, the problem of identity, the problem of culture, the problem of language, the problem of sociology, the problem of management, the question of representation, the problem of being a legal and free citizen -- the issue of peace, the issue of development, the issue of human rights, the issue of equality, and the issue of freedom, and the issue of equality and the issue of freedom. Yeah, well, you know, I've opened up a few of these headlines. Although the law calls it politics, social, economic, cultural, etc., I would like to address you with Professor Edward Said's words: ▪ The name of any political action as terrorism means that there is no recognition of a narrative status where politics, history, tradition and interpretation meet. That's what happened to Palestine, that's what happened to the Kurdish issue; one of them's guerrilla, the other's terrorist, he says. We're not talking about the last 30 years, guys. In the last 30 years, the greatest terrorists have been the couptic terrorists who have struck down and shut down this House, who have shut down parties in this House, who have put leaders in this House on a chain breaker. It's those who defecate their own village, called terrorists, who burn 4,000 villages with their children, who shoot behind their backs and commit 17,500 unsolved murders, we can increase them, my friends. I want to tell you that the United Nations has 130 definitions of terrorists so far, and Turkey has a definition of terror that has changed 30 times. Turks, languages, books, songs, halays, people, writers, books, none of them are terrorists, but in this country's martial law, DGM, and private authority courts, they've all been convicted, convicted, entered. For him, this concept is not a true concept. In front of history, we ask for the acceptance of our motion to make you regret it tomorrow, friends, all of you. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0306par0567	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0307par0568	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit06spe0306par0569	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0306par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends on the 1st Article of the Law Bill 629 was not enough in the vote. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is enough of a decision, the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. The commission is here. The government is here. We will now vote on Article 1, but there is a motion for an open vote on Article 1. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Mr. Halaçoglu, I think you gave it to me, but do you want to give it ten minutes?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0308par0009	What are we waiting for, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0309par0010	We don't have to wait, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0306par0011	Congressmans, please... We propose and propose that the first amendment of Law Bill 629 be voted in open voting. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0310par0031	I can handle it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0306par0032	Faruk Bal took over. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0311par0038	I can handle it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0306par0039	Mr. Ugly took over. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes for an electronic vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 1 of the Law Bill 629: Number of votes used: 217 [[x]] Thus the first article was accepted. Now, we'll begin the negotiations of Article 2. Application, monitoring and coordination MADDE 2- (1) The government conducts the necessary work on the following issues as part of the solution process. A) Sets the steps to end terrorism and strengthen social integration in the areas of political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological, culture, human rights, security and disarmament, and related issues. B) In the event necessary, people abroad and abroad decide to make contact with institutions and organisations, dialogues, talks, and so forth, and the person who will carry out these activities will appoint institutions or institutions. C) The return home of gun-laden members and take the necessary measures to ensure their participation in social life and harmony. ) This allows the public to be informed on the right time and time of the measures taken under the Law. D) Follows the application results on the measures taken, and co-ordinates between relevant institutions and organisations. e) The required legislation does its work. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the 2nd article will be addressed by Manisa MP Hasan Ören. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0312par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2nd amendment of the bill. I bid you all good evening. The AKP, which is so capable of discussing such important plans, says its power is from the public in all things, unfortunately, it is unable to review the protocol that the TRT is doing and open parliament to the public. You can afford it everywhere, but when it comes to being watched by voters who elected us by the will of the people, what's so important is that you don't allow citizens, political parties, to watch what they think. I think that's kind of intentional. If you have this much power, if you have so much power from the people, is it really difficult for the TRT 3 (TRT) to broadcast during the hours when this Assembly is working? Look, half the Parliament is watching the German game. Why? Because of the matter, you have bypassed the House; you have suspended the office of the House. Only your headman, only your king, says the same thing only the Prime Minister says. You never see if the opposition has an idea, if they're looking for a compromise on these issues, what they're saying. HDP says there are no clear statements; they are not satisfied with the six-point bill. MHP isn't happy, it's not happy. The Republican People's Party says it is contrary to the Constitution, that the 4th article will not be given such powers to individuals, institutions, and the Council of Ministers. Only satisfaction is in the AKP Group over six articles prepared by the Prime Minister and advisors. As Republican People's Party, from the end of 2012, we traveled in the southeast for months with fellow MPs. In this Parliament, you have always said: "Do you have solutions to the Kurdish problem, the southeast problem? " We wanted to tell you, and you prevent us from preaching to the public. So we went to the southeast, and we started to talk about it, and we went out in the southeast, and we got into a fight, and we went out arm in arm with 60 NGOs. Aren't we missing something? Of course there was. We had 17 articles of proposals for the solution process. You know how you always complain that the Republican People's Party is always critical, always critical, what's the solution? Here's the solution. Let's take these off together, and when we say are you ready to take them off, you don't want to share. Love will not grow without sharing, nor will you be able to solve the Southeast problem, the Kurdish problem. The guns have been silent for 19 months, no martyrs, no lives lost, all the parties thank you. But if we bring these matters to Parliament, why does it bother you to seek solutions in this Parliament? Look, what we've brought out here two years ago is our call to all those who want peace, democracy and peace in this land... we call it. There's a subpoena for special authority courts that we pulled out of this together, and we wrote it, and we got it together, so it's great. Let's get a retrial, we did it together, we voted. We told the people to return to Parliament, and we did it together. All right, let's get the rest of the 14 items. So, if you want to solve the Kurdish problem, you can't solve it with the latest results without doing democratic infrastructure. While I was traveling in the southeast, I gave an example of it with my fellow deputies, using a rope. I'm hiding this rope if you believe it. You can't solve the Kurdish problem until you start here and solve these knots, before you get to the bottom of it, but you're trying to solve these knots from below. This knot can't be untied from here, we're going to solve it from above. How do we solve it? So, we're going to take down the 10% threshold, we're going to find the results of the unsolved murders, we're going to open up the roads to freedom, we're going to open up the way to worship the mosques. So when we get here, if we're going to talk about education in the native language, if we're going to talk about something about autonomy, we're going to talk about it, but if you just try to solve it from here before you solve it, you're going to solve this problem. You can't do this alone. Look at the distance you've traveled for 12 years. Is there any progress? When we went to Southeast... last week we were in Diyarbakır with Sezgin Bey, with our president. We've talked about it, we've talked about it. The people there are saying that the People's Party of the Republic should be involved. But we're telling you, the AKP doesn't feel that need. I do it alone, I do it politically. He says he understands. Look, you brought three packages before the three elections. There was a referendum in 2010, a package arrived. Another package arrived before March 30th. No one knows, there's another package coming before the presidential election. My dear friends, if we're going to do this, if Turkey really has issues with the Kurdish problem, which there is, this Parliament will solve it. Metin Bey, in 2002, 2003, when the AKP was formed, you had urgent action plans -- three months, six months, nine months, one year, two years old. So, do you have a plan for the Kurdish problem, does Parliament know about this plan? Don't we have to talk about what month, what year, what point we're going to reach at the end of this year, in this Parliament, where the will of the people is at its disposal? So, in order to establish the perception of our people living in Turkey, we're not going to allow them to empathize with the family who died in the West, with the family who died in Roboski, with the mother who died in Günyöz, with whom we're not going to do this together? But there's only one thing you're doing: we're going to do it, and we're going to make political profit of it. Parliament must take initiative, all negotiations must be transparent. If you had declared your talks today in Oslo, your secret agreements in Oslo, if you had said these things -- don't worry -- no one in this community would have spoken to a parliament about the peace process, looking for solutions to the southeast. It finally came out, the tapes came out, what did the presidents in charge say? They went at you with fire? Mr. President-General said: "Yes, there may be talks among them, but it is necessary for Parliament and the public to know about these secret talks." Dear friends, if you want to solve the problem, you have to look for a solution together. But you guys don't know. We're waiting for the bag law, 106-point bag law, 150 articles. Parliament's going on vacation, while everyone's waiting for the time when the House's going on vacation, when we're going to work on the presidential election, you've passed a bag of laws, and we're going to see 160 articles. Well, we're prepared for that, we know, so these six points came up? Where did we talk, where did we meet? We lawmakers, if we had known about this a month ago, 15 days ago, 20 days ago, maybe we'd have contributed, we'd have discussed 6 articles in a different dimension, but you're doing it again. I mean, there's a thousand-to-one error in a piece of material that comes out of a tornado, which is a further version of the torque, you guys don't make any mistakes. You all repeat what they say up there, until you leave the party. If you've left the party, your mouths open and you get your freedom. The friends you haven't said in three years are now saying the same thing, the ones you're going to break up with. My dear friends, you have no chance to succeed in bypassing Parliament, ignoring Parliament, hiding the facts from the public's eyes, bringing good-willed, solution-based proposals to the public and not putting perception into place. What you're doing is just politics, and you're trying to make political money out of it. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0313par0079	Thank you, Mr. Kören. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Zühal Topcu will speak, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0314par0081	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party on Article 2 of the Law on the Ending of Terror 629 and Enhancing Social Integration. I salute you all. Twenty-one years after the massacre of the chiefs, the perpetrators of the massacre are still unaccounted for, 33 of our martyrs are still lying in that land, and today we are meeting this law here, in fact, which should be seen as a contradiction. Here, in fact, there is now talks on a bill brought here as a result of a negotiation with a terrorist organization. In fact, there is no such practice for powerful states in any part of the world, we want to state it. In particular, there have been terrorist incidents in many countries, but by making compromises in this way, the fact that such a negotiation is being held without a retreat, without a gun drop reveals the state's weakness, we would like to point out. And none of the really powerful countries are directly dealing with terrorist organizations. It's not really in the state tradition to deal with and deal with the terrorist organization in the process of resolving it. Now, in the state, especially the legitimacy of gun use is limited to the institutions set by the state. Other than that, an entity will provide the basis for the creation of a parallel state within the country and for the division of the country, as the Minister has just stated, as our colleagues in the opposition speak as if the country has been divided and gone. In fact, the Minister himself, the academic, we as academics, will act from the data we have to come to a conclusion from experience, and eventually, we will take a step towards a certain conclusion. Given the progress of events in Turkey that have been going on for 30 years from the past, especially in 12 years, we say, yes, Mr. Secretary, that this country is on the verge of a gradual division. It's expressed in such a manner, but it's not easily divisible... no, it's on the verge of a rapid division with your power, and we want to stress this in particular: Here, with the government's attitude in the solution process, if you don't have a weapon, we don't take you into account. He has already ignored no instruments in the region except the PKK, and has not focused on political, social, economic formations. In short, the shirt button was buttoned wrong, and the result would be wrong. Moving from the paradigm to the goal, which allows all means to reach the goal, the country's difficult conditions to become president are being set up, and the state of division is now inescapable. Because with no words to say, the answers to divide against the villain of the Imran, the House is under heavy pressure. By July 25th, each day of the week, the decision was made to run until dawn. In particular, you made the decision until July 2, which came from the mountain, Kandil, and you made the decision, and we are not responsible for what happens after that. After his testimony came, this law was brought here quickly. In particular, the PKK and its extensions, which received unconditional surrenders in exchange for support of the presidential candidate, spoke about referendums and independence, while the government representatives' cooperation with the Imralı criminal brought the country to the point of division. In particular, parliament is under pressure and has been declared mobilisation to meet ahead of the presidential election. In particular, if the division bill passed metazorially in the Commission, brought to the Parliamentary Council is legal, there will be division talks with the terrorist leader and the group of killers in the mountain, and the grounds for avoiding legal, administrative, and criminal responsibilities for those who make these talks. The Council of Ministers is also trying to obtain the necessary authority for this division. As we have already stated, this law is a law that will bring the country to partition, and we, the National Movement Party, are against it because if the AKP, which is working until now to carry out its orders to be happy, what has it done for Turkmeneli, Telafer, Kerkuk, especially for Turkmens from their homeland, what does it do for them? I wonder if that kind of work has brought up mobilization for them. What is being done to solve their problems? They're unknown, and we can't see such a mobilization. And again, what has this power done for our flag, which has been especially downloaded? At first, a child about 14-15 years old was tried to be overlooked by the testimony of a child, while the current figure was reported missing and was part of the PKK's terrorist organization, and with this bill, the foundations for the division of Turkey were laid out. The government, leaving the southeast of Turkey to the PKK, has opened the way for PKK's politicalisation with this bill. It is now clear that the strategic partner of the government is Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and that the government and its terrorist leader are negotiating on the bill as well. And this bill is aiding and abetting the separatists inside and out. Everyone now knows that the PKK flag is flying less than a mile from a military checkpoint on Diyarbakır Police Station, and it is clear that terrorists have won in any case when the ceasefire process is declared to collapse. The police station is known to have stopped building castles. PKK flags appear to be hanging everywhere. The rangers are known to be unclaimed. At the same time in spring, it appears thousands of college youths have come up the mountain, especially with the introduction of the solution process, and again, with the reform package, everyone now knows that thousands of terrorist activists have been released from prison, the laws that allow Kurdish education in private schools pass through parliament, and yet, in villages, we see communities, neighborhood councils, and then city councils. Now, when we come from around here and we know that the terrorist leader of the Imralı had drawn up the road map in 2009, and since 2009, we've seen the government's efforts to carry out this road map. Now, we want to tell Mr. Prime Minister that especially the mothers were hidden behind the mothers to divide the country, and the mothers should not cry. The hearts of the mothers were burned, and the mothers should not cry. The country was brought to the brink of division, and the mothers should not cry. The common values were scorned, and the mothers should not cry. They differentiated, and the mothers should not cry. Again, mothers should not cry. And today, as Mr. Energy Minister explained today, the basis for the free electricity distribution of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been set up on our bills, but we say that the mothers are no longer able to cry anymore, they cried much in the 12-year AKP power, and we now say that by the power vested in us by the Third Amendment of our Constitution, the state of Turkey is indivisible with its country and nation. His language is Turkish. The flag is a white moon star flag, shaped by the law. The national anthem is the Stystallal March. We are basing this on: We reject this law as the National Movement Party, and we don't accept it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0315par0094	Thank you, Mr. Gunner. On behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mr. Idris Baluken will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0316par0098	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the bill we consider the negotiating framework law. I salute you all. I don't think it's necessary to do a lot of theoretical analysis, it's very simple. This bill, valued lawmakers, will we solve a problem that has existed for a hundred years by law, by war? For a hundred years, we've decided to solve this problem with war. For a hundred years, we've brought denial, rejection, assimilation to our own people in a way of policy, and we've tried to solve even the smallest objection to denial, assimilation, with force, with oppression, with death, with carnage. We have not been able to resolve it with war, as a need to give up a method that we have done for a hundred years, and now as a state, we will now be in the effort to solve it with the law, he says. It may not have been named correctly, it may have inadequacies in its content, it may not be able to solve a problem on its own, but in order to establish a mentality, we think that the law here is important, that the bill here is historical. The state's organization, as we call it, is the state's capacity to address problems by law. A state should not be afraid to solve an existing problem by law. On the contrary, if there is a problem, you can only become a state by making laws, by defining problems in laws, by establishing the solution to problems in those laws in historical perspective. Other than that, the methods, in fact, are not the methods of state organisation. For the first time, the rational state mind comes into play in Turkey. For the first time, instead of war, I'm trying to solve this with negotiation, dialogue, peace, blood, tears, pain, slaughter, rational state mind instead of death. That's why the bill here is important. This rational state mind, if it applies to its old habits, if it does not provide the content of the law very accurately, if it continues to build its methodology, style, methodology through old habits, we will continue to experience the sufferings that someone has always expressed from here, which they almost eagerly expressed. You don't have to be a soothsayer to predict these things. So what we need to do is to fill the content of the law, which the rational state mind has set in front of us, in the right way, thinking about all the details as best possible, and to give our people a way to lasting peace so that they don't waste a historic opportunity. If there is lasting peace at the end of this road, what greater honor is there than that, and what is more virtuous than that? If defending this law is to defend the path to lasting peace, if it is to defend the path to the great democratic solution, there is no more valuable, more important, more virtuous stance, we don't think. We've been listening to opponents here for hours, and I'm surprised. What is your alternative, if you say not to resolve it by law? Should we continue to solve the war? Will the young continue to die? Should people continue to suffer? Haven't there been enough pain in this land for a century? Do these peoples have the patience to suffer for another century? I think we need to put this on the table in a cool, reasonable way. It's important from here on out. After that, let us resolve all our problems by law, and with the Constitution. If there is a Kurdish problem in this country, if Kurdish is not mentioned in one law, let's solve it by defining it in the law. If there is a problem, let us resolve it by defining the rights of Alevi. Let's solve it within the Constitution, within the law, if the illegitimate, sincere Muslim, religious, has problems with any differences in this country. That's the way all democratic law states apply, all developed countries. And this is the first time we've discussed a change of mind in Congress, and we need to discuss this without fear, and we need to show it without fear, because the period of denial, the period of rejection, the period of assimilation is over. Look, we're talking about the Kurdish issue. Even if you don't want to finish it, it's over. Go south, go south to the country you've never been to, go to the border of Iraq, Syria; look on the other side of the 1,000km of Turkey. 1,000 kilometers away, the Kurdish reality, which you still advocated for his denial, is destroying a status quo in the Middle East. In the Middle East, a historical nation shapes the world agenda, the Middle East agenda, to question the state structure. Let's not define the Kurdish reality, which has come to the border in south Kurdistan and in Rojava. What does it mean, how realistic, is there any credibility left? When you are on the other side of the border with the Turkmen, the Assyrians, the Suryans, the Arabs, the Sunni Shii, the Kurdish reality that shapes the common future, the reality that you have imposed on your 1,000km limit here in the native language, would it divide the country, or not divide the country? Can you approach it with its shallowness? So now we all have to change our minds. We are clear on the spirit of the solution process: Turkey taking a historic step with the Kurds, a historic Turkish-Kurdish alliance to create a model of peace for all our peoples, all the Middle East peoples. There's no need to be afraid of that. Turkey is a great athlete whose muscles are all right with a writer's analogy. But it can't run, it can't run, it can't run, it can't run, it can't run to prosperity, it can't run to a democratic, liberal level, it can't run to a goal. Because he's got a deep pain in his stomach, a big pain. As long as you don't deal with this pain, there's no way to move forward, dear friends, no matter how advanced the muscles of this athlete are. Let's solve all our problems in national, ethnic, political, cultural, economic terms through negotiation. Is there anything better than that? There's no need to be afraid of peace. By morning, Mr. Secretary has been asked questions over statistics from the last two years. I'd like Mr. Secretary to come out and answer me this... and I'll even ask him: Mr. Secretary, there's been a solution process for two years. How many young people have lost their lives due to the conflicting process, but how many young people have lost their lives in the two years just before the solution process, put it in front of us, the previous two years, two years in the process of solving. I'm not discriminated against, we need to shout from here in a very strong way if we're doing a job that's keeping the military, the police, the ranger, the civilian, the guerrilla, the people of this country alive even in these two years. We think the Kurdish problem is a result, we think rejection, assimilation is the result of denial, and we say it should be opened. There's a lot of world examples, and we've talked a lot about the Commission, and there's not enough time. But today, I would like to express my satisfaction that a large majority of Parliament is offering a will for the continuation of the solution process, in support of the continuation of the solution. I would especially like to express that the government should care about the position of the Republican People's Party and that the process should accept the position of an actor in order to inform the Republican People's Party in the future. And I want to say that those who oppose the solution will vote for the solution process in a month. There are three presidential candidates, and each 3/o should continue the process of solution. Peace must come instead of war. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't look at what people here today are saying. A month later, every citizen who goes to the polls for the presidency will say yes to the solution process in Turkey, saying yes to the hope of peace. And with these feelings, I wish that this bill would lead to lasting peace, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0317par0114	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Friday will speak from the heart, Diyarbakır MP
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0117	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin with a fact that we've always expressed in faith. The fact of this country's pre and post-AK PARTY is that we need to look at the tears of our people in our country before the AK PARTY, and the hopes of our people in our country after the AK PARTY. Blood, tears, deaths, separations, sorrows and sorrows, the tears of our people, who have a huge heart in tiny bodies, are hidden in the history of our country, where we have lived many more and many more. To look at the Kurdish problem before our rule, you have to look at the 1925s, Sheikh Said events, the tears that 47 of our grandfathers shed when they were being executed without a trial by false courts. The tears of the children who bore witness to the death of their mother were naked when the plane from Diyarbakır in 1937 bombed Dermim. Between 1925 and 2001, the tears of our people, whose countless villages were burned to death, when they left behind the lands their grandfather inherited one night in the tractors. In the early 1990s, when the father came home in the evening to kiss the five - year - old girl, smelling and kissing, he had to look forward to the smell of his daughter being executed without a trial by uniforms, and walking to her death without being lawful with his loved ones. To warm my own grandmother's child in the cold of winter, you have to look at the trauma and tears that she suffered from putting on her chest and causing her death.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0319par0119	Don't tell stories, don't tell stories.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0120	In the years I was in Operation Hammer 1997, 30 soldiers of my friends cried over the coffins of their families as I watched them on television screens, looking at the tears we shed with our fellow soldiers. It is necessary to look at the tears of the same religious tradition that hung around the neck of the dead PKK's Kurdish youth and the cresche around my neck. When a father's child is taken from his nest to the mountain, you have to look at the storms, the silent screams, and the tears. I'm defending your rights. Why do you betray Kurds? Why do you have to raid villages that are rangers and look at the tears of thousands of Kurds with the hands of women, children, old and young?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0320par0121	What about Roboski?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0122	It's either the state or the PKK that's been forced to choose, but ultimately, you have to look at the affinity and tears of people being persecuted on both sides. You have to look at the tears of Kurds, Kurds, who have had different feelings in school, in their own house, in their own street, in their own village, in different languages for years, who have failed to become Kurds or become Turks. When a mother comes from a mountain child's funeral, and she can't decide where to bury her own child, and she can't even mourn her own, she has to look at her tears, or look at her tears, while she's being executed by her own friends, while she's being executed by her own friends, while her mother's words are ringing in her ear. You need to look at the tears of mothers, grandmothers, other older children, who are growing up talking with pictures hanging on the wall in their martyr homes every day. Yes, our sufferings are so great with Kurd and his Turk that we should start competing which one of them is going to be competing with each other.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0320par0123	Count Roboski. Count Roboski. Get a Roboski out of your mouth.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0124	Which one is worthless and worthless? 8,000 public servants died, 22,000 PKK people died, nearly 20,000 people died, 50,000 people.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0320par0125	All right, but what if you sing a Roboski? Why don't you just sing Roboski? What will happen on this stand if you sing a Roboski!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0126	Let's start by reading the names and counting them one by one. First of all, I wish them all God's mercy. 1: Martyr Marine Altan Yenl. 2: Martyr Cop Ahmet Yasar. 3: The wife of the ranger who was pregnant in the village of Koçkar in Diyarbakır is Cadriye Yacı. At 4: 15, Zozan Arif went up the mountain. 5: Innocent babies who were shot to pieces while still in the womb and in the beaver, with no name known. It'll only take two days to count them, friends, easy to say.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0321par0133	Just get Roboski out of your mouth.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0134	We all have our pain. Soldiers, police, the families of martyrs, the pain is ours. For whatever reason on the mountain, our dead citizens are our citizens. Pain for all of us, mourning for all of us, tears for all of us. This was the time when we lived with tears and blood. And now, as I just mentioned, we have to look at it after the AK PARTY. Our country was already divided by the State of Emergency before we arrived. We saved our country from division and made it whole. In twenty-one hours, when we go to our village with a report card, the flour, sugar, tea we answer to is no longer accounted for. Now I'm going to my village in an hour. When my father was in prison with my mother, when we went to visit her in Diyarbakir Prison, they talked without a word, just looking at each other with eyes, and I've never forgotten that moment in my life when I was in tears. But now it's free to speak the native language, to learn in our schools, alhamdulillah. In fact, we have found the perpetrator of 14,000 of the murders committed by the deep government called the unknown, and there is no political murder committed by the AK PARTI. Returns to the village have begun, and now we are planting our land. With the AK PARTY power, the Kurdish problem is over, dear friends. The more problems an Arab has in my country, the more problems a Kurdish has left. The problem is democracy, human rights and equal citizenship. Those who feed on blood, those who do not want equal citizenship, those who have seen Kurds as a problem for years, those who are oppressors, we are now in this country, and this country is our country as much as it is yours. This flag smells of my grandfather's blood. I have as much rights as you do. As a Kurd, I am an honored and honored citizen of the Republic of Turkey under the moon-star flag. Those who are in the west of the country, who have never been to the east, who see the country as nothing but Antalya, İzmir, İstanbul, and us. There are so many Kurds who think like me and myself, that there are so many of us, that as long as we're here, no one can divide this country, relax. Me and Kurds like me, we don't want a separate state, a separate state or autonomy or status. We've started living as equal citizens under the same flag, and we'll continue to live together, I hope. Some of them may not want to come and get votes from our citizens, but rest assured, we will be there on your behalf at the cost of our lives. What did you always say when the State of Emergency was lifted, when the primary language came in, when the prisons were being held in the main language, when the Metropolitan Act came out? The country will be divided, the country will be divided, the country will be divided. So, look, we are entering the thirteenth year, the country is not divided, rather, the country has grown bigger and larger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0322par0136	You're cutting a watermelon and you're splitting it up?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0318par0137	The Kurds are not just PKK (KCK) and NEP (KCK) friends, and the Kurds' demands are not above them. Reminiscing Kurds with PKK is an insult to Kurds. The people are the ones dealing with the AK PARTI. The largest political formation among Kurds is the EC PARTY itself. It is an insult to the Kurds to associate existing demands with the PKK. We've taken the liberty we've believed to be true for twelve years. Of course, in both the PKK and within the state, parallel structure extensions that feed on blood do not want to be solved; it is natural and it is proof that we are actually on the right path. With three self-absorbed cowards on the road and kidnapping, the solution cannot be undermined. If the martyr mothers can stand up to the children who go up the mountain and stand up to the PKK, well, it's the blessing of the solution process. In this sense, I support the solution process and send greetings to the mothers who want their children in the square of Diyarbakır. Mr. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Deputy Prime Minister, who has contributed to the struggle for freedom, Mr. Besir Atalay, our government and the support of political parties, MPs, ruling leaders, and civil society organizations, would like to thank you in front of the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0323par0140	Thank you. Congressmans, we've come to the speech department on behalf of their people. First speaker on behalf of Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0324par0145	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the End of Terror and the Enhancing of Social Integration. I salute you all. Now, when we look at the talks, is it possible that when you talk about social integration, hugging, peace, flowers in the mountains, guns silent, mothers don't cry, no one who's human when you talk about these positive concepts can argue with that? Is it possible for any man, who has love of man in his heart and heart, who has love for his country, who has love for God, to oppose these things, to oppose them? But now I'm asking you from here: Who is the PKK terrorist organization? The PKK is a terrorist organization that has killed our military, our police, the baby in the fire, who has killed the child, who has killed the teacher who spends the night and day teaching the children a letter. Now, what about the murder of our young brother who died on his way home to the Doves, 33 soldiers who were discharged from the army? Where are we going to put that young man who was murdered by PKK terrorists while waiting in front of his classroom? To talk about peace here, democracy here, social embrace here... these are good concepts, let's all get them together. Who are you going to do it with? If you, Abdullah Ocalan, the ringleader of this bloody terrorist organization, who drew your road map, is forcing this map on you, and you're going to go with it, you've already started wrong. There's no way to accept that. Otherwise, no one expects the National Movement Party to bleed, to cry, but if they blame it on the spot, they'll betray this country first. As a nationalist movement party, we don't want a citizen bleeding their noses out in this country. Whatever needs to be done about it, here's where the National Party of Action is going to do it. But if your companion is the one who killed the soldier who was on duty there, if you're going to work with him, that's not the answer. You can't get right by wrong. You can't go wrong and get results. Otherwise, let's get social integration, we have no problem with that. No matter how they judge it. Our Kurdish citizens are our first-class citizens. Who sees him apart? It says here: "He doesn't accept." Who doesn't? In my family, we took the Kurdish girl, we gave the Kurdish girl. Where are you going to put it, where are you going to count it? We got together like meat and nails. We are one. No one in Çanakkale said Kurd, Türk, Alevi, Sunni, Bosniak, Çerkek. Those phrases came with you. They all had one goal: the protection of this country, the protection of this nation. We fought together in the Salvation War, we fought together. Let us question together if there is a flaw in what has been done, and whoever has been wronged, and whoever has been wronged, and whoever is wronged, and whoever is wronged, and whoever is wronged, let us question together. But you'll be traveling with the PKK terrorist organization, slaughtering my baby in arson, being murdered by PKK terrorist under his arm on your way to school, and what will you bring with this law? You will bring him forgiveness; whatever you count, the content of this law brings it. So what did those martyrs fight for? They fought the unity of this country, they fought the flag. Here, both my Kurdish brother and my Turkish brother, no matter what ethnicity they come from, in peace and security in this country... He is being killed by PKK terrorists at the police station while standing guard in Adana. Now, we're not going to see this, and when it comes to saying that, well, there's going to be flowers in the mountains, and mothers won't cry, and guns won't stop. But do it right. Where are we going to put this PKK terror organization? PKK terrorist organization is a killer, heroin trafficker, arms dealer, there are many forces within its humidity. You will bring the law by threat; and they will say, "If you don't bring this law by July 2nd, there will be riots under the name......... x)."..... shall we submit to these threats?" Yes, we will do what must be done for this nation's unity. Whatever was done yesterday, we'll do the same today. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0325par0151	Thank you. Second speaker on behalf of Mr. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0326par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, when we look at the bill, first I want to cool the air a little bit. When we look at it from a technical point of view, the 1st Amendment law itself is 19 words and 22 words are the basis. Look, in any of the laws, there's a better reason, a better way to explain it, and it needs to be made clear to the public. We're looking at the 2nd article, 114 words, 16 words for the motive. It's far from understood again. We're looking at item three, 25 words. They tried to tell us a little bit more there, 56 words. We're looking at item four, 27 words. Well, they're trying to stretch the motive here again, 48 words. So when you look at it from the point of view of law technique, how can we solve this when the real appliances are in trouble, let's look at a reason for the law, when the lawmaker says what they're trying to say here, unfortunately, the reason is not that it's more understandable than the law itself. Well, I want to solve this problem. I didn't have the law, I didn't have the argument, I couldn't do it. You're going to say, "Is this really sincere?" That's a lie. Can't he figure it out if he wants to? I tell you, it's quite comfortable... read the third article of our Constitution, Article 118, and read the second article of what is available, and it's a perfect match. There are some differences of concepts, some sentences are different; the Article 118 of the Constitution, more or less, is consistent. I read: The National Security Council, the appointment of the state's national security policy -- the determination and implementation of policy in Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Union -- is again there -- and there are arrangements for the Council of Ministers to ensure the necessary co-ordination in Article 2 of the Article 2 of the Union. He already makes all kinds of decisions in the Council of Ministers, he says. And where have you been for 12 years, Mr. AKP power? I mean, it's really far from serious in that sense. And if you want to do that, it's really a fundamental problem of our democracy, it's a Kurdish problem, yes. It's a problem that's been considered taboo for many years. Today, in its name, yes, it is, of course, an important development. More importantly, democracy in Turkey will not be able to move beyond lameness unless the Kurdish issue is addressed in all its aspects at first, as long as there is a free debate on realistic solutions to be developed on it, as long as these solutions are not isolated and alive. Now, we're looking, of course, at this point, we're calling it democracy, good. At Artuklu University, you raised a thousand graduate students who had mastered native language education. Were you able to transfer him? Where are these people working? Were you able to create the field of employment? You didn't create it. Here, at the same time, books were published in Kurdish. Why did you print these books, why didn't you distribute them, or did you print these books so someone could win the tender? Again, in the same way, so, what's your diagnosis? No diagnosis. You're going to diagnose the disease, and then... Here you say, sir, we will rehabilitate them. There's no disease. People go up the mountain, believing -- you like -- for a reason, for a purpose, whether you like it or not. You, sir, are the people who go up the mountain. We're going to treat this disease... a false practice. It's the wrong concept. It's not the right concept. You kill people who leave the streets in Turkey, you blind them. We saw it on the field trip. How is that peaceful? There is no peace in your mindset. Because the election is coming up, you've brought it up to the agenda in order to cool it down, to put it in the fridge, to fool the public again. Without freedom, democracy does not solve the Kurdish problem. Parties in the world that solve the Kurdish problem are soy-democratic parties. It's the Republican People's Party that's going to solve this, and you'll see, it's really...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0327par0167	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0326par0168	Your current deputies were the interior minister of that period in 95. I mean, if there wasn't a choice in that sense, it wouldn't be a problem again. It's just for show, it's totally...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0327par0171	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0328par0172	You're the one who created the problem, the one who created it. You've created this problem for 30 years.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0327par0173	Congressmans, on the matter, there is a motion in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two of the bill. To continue the negotiations on the matter. Md. I'll give it to you. Yours truly. As a result of the search for alliances in the presidential election process, the President has been brought to the TBMM agenda with the threat of the separatist PKK terrorist organisation and has made the PKK terror organization legitimate, has made the PKK terror organization legal and equal to the government's legal and agreement with the PKK, has a political will with the PKK, I will not be able to change the sovereignty of the government and the institution of the state, which represents the sovereign will of the government's weapon, and I will not be able to violate the constitution of the state's [professssion] organization's [responsibility] with its [profectionary] terrorist organization, and I will not be able to change its sovereignty over its [prohibited] property, over its [prohibition of] and [prohibition of] the [prohibition of] the [properity of] the] state and the [properity of] state] the [properity of] state] the [property of] state and the [properity of] the [properity] [properity] [re] the] the] [re] the] the] the] the [profemity and the] [res] [re] [properity of] the] the] [proper] the] the] [re] the] [re] the] [re] [re] [re] [re] the] the] the] the] the] [properment and the] [properity of] [pro] [properity of] the] [properity and the] [properity of] [properity and the] [proper] [re] [re] [re] [properity and the] [proper] [proper] [re] [re] [proper] [proper] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re] [re]] [ The MPs who have taken the oath have been advised to continue the talks in order to further be informed of the arrangement that would undermine this oath. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0329par0183	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0327par0184	I'll submit the motion to your votes, and I'll call the number of meetings enough: Mr. Vural, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Kutluata, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Right, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Tolak, Mr. Adan, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Simsek, Mr. Gourkulu, Mr. Özensoy. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're going to begin the QA now, but I'd like to ask the MPs I've read your name to go back into the system. Mr. Right, Mr. Light, Mr. Tallırmak, Mr. Öz, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Seyfetttin Yilmaz, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz. Congressmans, we have now come to the question-answer section. Our time will be ten minutes; we'll be asked five minutes; in the next five minutes, Mr. Secretary will answer the questions asked. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0330par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister of Energy announced today that the PKK's terrorist organisation organised the use of illegal electricity in the southeast. In accordance with these statements, what effect has the PKK's terrorist organization had on illegal electricity use in the southeastern thus far? How much illegal electricity has been detected in the last year? What kind of sanction has been imposed on illegal electricity users by your government? Are the road maps that you're going to set up after this include regulations for forgiveness of those who use illegal electricity? How do you intend to collect illegal electricity that has been used so far, at the price of electricity? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0331par0198	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0332par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 2 of the draft law states that steps will be taken on political, legal, socioeconomic, psychological and cultural issues aimed at the end of terrorism and strengthening social integration. Is this the result of an agreement with Kandil, İmralı and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? If so, we'd like to know what the agreement is. My second question: the biggest source of income for terrorist organizations is drug trafficking. We'd like to know how much money terrorist organisations made from drug trafficking in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0333par0203	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0334par0204	Mr. President, thank you. Here's the joke in the article. In the event of necessity, people abroad and abroad decide to make contact with institutions and institutions, dialogues, talks, and so on. Is it within this clause that the referee has been appointed and interviewed or met with international observers? If such talks take place, will the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be informed of these talks? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0335par0209	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0336par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in a speech made in September 2012 by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, who is involved with terror, this is important. I mean, what am I supposed to talk to someone who's involved in terrorism? How am I supposed to talk to a wife president with a cheek to cheek with terrorists? When I talk to this, what do the mothers of martyrs in this country -- you're just saying -- don't let the mothers cry. What do these crying mothers say when they see me at the same table as a Prime Minister? I'm sorry, I can't change one mother's tears to any of them. She used her expression. So, what changed today, and now you're trying to pass a law on the Turkish Grand National Assembly at this time of night in order to meet the demands of the PKK terrorist organization? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0337par0214	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0338par0215	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the number of young people going up the mountain during the solution process you started? In the process of resolving, did the PKK hand out weapons to militants it assigned to the city's configuration, particularly Cizre? My third question: Is it true that they are preparing for riots in Kandil (Kandil) with cell formations formed by self-defense units at the 4th strategic term meeting attended by senior members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? In view of all these developments, does this plan have anything to do with the fact that the government has given you until July 2nd? Is this the result of that threat? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0339par0219	Let's just ask him one more question, just one quick question. Mr. Halaman... no. Yes, Mr. Secretary, please. You have five minutes.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Light asked me a question about illegal electricity use. Our Minister of Energy was here, but he left, so let's give him to you after we get some information. Mr. Right, of course, I can't tell you how much about drugs and how much, but, you know, we have a big fight about drugs. During my time in the Ministry of Interior, it was one of the most important works and studies carried out by Turkey before and after. You know, Turkey is a transit country in drugs. So the drug from the Far East was going to the European side via Turkey at a certain rate. There's been a huge struggle, and it's moved north, so it's kind of on the Ukrainian side or something. Turkey is still fighting seriously on this issue, and I'd like to express it. He used the word "mutant" here, Mr. Right. Dear friends, let me be clear here: This is Mr. Yilmaz, who asked the last question, here, he gave the time of the kandil, etc., etc., etc., etc. Dear friends, we need this law in this process of resolution. And we've been talking about this for a very long time, you know. We explained it ourselves after the election. I announced Diyarbakır Workers' Party. These things happen all the time in May. And to be honest, I leave it to you here, of course, to consider your own government, your country's government, to your... to your... to your... to your mercy, to your conscience, to your responsibility. But that's how the government does it for two weeks, I don't know who gave it to me to challenge its own government here. It's like the government doesn't know about our government's work. We've done these things so far, so clearly, these studies. We're not running any covert studies. Clearly, in Turkey, these problems...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0341par0229	Everything's confidential, which one's open?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0230	We're trying to figure it out.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0342par0231	Oslo wasn't open.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0232	We're trying to solve these problems.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0343par0233	Didn't you meet secretly in Oslo? You met like lovers there.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0344par0234	First you flirt, then the engagement, now you're getting married.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0235	We're doing all this for the sake of our country, for the future of our nation.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0345par0236	May God take care of you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0237	There's a question here by Mr. Redhead, international observer, et cetera. Dear lawmakers, Turkey is conducting the process we're conducting, there is no international intermediary. We're seeing each other directly, that's our way, and that's what we're gonna do from now on. And we haven't launched an international mechanism in these studies, and we're not going to, and we're going to inform both our nation and the Assembly of the developments, of course.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0346par0239	He's already learning from the media, Congress. If you love God, the Foreign Minister doesn't come here anyway. You don't answer questions.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0240	And also, of course, everyone here says what they think, and people ask questions, and so do we. There's a policy we've been following since the day we became government in Turkey, and we're on the right line, and we're on it. As I said in the beginning, we're already different parties.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0346par0242	You've been lying around.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0243	Different parties may think differently, we respect them, but as a ruling party, that's what we think.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0347par0244	Do you think differently in the east, in the west, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0245	We also know that no matter what we do, no matter what we say, you will never approve, and you will never discuss anything about it, no matter what we do, you will criticize it. That's normal.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0348par0246	You're very judgmental.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0340par0247	After all, we're discussing a very important matter here in the House. Everyone says what they think, but without charges -- if there's blame, we answer -- without insults. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So we think it's very important, it's very important. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0349par0252	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0350par0254	He didn't answer the questions.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0349par0255	Please...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0351par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0349par0257	There are two motions on Article 2...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0351par0258	Oh, Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0352par0259	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0349par0260	...reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 2nd amendment of the current law bill, 629 rows, shall be changed as follows. Secret by Darayya Leader İdris Bauken Pervin Buldan Altan Tan Faysal Sarı Yıldız Nazmi Gür "Construction, monitoring and coordination MADDE 2- (1) The Government/Turkey National Assembly is obliged to carry out the necessary work and take precautions in the following issues as part of the resolution process. A) The leaders of the debate determine the political, legal, socio-economic, psychological, human rights, ecology, confrontation with the facts, the launch of the bilateral disarmament and de-militarization process and the launch of the process of violence and social peace. The talks take place during sessions with an observer delegation of local or foreign institutions, organisation or real individuals tasked with monitoring democratic negotiating committees and the peace process, mediating among the parties, and preparing reports on resolving problems. The proper techniques and methods for the negotiations are used; talks are recorded and archived. C) The frequency and style of negotiations held on the basis of social peace is determined by the parties. Reports on developments in negotiations are regularly shared with the public. D) If the negotiation is deemed necessary by the parties, it is decided that contact with persons, institutions and organisations abroad, dialogue, talks, and so forth, and those who will carry out these activities will be assigned to persons, institutions, or organisations. e) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly guarantees the end of violence and the recognition of social peace and democratic and equal political rights for all citizens. F) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly is obliged to take measures to remove legal or actual barriers in front of the use of civil, political and social rights and freedoms. He does the necessary legislation on this matter. G) Government/Turkey's Grand National Assembly does legislation for the removal of segregation and racist statements in the legislation. H) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly takes measures to remove all paramilitary structures and units created during the conflicting process for the establishment of social peace. The government/Turkey Grand National Assembly organises the necessary arrangements for armed members to participate in democratic, civil, political and social life and to create the basis for democratic struggle in accordance with its political goals. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0279	Mr. President, this is my first word to you, the MPs here will ask the Minister through you. My last name is Longneck, and when you promised me, you said, "Mr. Longneck." Mr. Secretary, why don't you correct me when you tell me to be angry?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0354par0280	I didn't say angry.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0281	Two: If the Minister refrains from addressing a congressman, especially a member of parliament whom he deals with several times, do you think he's trying or is his memory senile?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0282	Mr. Longhorn, please don't insult me, it can slip a man's tongue.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0283	I'm not insulting, I'm not insulting. I mean, a minister...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0284	Please don't insult me when I explain what you're thinking.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0285	Wait a minute, wait till I'm done.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0286	Look, you're using an offensive word. One o'clock at night, you can slip a man's tongue.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0287	Five, if you like.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0288	Don't abuse me, please.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0289	You'll have to wait for my word to be finished.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0290	I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0353par0292	You'll have to wait for my word to be finished.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0355par0293	I'm having the other motion read, please. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 1/941 of the original bill of law...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0356par0296	You're gonna have to wait for a congressman to finish. Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0357par0297	Mr. President... I'm not... We propose and propose that Article 2 be removed from the draft text. Oktay Vural Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Erdogan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Zuhal Topcu Özcan Yeniçeri Enlargement Area Sinan Oğan Scholar Light
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0358par0307	What's the procedure, what's the style, Mr. President? Well, that's how you manage.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0359par0309	Does the Commission agree with the latest motion?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0360par0310	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0359par0311	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0361par0312	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0359par0313	İstanbul MP Celal Adan will speak on the motion. Please come in.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0362par0316	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In the past, I used the expression that if this government falls, if a just government comes, the next life of this government will be in prison. Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay Bey has shown a reaction. Rest assured, I'm sitting in the back watching this place. We're watching a theater. I don't think anyone speaks with faith. There's a movement inside of you -- social scientists -- that's how it starts. We no longer feel the need to say certain things about the PKK's terrorist organization. When you enter the Internet, when you attend a meeting, there's not a single person there who can say there's a Turkish state. An organization that sent its MP to Ağrı, sent another MP to Mardin with a direct order and took its power from the gun can't shape Turkey, it can't impose any force on you, it doesn't have that power. Turkey is bigger than the Justice and Development Party; it is bigger than all of us, not the Justice and Development Party. If Turkey is not divided today, the great Turkish nation, which digested a great empire-building civilization, is preventing division. With great patience, the great Turkish nation watches what will is able to divide Turkey. But you lost 2,300,000 votes in the March 30th election, and you turned it into a media victory. If you run for office today, you'll lose another 2 million votes, and we'll see in the presidential election. Today, when you come and use your statements, you use the language that almost makes those watching you cry, legitimizing the PKK terrorist organization. I told you here, in the past, they hanged the late Adnan Menderes, whose children went and threw stones into the window of which factory, which coffee shop? The villagers were executed, we served time in prisons, so if we tell you what we did here in prison, we'll tell you something terrible, we've been in Mamak Prison for years. So, they killed our friends there, right in front of us, how many of them went out and threw a rock at a police station? What right do you have to shoot a soldier? In Istanbul, Ankara, half the Council of Ministers, the will of the Republic of Turkey, which we don't like, the will of the state of Turkey, which we're trying to liquidate, did the Justice and Development Party bring a brotherhood law that equates Diyarbakır and Şırnakn and Samsunlu, not under the administration of the state, into all kinds of sections of the state? There's no such parliament in the world; you'll take a month from the state, you'll swear at the state, you'll take a month from the state, you'll curse people! When we watch this Prime Minister, we can't help but think, "What's going on in Turkey?" You sent the MPs to the Supreme Court and sent them to Kandil. Four or five thousand hands armed... A spokesman was just saying what a wave shapes in the Middle East. They're describing a century-old geography in which people will slaughter each other with democracy, organised by Americans entering the blood of 1.5 million Muslims. We're dealing with a mental eclipse. We can handle the PKK terrorist organization, but I see an alliance here, and everyone's trying to make an effort to become a PKK terrorist organization. This has nothing to do with the solution. Review the nationalist Movement Party's stance across Turkey. If the National Movement Party had no common sense, no faith in democracy, no faith in unity, we'd create 10 Kandils from the accident of Tokat. We'd create big things from all sides of Turkey, but we believe that by taking power from the nation, by taking power from the legitimate ground, this issue would be solved. You've created a view of Turkey with 45,000 armed hands, threatening Turkey on the foothills of the mountain, listening to threats by terrorist militants whose names I'm ashamed to even use. What was the Prime Minister calling for the democratic movement? Put down the gun in your hand and get this many votes. Thus, we are faced with a view of Turkey, which has been in power for many years and the Ark in Turkey cannot protect.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0327	Thank you, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0362par0328	It's a shame, it's a sin. Aziz, I find it difficult to understand this effort to keep the PKK happy until the day of Ramazan, but the Turkish nation's ledger has been processed. No one has to worry about that. No one can divide Turkey.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0330	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0332	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0333	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, no motions.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0335	Mr. President, it was not right for a member of parliament to speak on behalf of Mr. Secretary while using a statement on whether this was intentional or not, to speak on behalf of him and to interrupt the MP's right to speak on this matter. It's rude.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0336	I believe what I'm doing is right. I didn't speak for Mr. Secretary in his place.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0337	You spoke for him.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0338	The Minister has the ability to protect himself.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0339	You run the House, you are not the Council of Ministers or the defense of individuals.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0340	I interfered with the word he used in accordance with the Parliament's rules of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0342	You're not the defense.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0343	I know what I'm doing, I know what I'm doing.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0344	And we know what we're saying. You're not the defense, you're running the House, you're running the House.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0363par0345	I'm having the other motion read...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0365par0346	You don't know anything.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0347	Mr. President, I'd like a word on your attitude, Mr. President. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the 2nd amendment of the current law bill 629 rows be changed in the following way. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0366par0351	What the hell!
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0352	Mr. President, this is no place for your pleasure management.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0367par0353	If you'll excuse me, we're processing. And you can't get up and talk whenever you want, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0354	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0367par0355	For God's sake...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0368par0356	You can't run it however you want.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0364par0357	You can't scold the congressman there. Blaspheming the congressman... don't insult people. I'm not... MADDE 2- (1) The Government/Turkey National Assembly is obliged to carry out the necessary work and take precautions in the following issues as part of the resolution process. A) The leaders of the debate determine the political, legal, socio-economic, psychological, human rights, ecology, confrontation with the facts, the launch of the mutual disarmament process and the launch of the militantisation process and the process of social peace. The talks take place during sessions with an observer delegation of local or foreign institutions, organisation or real individuals tasked with monitoring democratic negotiating committees and the peace process, mediating among the parties, and preparing reports on resolving problems. The proper techniques and methods for the negotiations are used; talks are recorded and archived. C) The frequency and style of negotiations held on the basis of social peace is determined by the parties. Reports on developments in negotiations are regularly shared with the public. D) If the negotiation is deemed necessary by the parties, it is decided that contact with persons, institutions and organisations abroad, dialogue, talks, and so forth, and those who will carry out these activities will be assigned to persons, institutions, or organisations. e) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly guarantees the end of violence and the recognition of social peace and democratic and equal political rights for all citizens. F) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly is obliged to take measures to remove legal or actual barriers in front of the use of civil, political and social rights and freedoms. He does the necessary legislation on this matter. G) Government/Turkey's Grand National Assembly does legislation for the removal of segregation and racist statements in the legislation. H) The Government/Turkey Grand National Assembly takes measures to remove all paramilitary structures and units created during the conflicting process for the establishment of social peace. The government/Turkey Grand National Assembly organises the necessary arrangements for armed members to participate in democratic, civil, political and social life and to create the basis for democratic struggle in accordance with its political goals.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0369par0368	Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0370par0369	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0369par0370	Government?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0371par0371	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0369par0372	Van MP Nazmi Gür will speak on the motion.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0372par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we are discussing an important law that may determine the future of Turkey and its future course. It's a small but important step. Hopefully, from now on, as Mr. Minister and government officials have explained, the peace process will succeed, the democratic solution process, and the following laws that are needed will emerge from this House one by one, so that Turkey will have a real peace, a sustainable peace. To solve such conflicting problems, precious friends need a strong political will and determination. As world examples will see, the solution to such problems requires patience, the solution to such problems requires genuine nerves, determination, strong will, political will. And then there's a second phase after that, which is extremely important, which is the language that the sides use, the way they address each other, the way they perceive each other, the way they understand each other. In this regard, world examples have also shown that, especially when it comes to establishing trust in language, when it succeeds in language, trust in one another, and correct identification of the problem, therefore, language is very important to conduct a healthy discussion on correct analysis and solution proposals. Therefore, the law and all laws that will be passed along with this law must be taken care of in this language. Another important issue, dear friends, is undoubtedly the legal basis. There's no example in the world that a negotiation process without legal ground or international law is not possible, it's not possible, it's not possible. Therefore, this first step to eventually transform the dialogue of the talks that have been going on for the past year and a half is very important, and hopefully this positive approach will continue. Of course, the legal framework isn't enough; Turkey doesn't solve its problems just by taking out the law; it's a very important situation for us to implement these laws, to implement these laws, and to apply them really well for the purpose of these laws. Of course, the mechanisms on the legal ground are also extremely important. With this law, the government may be given a mandate, legal grounds are presented, and there may be a warrant for the creation of mechanisms, but there is a need for new laws to establish this legal mechanism, which need to be filled within the laws, and there is no way to achieve negotiations without a legal mechanism. So, a sustainable peace and dialogue, we need to create a really good mechanism for the negotiation process. Of course, when this mechanism is formed, we are not just talking about a mechanism where the parties will participate, where all parts of society, even those who oppose the solution, have to create open channels, open mechanisms, the integration of civil society organisations, as a whole, the integration of society, women, young people, and therefore everyone in this process, must be carried out in transparency. Thus, the mechanisms to create, singular mechanisms, not one-sided mechanisms, are multilateral mechanisms, even mechanisms that predict the participation of a third party. The fact that a facilitator side, a third eye, and an impartial referee are involved in these processes will undoubtedly contribute to the solution to the problem. Dear friends, one of the most important issues in solving such problems is the transformation and transformation of mentality. Starting with ourselves, of course, I can't say peace is as easy as war. War may be bitter, the consequences of war may be severe, but rest assured, the path to peace and change of mind is as difficult as war, and perhaps too difficult. Therefore, as we demonstrate these approaches, we need to create a change of mind as we move towards peace. Thank you all for listening to me. I bid you good night.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0373par0384	Thank you. Y O L A M A
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0374par0387	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0373par0388	Mr. Vural, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Bal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Right, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Öz, Mr. Şınar, Mr. Yüçük, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Başesgioğlu, Mr. Uzırmak, Mr. Adan, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Turkkan, Mr. Ayhan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start the clock. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, the bill...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0375par0394	Mr. President, I demand a formal discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0373par0395	I'm waiting for the report, Mr. Vural, waiting for the report.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0375par0396	What's the report on?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0373par0397	Let the report come in, and it'll show me where I interfered. After that, if you want, we can open up a formal discussion again. Let's take this vote. There is a motion to vote in the form of an open vote on Article 2 of the bill. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the 629 Numbered Bill of Law be voted in open voting. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. You've done it, Lightning, Samsun? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Zuhal Topcu, Ankara? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Reşat Right, Slap? Here. Ahmet Duran Bulut, Balıkesir? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu, İstanbul? Here. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Faruk Bal, Iconya? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. D. Ali Torlak, Istanbul... where is it? I couldn't see.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0376par0421	I can handle it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0373par0422	Mr Turkkan has taken over, over. Safik Ugly, Hatay? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa? Here. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] I read the clear vote of Article 2 of the Law Bill 629: Thus, the 2nd article was accepted. Now, here are the reports. Mr. Ali Longırmak came here willingly and said: Mr. Minister, if he refuses to address a congressman, especially a member of parliament he's dealt with a few times, do you think he's trying or is his memory senile? And I said, as Acting Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Longneck, please don't insult me, the human tongue can slip. That's the point.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0377par0440	Yes, the will to slip the tongue... maybe he meant it.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0441	Just a minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0377par0442	You got power of attorney?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0443	Mr. President, what you need to do here is to get the Minister to rectify the matter by taking care of my rights.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0444	I gave you my word, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0445	Wait a minute, wait a minute, there's no such thing. I told you at the beginning of my speech, the MP will direct the question to the minister through you. So, first of all, you need to take care of the congressman. That's the way it is here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0447	Don't I take care of you by giving you my word, Mr. Tallie?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0448	No, no, on the contrary...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0449	Please, guys, I don't want to discuss this. I'm trying to run this House according to the Civil Code, which you see here.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0450	Mr. President, you're not making the congressman talk.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0451	When it comes to kindness...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0378par0452	You still don't get the congressman to talk.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0453	...we have to do this to each other.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0380par0454	Mr. President, about your attitude...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0455	Politeness is not one-sided.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0380par0456	About your attitude...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0457	Please, I'm asking you, and...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0380par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit07spe0379par0459	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0379par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 629. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0381par0006	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0379par0007	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0381par0008	Mr. President, look, I have a request for your attitude regarding this. I'm going to look at the documents, I'm going to make a decision. You said that before this started, he took over the Minister's position for the procedure debate. It didn't seem right to use it as a substitute for a minister, and it turned out that Mr. Minister used it on purpose. So, you have to decide whether or not this practice is right, you have to decide whether or not to discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0379par0009	You want it to open?
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0381par0010	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0379par0011	All right, I'll open up the procedural debate. Let's not argue, let's not argue.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0382par0012	It's in favor, sir.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0383par0013	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0384par0014	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0385par0015	Against you.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0386par0016	I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 71 of the Civil Code, I propose that our discussion of procedure be held in closed session. Closed session motion granted. Everyone except the people who can be held in closed session will be removed from the meeting room. If the hall is empty...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0387par0024	He hasn't come yet, sir. He hasn't come yet.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0386par0025	To clear the hall...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0387par0026	The administration's in charge of...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0386par0027	I'm calling in the chiefs of operations. Thank you for the souffle. Congressmans, I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and sworn officers remain in the hall:
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0388par0030	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0389par0031	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-07-08sit08spe0386par0032	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit09spe0386par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the closed session motion, there was not enough of a decision in the vote on whether sworn officers should remain in the hall. Now, I'm going to put the sworn officers back in the hall to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-07-08sit10spe0386par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 10th session of the 113th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the closed session motion, the second vote on the fact that their sworn officers should remain in the hall was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the sworn officers back in the hall, and I'm going to call your votes, and I'm going to call the number of people who agree... Those who don't agree... Since the decision was not found for the third time, it is Wednesday (July 9th 2014) at 14 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of draft and proposals. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00. Closing Time: 01.40 (x) 629 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (X) A non-English word was expressed in this chapter by the Hajip. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results.
