tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is İstanbul MP D. It belongs to Ali Torlak. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party for the 561/year anniversary of İstanbul's Fethi. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, we have reached the 561th anniversary of Istanbul's Fethhi ▪, one of the turning points in the history of the world as part of its political, social, and cultural results. One of the developments in the history scene is the conquest of Istanbul by the Turks, which has influenced many states and led to the determination of the ages. The conquest was the name of a crucial move that began centuries ago with Sultan Alparslan and Ertugrul Gazi, where the goal of growth rose to the top and the future centuries opened up. The conquest of Istanbul should not be seen as the conquest of a city alone. The conquest of Istanbul is an event that will find its true meaning when it is understood as the rise of a new civilization, a new era, a new world, and a new understanding of humanity. Istanbul's fethi is the day Sultan Fatih ▪ spreads the gloomy and dark clouds over mankind. Istanbul's Fethi is a historic moment in which the blessed story, which has been hidden in the hearts since Yasi, Malazzirt, Willow, to make the Turkish state a leading country, has reached its peak, and has emerged as a triumph of national goals and national patience. Istanbul's Fethhi has transformed the course of history into the center of culture, faith and civilization as a product of an undisputed belief in a highly disciplined and methodical work that has opened new horizons to the development of mankind. In this success, which Sultan Fatih reached despite his youth, we must not forget the determination and determination of the great Turkish nation that raised the Molla Güranis, the Ulubat Hasans, Akshemseddins, Aksemsdins, and the great Turkish nation that grew the Molla Güranis, who began the conquest of İstanbul, reaching the conquest of İstanbul. After the conquest, Istanbul was also the cradle of a culture of reconciliation where people of different ethnic and religious beliefs lived together in peace and peace. In the depths of history, there is a sense of justice, and the ideal of co-existence is a role model for the present. It is undoubtedly the power, dignity and justice of the Turkish nation that still provides this superior management and sharing environment, which is referred to as Ottoman peace. Dear lawmakers are the dates of the memories of nations. People who forget their history lose their identity one day, just like they're meant to do today. So how is the great Turkish nation today, opening up a new era for mankind? What are the problems our nation faces today, our land? How can our nation overcome its predicaments? These are the most important questions that we need to look for on the 561th anniversary of the conquest. The efforts of European and Balkan states to expel the Ottomans from the Balkans have failed, while Turkish nations today are in danger of dividing in Anatolia. For centuries, we are faced with a shameful picture of those who have not been made by the enemy, being made today by political will. And at the point where we're here today, it's very far from historical beauty, unfortunately, meaning. The persistent and unstable population quickly distances Istanbul from becoming a cultural capital, the destruction of political will to natural and historical wealth and the growing issue of dignity. Our wish is that all of Istanbul's problems are over, that it regains its natural beauty with its national and spiritual values, which are becoming a symbol of peace, peace and development. With these thoughts and feelings, I humbly welcome the High Assembly to the mercy of the Lord God, to our conquest, especially Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Heromarash MP Durdu Özbolat, who wants to talk about the political and social problems of our citizens living abroad and the presidential election. Here you go, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding the political and social problems of our citizens living abroad and the presidential elections, and I hereby salute the High Assembly. Dear friends, the political, social and social problems of our citizens living abroad have not yet been fully resolved. Temporarily, partial and regional solutions, as they do not eliminate existing problems, create complex and new problems. Therefore, it is one of the most important duties of the Grand Assembly to address and address the problems facing our brothers and sisters abroad. More than 5 million of our citizens still live abroad in EU countries, 300,000 in North America, 200,000 in the Middle East, 150,000 in Australia. However, our immigrant citizens still have problems that need to be resolved by Turkey. Many problems have not been solved in Turkey, including dual citizenship, political representation rights, pension issues, the need for teaching, the need for teachers, the equality of opportunities in education, passport fees, foreign currency, citizenship rights, consulate services and partisanism, as well as the status of official representatives. Although there is more than 50 years of migration in Europe, our citizens still do not have equal rights. This is also unacceptable in terms of democracy in Europe. Unfortunately, in education, in working life, in public service, there are many areas of life that are discriminated against. Some bureaucratic barriers must be removed in the European Union countries. The family union is a constitutional right and should be removed from the Constitution, which violates the Constitution. In many countries of Europe, unemployment is increasing. This is because of unsupervised neoliberal economic policies. The fact that migrant workers are responsible for unemployment and economic crisis is a major distortion. Both the international community and the state of the Republic of Turkey need to fight more effectively with these views and attitudes. The government's policies for our citizens living abroad are highly incoherent, unresolved, non-resolved, exclusive, and publicist policies. It is seen as an institution to address problems and problems of migrant workers, the presidency of Turkish and Relative Community abroad. This institution, unfortunately, has never been more than the backyard of power. While Turkey has encouraged our immigrants to receive citizenship and actively participate in political life, Turkey has yet to solve the problem of political representation of our foreign citizens. Election and selection and the protection and development of the right to political representation are the most important legitimate issues for all democratic regimes. Only to be granted the right to choose or to be elected to a certain class, identity, group, and political representation will cripple democratic rule of law as well as to make parliamentary democracy controversial. Nearly 3 million of our citizens living abroad have joined the process as voters and the blue card holders have been denied that right. For this system to function fully, it must also open the way for our citizens living abroad to be elected. In the law proposal I've given you before, especially considering the fact that our citizens living abroad correspond to 5.3 per cent of the vote, only the representation of our citizens living abroad can be opened in Parliament. In addition, according to Article 95 of Law 298, the votes must be drafted in the presence of those present. Now, unfortunately, votes will be used abroad, will continue for four days, will be stored in rooms, then brought to Turkey by plane, by cargo. Dear friends, even 100 meters away in a country where the votes are controversial, bringing votes from 3,000 to 4,000 kilometers away will cause a debate. Therefore, it is imperative that the votes be counted in the countries where they are used, and this problem must be resolved at once. Otherwise, especially in Europe, Turkey will enter a very controversial process regardless of its outcome. I salute you all with the hope of a world where all our citizens living abroad can be solved.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from Antalya MP Sadık Badak, who asked for a lecture on the Armenian Genocide and Mass Crimes conference at the University of Moncton in Canada. Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it has been learned that on 1 October 2014, a conference will be held at the University of Moncton in Canada in 1915 with the title of the Armenian Genocide and Mass Crimes. I would like to express as the president of the Canadian Friendship Group, that a unilateral conference would not contribute to peace, but rather encourage radical racism. For seven hundred years, the radical racism virus from the 1870s infected some of the Armenians who lived as brothers in Anatolia with their neighbors, shared agriculture, trade, trade, and trade has led them to behavior that attacked them. The record of the Bansnak and Hnçak parties, based on racist ideology, clearly shows their aim to reach their goals through terrorism by destroying their neighbors with the imagination of Armenia the Great. The first Prime Minister of today's Republic of Armenia, Kozaznüni, who was the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia, is responsible for the catastrophes that happened to the Armenians in the Congress of the Taşnak Party in 1923, and is directly responsible for the Tasnaq Party. The Armenian komitas, founded by radical, racist, segregating ideology, carried out around 40 riots and terrors for 25 years between 1890 and 1915. With the support of the Russian army during the war, the Armenians were included in local and foreign sources, where they slaughtered more than 500,000 Muslims in various ways, one of their methods, cyanide, and killed nearly 8,000 Muslims. On April 24, 1915, the Ottoman State shut down the racist parties of Taşnak and Hinçak and Armenian Komitas to protect the attacked Turks, Kurds, Arabs, Süryans, and civilian Armenian Armenian Armenians, and put the Immigration and Housing Law into practice. However, the attacks of radical Armenians have not changed yet, and the massacres of Nahçivan, Karabağ and Hodja in the 1990s have also been sadly followed. It is clearly known that one of the reasons why 10 million people died was radical racism, which triggered World War II, when more than 40 million people died. Unfortunately, racism and discrimination, which have been seen to develop in the Allied countries recently, is not compatible with Western values and Turkish and Islamic values. The modern world must also fight in common with the radical racism that plagues society, as it struggles with consumption, malaria, cancer, and plague. I would like to ask that friends Canadian officials and my Canadian political colleagues, who have been fighting racist separatists for many years, who we know do not share radical racial values, and to lead scientists into the study of the archives of all states and entities related to what happened in Anatolia in the 1910s. In this regard, 95 million documents have been submitted to the ministry. In 2013, 530 researchers from abroad took advantage of our archives. Scientists must work freely, speak freely, compare their findings. But not only Armenian historians, but historians of other societies are under pressure by censorship and threat of punishment by extremist Armenians and those who have developed politics over them. The conferences with unilateral claims will do nothing but increase the pollution of information, and in turn, joint studies based on documents will contribute more to the solution. Finally, as our Prime Minister pointed out in his letter published on April 23, 2014, I would like to once again point out that what happened during the First World War was a common pain, but that 1915 events could not be accepted as a subject of political conflict against Turkey, that the work of Turkish, Armenian and international historians would play an important role in clarifying events and that we depend on our call. With these thoughts, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you. Mr. Altay, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressmans, last Saturday's fire in our village of Lower Seyricek, Sinop Province, Boyabat County, burned 31 houses to the ground. Given that there are already 42 households in the village, our citizens have faced a tragic, dire view. Our only consolation is that there is no loss of life. That's what caused the fire to go out during the day. I don't see a Minister of the Government at the General Assembly, but at the point of this fire, I would like to invite our government to step in and contribute to the immediate healing of the wounds. On this occasion, I wish our villagers, Boyabat County, Lower Seyricek, a great deal of well-being. Again, Mr. President, on the anniversary of the death of Nazim Hikmet Ran....the poet of homeland and freedom....I want to remember him with mercy and gratitude and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit to our country along with a Parliamentary delegation, along with Austrian Federal Council President Michael Lampel, was approved by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers' decision 26 May 2014 and by the decision 71. The visit of the delegation to our country will be presented to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion for a retraction of the law proposal, and I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We withdraw our original Law Proposal 2/1135 on 10/01/2013. We'll pay our respects. 27/05/2014 Mehmet Ali Okur Fikri Il Azize Sibel Gönul Muzafer First Baller Smart Aygün Ilyas Candy The bid at the National, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission has been returned. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On June 6, 2012, BDP President Aydın Kaya, who was arrested on January 19, 2012, was arrested and sent to Mus E-type Closed Prison, died of a heart attack. In order to determine the negligence of the prison administration and to clarify the doubts about the death of Aydın Kaya in the death of his prison-type E-type Prison, we would like to ask that Parliament be opened in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] [[Diyarbakır]] As a result of long-standing destruction, denial and political genocide operations, more than 8,000 political prisoners and convicts, elected by public-elected lawmakers, are still struggling to live in inhuman conditions in prisons. Prisons, where living conditions are too heavy and inadequate, serve above their bed capacity, while prisoners and prisoners face inhuman treatment under such inadequate conditions. The number of prisoners increased by 200 per cent in the last decade is far above the capacity of current prisons. Given the abuse and torture of 28 prisoners who were murdered in "returning to life" operations 11 years ago and the recent abuse and torture of juvenile prisoners in Posanti Prison, the state will see no progress from yesterday to today in its understanding of justice and so on in its view of human rights. According to Justice Department data, the number of prisoners killed in 1997 increased from 123 to 268 in 2011. Thus, it shows that the state has increased human rights violations against prisoners and prisoners that it is responsible for keeping alive, and has disregarded human life. The lack of living conditions in prison, and most importantly, the lack of health care, are facing a new human rights violation every day of the prisoners and prisoners who are under state guarantee of life rights. In particular, the medical staff and the shortages of medical assistance bring with it a problem that will cost human life. It is a fact that a record increase in the number of prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons has brought health problems with it. Health problems and deaths of sick prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons are due to insufficient health care in prisons. There are still 248 seriously ill prisoners in prisons, while 42 of them are struggling to live on the border of death. "There is no harm if the Forensic Medical Association stays in prison for patients who are on death row and who are not being treated in prison." His report leaves prisoners and prisoners almost to die. BDP Much Liz (Erentepe) Belde President Aydın Kaya, who was arrested on 19/01/2012, died of a heart attack in prison on June 6, 2012. On 29/03/2012, Kaya was referred to the neurology service after being examined by a doctor who had been ill and applied for a doctor on duty. In the past few days, Kaya wanted to go back to the doctor on 31/05/2012 and was sent back to prison with medical examinations, such as tests, X-rays, and MRI. Although the results of the examination were said to be delivered to the patient on June 4, 2012, the results did not arrive until June 6th, when the patient died. According to the prison camera footage, Kaya was found ill at around 5:00 p.m., and the ward door was opened at 5:09 a.m., and the patient was found in need of immediate attention. Even though he had a staff at the prison, there was no emergency intervention in Kaya because he wasn't a doctor. Two medical officers of the prison, who were not even authorized to give injections, were removed from the ward at 5:13 p.m., carrying a simple blanket on a stretcher. As of 5:20 p.m., Kaya was transferred to the hospital at 5:26 p.m., but died in the hospital. The lack of a doctor, the lack of a doctor, the lack of authority to give injections, and the inadequacy of a prison infirmary in such emergencies has cost a person his life. When the first intervention took place, Kaya, who had the chance to live, was sentenced to death by a chain of omissions. More than 900 prisoners and prisoners still under arrest in Mush E-type Closed Prison are facing the inadequacies and negligence that Aydın Kaya has been subjected to, without the necessary modern health conditions. In the death of Aydın Kaya, who died on June 6, 2012, at Mush E-type Prison Prison, where he was arrested, a research commission must be established within the Turkish Grand National Assembly to determine the negligence of the prison administration and to shed light on suspicion of his death. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Following the Law on Protection of Family 4320, the first law to protect women from violence in 1998, regulations were made in 2007, and the Council of Europe Convention on Violence Against Women came into effect on 11 May 2011, which was first approved by Turkey by 18 countries, including Turkey. Despite regulations made with Law 4320, the Law on Protection of Family 6284 and Avoiding Violence Against Women, which was published in the Official Gazette 20/03/2012 on the grounds that violence against women is still unstoppable and inadequate. Although legal rights have been seen in our country as progressing on paper in women's rights, statistics published show that women are behind in the world's ranking on the use of their rights. According to the World Economic Forum's 2010 report, Turkey has been shown to be the last of the European countries, and the overall ranking of 134 countries is 126. "We have now strengthened the authority of the law enforcement force, which is immediately called an intervention, and we are able to protect it immediately without a court order," Minister Fatma Şahin said on May 24, 2012 at a symposium in Kütahya on the fight against domestic violence. That's what he said. Despite this explanation, violence against the woman continues to be reported in the newspapers day after day. For example, the woman who divorced her husband because of the violence she was subjected to in Buca district of Izmir, then met with her husband again because she did not want her relatives to intervene and her child to grow up without a father, but continued to see violence by her husband. The woman who returned to her father's home due to severe dissension in small talk and lived with her husband for four months had previously been threatened by her husband, but she was released from the police station and later stabbed 17 times in front of her wife in front of her child on April 23rd. Again, in a press report, I deal in drugs by the woman who wants to get rid of her wife in Konya. The fact that she reported herself, prefers prison time, that violence against women continues, and that women are helpless, that she does not receive sufficient protection support. It's possible to replicate its samples. Although laws have been declared to prevent violence against women and police and judges have been trained in this (Mr. Minister Fatma Şahin on 24/01/2012 in the 55th Union of the Grand National Assembly of TBM (6/48) in response to the main Question Proposition (6/48) response, "We have been taught how to deal with the armed forces, about 40,000 police officers, and how to deal with a woman who has been violently subjected to violence, and how to do so." That's what he said.) We propose and propose that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th, TBM Instrument 104, and 105, in order to eliminate violence against women, prevent this question of vital importance, for reasons and why it is still under way. [[İzmir]] 2) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 15) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[Balıkesir]] 17) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 18) S. Sanmar Ayata [[Ankara]] [[Mersin]] 20) Birgül Ayman Güler [[İzmir]] 21) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 26) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] 30) Aydın Agha Ayadın [[İstanbul]] 31) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Let's go.]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 35) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] 36) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 37) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] 41) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] 42) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and We propose the establishment and establishment of a parliamentary research commission in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate fraud and unhealthy food production and the impact of such products on human health, to be conscious of producers and consumers. [[Mersin]] 2) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Inconceived]] [[Let's go.]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 9) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Amasya]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] In recent years, agriculture has reached bankruptcy as a result of distorted policies. The manufacturer cannot produce with low price clamps in exchange for high input costs, while consumers are concerned about the credibility of food they consume. With this location, Turkey is almost ranked first among other countries, where cheating and health - harmful products can be sold freely. In the developed countries, however, food safety is very strict, and every precaution is taken to protect the health of consumers. Recent reports of increased danger in meat and meat products, eggs, honey and bread, which are among the people's main consumers, have become widely available in the visual media. The remains of pesticides in red meat; single-nailed meat, skin, cartilage, kidneys, rakida methyl alcohol; tomatoes, strawberries, spinach, zucchini, peppers and cucumbers; benzoic, sorbic acid in margarine; herbal oils in yogurt, cheese, butter; sugar syrups, glucose, water and starch in honey; information on flour to show the appearance of bran bread; dye and coloring, tanning, sweeteners, tanning, sorubic acid, sorbic acid in yogurt, cheese, butter; information amongst the sugar syrups, sugar syrups, water, water, and starches. As secrets about rogue and health - harmful companies are revealed, the public's health is exposed with all its nudity. However, the explanations should be known as just the tip of the iceberg. It is also known that a large number of small and uneducated businesses exist in the agriculture sector, providing basic inputs to the food industry and this sector, and that a significant amount of these businesses are "under the stairs" or off the books. Food, Agriculture and Petting Ministry's food control and controls are conducted by control officers in 81 districts and authorized district managers. According to the ministry's data, only 4,635 controllers serve throughout Turkey as of 2011. The lack of qualified personnel in the labs is significant. It is clear that even though it is mandatory for such experts as food engineers to be given sufficient jobs in public, this is not the case. For reasons explained, we propose and propose the establishment and establishment of Parliamental research commissions under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ensure the proper information and awareness of producers and consumers and to investigate the effects of fraud/medical food production and the human health effects of such products. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Equality of Women's Opportunities, the Public Economics Initiative and the European Union's Compliance Commissions have one membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. Lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for these commissions are on Monday (June 9, 2014) at 18 p.m. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0010par0303	Mr. President, if no one's applying, can we apply again?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0009par0304	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Annual Meeting of the International Defence and Security Committee, which will be held in Zagreb, Croatia on June 4th or 6th 2014, is presented under the 9th amendment of the General Assembly on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and under the 9th Article of the Law. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation consisting of members of the Commission, headed by Publicity, Development, and Tourism Commission President Oya Eronat is submitted to the draft of the General Assembly of Croatia on the basis of a formal visit to Croatia to respond to the meeting of Croatian Parliament Chairman Goran Beus Richembergh. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday/6/2014 (now), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 13 December 2013, Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan (4589 rows no. lu) The parliamentary inquiry motion, which was submitted to the Grand National Assembly to investigate all events that caused the loss of a period, including reports submitted to the MGK on July 5, 1993, was proposed to be read in the same joint presentations in Tuesday's 3/6/2014 merger, which included decisions made on that day, as well as other proposals waiting to be submitted to the General Assembly's information. The People's Democratic Party has asked for the group's proposal to speak in favour of the Ezıtiye Birtane, Kars MP. Here you go, Mr. Onete.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0011par0337	Thank you, Mr. President. Before we move on to our group proposal, I'm celebrating again the June 1st election of Pain and Norschin, which has resulted in the success of our people, where I'm celebrating our people in the reformed elections that have been repeated in other places and without causing any problems. Mr. President, I have made a commitment, along with a report to the MGK, dated 5 July 1993, to our motion to investigate all events that have taken place since then that have led to the loss of an era. I salute you all. It's June 3rd, the day we all burn our hearts out over and over again. On 3 June 1994, Kurdish businessman War Buldan and close friends Adnan Yıldırım and Hadji Karay were brutally murdered near Düzce Yülca. They ask God's mercy for the people who have lost their lives in all unsolved murders, and I bow before the memory of them all. Again, I would like to repeat our condolences to my dear friend and Deputy Director Pervin Buldan, and to all the families who have lost this perpetrator from certain murders. Yes, we see this period as what we call the period of Tansu Ciller-Mehmet Agar, a period that aims at the mass base of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). This period, as we all know, is also called the concept of ▪93. As noted in our research proposal, tactical operations against NGOs, legal associations and unions have been the most important part of the overall strategy. The reformation of political control operations and techniques that have also been tested on labour unions and radical left organisations has been implemented mainly in Kurdistan. These practices are a period for Kurdish freedom struggles. The Sheikh Sait Rebellion is a concept of massacre against Kurds living in Turkey, especially in Kurdistan, who have been given a movement of freedom in the mountains from the killings of Kokogiri, Zilan, the strict assimilation policies of the 80s. As the media movement led by the TRT (TRT) led by the media from Anadolu (Anadolu) programme launched a psychological war, the burning of villages, the evacuations of villages, executions in police stations, the Kurds who were taken from their homes at night and thrown into the wells of acid. The soldier is one of the rare examples where a people face persecution, assimilation, slaughter, destruction, and destruction of the Kurds, which has reached the hands of the congerilla gangs, confiscation of the villagers' food, the slaughter of peasants. The Digor massacre of 14 August 1993 is part of the strategy imposed by official officials in Cizre and Şırnak in 1992. This is the period when Turkey -- Turkey -- was subjected to inhumane methods to destroy Kurds, to digest them, to make them agree to be Turks. On the one hand, there was a war against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) with chemical weapons, anti-war methods, and on the other hand, an act of cutting off all the vessels that would keep the Kurdish problem alive by destroying the PKK's base. Kurdistan's people would either be slaughtered or displaced into other geographys. The period, which constitutes one of the dirtiest pages in the history of the state of Turkey as unsolved murders, also includes the evacuation of thousands of villages, the massacre of children, the massacre of Kurdish businessmen. With state terrorism Kurdistan geography, a massacre was intended to spread to the metropolitan areas, all the cities where Kurds lived, as well as to Kurdish politicians, soldiers. It is part of the concept of the destruction of the late Turkut Ozal, the assassination of Farref Bitlis, and many other unsolved murders that aim to make peace with the Kurds. After a coup in the Turkish Grand National Assembly tried to destroy Kurdish political movement, Kurdish MPs were taken into custody and kept in prison for years. Until 1999, this concept has entered a new era after Mr. Abdullah Ocalan was brought to Turkey with an international conspiracy. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this process I'm talking about is our brother, the Kurds are first-class citizens of this country. However, as the Kurdish problem continues today with all its cremation, the AKP has been another version of the 1993 concept. The AKP, embodimenting its most important step towards the Kurdish issue, can now be spoken in Kurdish. The AKP blocked democratic political channels and put over 10,000 Kurdish politicians in prison, while Kurdish MPs spent years in prison. In the 1993 concept, covert massacres are conducted today in the uniform of the state. The 2006 Diyarbakir massacre, which the prime minister had clearly issued, continues with 34 young Roboskili, who were bombed by Turkish fighter planes, an act of destruction against all democratic forces in Turkey, along with students, children and Kurds who were slaughtered in the middle of the street. The AKP has added new pages to Turkey's dark pages in its day, as it has left the killings of 93 in darkness. The Kurds' peace demands have been countered by war. On April 14, 2009, he aims to drown the Kurdish political movement completely. However, a unilateral process has been launched with Mr. Abdullah Ocalan's efforts to end blood and tears and open democratic political channels. Although the government failed to carry out its mandate for the solution process, a will to continue the process was generally formed on the Kurdish side. As a result, the discovery of all the unsolved murders from the 93 concepts to the present day, and the discovery of all the unsolved killings that were appointed and selected at that time, is an emergency for the safety of the democratic solution process, in order to ensure the discovery of the Internal Affairs, Security, intelligence bureaucracy and paralegal internal warfare organisation and open the way for trial. As a society now full of suffering, I express once again that we cannot tolerate these events, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0012par0350	Thank you. People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against group proposal from Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Niğde MP.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0013par0353	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the HDP Group's proposal to investigate all of these events, which included decisions made that day, including the report submitted to the National Security Council on July 5, 1993, which resulted in the loss of an era. Dear friends, as it is known, the National Security Council began in 1933 with the establishment of the Office of the High Defense Assembly. After the coup of September 12th, the MGK became a structure that focused on the domestic threat, fought against its own people, fought with its people, and acted psychologically against its people. As everyone well knows, the MGK was an institution above the national will that has been perceived as a state above the state in the past. The MGK has sometimes been cited as an operational legislative body, sometimes as a guardianship authority above the Council of Ministers, which instructs parliament. Dear friends, there have been developments following MGK's total and uninterrupted war resolution against Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in 1993 as a basis for the HDP Group's motion that we are meeting today. We're all aware of complaints about the MGK's past structure and decisions. This antidemocratic and non-national will structure of the MGK, which has always been complained about, has been completely changed during the EC PARTY period. In the 1st period of the EC PARTY rule, a revolutionary change has been made in the structure and functioning of the MGK with Law No. 30 July 2003 and 4963. In the past, the general secretary, the admiral, was allowed to be appointed from civilians. Today, the 4th civilian Secretary General serves. The Secretary-General's office has been narrowed down to a large task force that has placed a superior and commanding position within all state institutions. While their duties were counted, ▪ They worked jointly with the ministries and related institutions and organisations, monitoring and controlling the practices, and co-operating regulatory, guiding, and co-ordinating. The duties of the Secretary General have been reduced to only 2 articles in the former law, which have been reduced to the duties of the National Security Council and to do the duties provided by the law. The National Security Council's decision to follow has been taken from the Secretary General and given to a Deputy Prime Minister's pledge. All information and documents of the ministries and other public institutions have been removed from the General Secretaryship at request. In a similar way, the MGK Secretary General has been removed from the implementation of the Prime Ministerial Crisis Management Centre, which gives extraordinary powers not only in times of disaster and security crisis, but also in time. Members of parliament, as reflected in the public opinion, the concept of the domestic threat in the National Security Policy Document is history. The understanding that sees his own citizen as a threat is completely abandoned. In addition, the head of the Office of Public Relations and the Office of Public Affairs in a position of psychological action to its own people has been suspended from the Ministry of Information, Research and Evaluation, which is the centre of tag activity following decisions. Again, the Prime Minister's Council for Following and Co-ordination and similar mechanisms reacting to antidemocratic structure have been eliminated during our reign. We can safely say that the MGK and the MGK Secretary General's Office, thanks to the AK PARTI authorities, has been put into the framework where we see their example in the democratic world, where it should be. Dear friends, as AK PARTI, we have faced custody pressures to the end, we have not allowed political stability to break down, we have not burdened our citizens, we have not supported tension, we have broken down the guardianship structure, which is the product of the coup era in Turkey, we have become increasingly democratic and a higher standard of life. The MGK must also assess changes in the object of the complaint. The HDP Group's proposal is considered a black page in our history. It's a time when democratic mechanisms are blocked. The political institution has been disabled and has lost its influence on the system. AS AK PARTY, we value and value the discovery of truths. It would be more appropriate to consider the deaths mentioned in the motion as unsolved. As it is known, the Commission for Research and Solution Process Commissions have been established, and these incidents and deaths have been investigated there. As we all know, we have the Human Rights Commission in our Parliament, which is a permanent and speciality commission. It is clear that if the Human Rights Commission is applied for these events, the matter will be dealt with in a very detailed manner. In addition to the report submitted to the 5 July 1993 MGK, the HDP Group's decision made on that day, it says I do not approve the proposal of the Constitution for the opening of Parliament research on the grounds of Articles 104 and 105 of the Articles of the Constitution for the investigation of all events carried out after this date and caused the loss of an era.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0014par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0015par0366	Mr. President, the orator gave false information, and the state is currently not doing psychological pressure or assault on the citizen. He killed children in the Zodiac Square, on the Trip...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0016par0367	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0015par0368	...12 people lost their eyes and eight others were injured...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0017par0369	Mr. Tanal, you know we don't have that in the Charter, we talk off the agenda and...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0015par0370	But it gives false information...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0017par0371	Now it's time for the People's Democratic Party group's proposal to speak in favour of the Tunceli MP Hüseyin Aygün. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0018par0374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I was going to give a speech on why the HDP proposal should be partially criticised and why it should be confronted with countererilla, but our deputy on behalf of the AKP has suggested that we postpone this conversation to another date. Speaking on behalf of the AKP, the MP, who spoke on behalf of the government, said that there were two commissions in parliament called the Commission for Research and Solutions of Impacts, that they had already looked into these dark periods, that he had written reports, and that the darkness of the 1990s had actually been illuminated. The Human Rights Commission has already carried out its work within parliament, and if you apply there, it will act to investigate this dark period. Of course, in the meantime, since the structure of the MGK has changed, as the civilian Secretary General has come, as the Council of Ministers has been following the decisions made, MGK has not been involved in psychological warfare, it has given false, deceptive information to millions of citizens who are actually watching us here. The fact is that the psychological warfare of the MGK (MGK) is not a complete lie. Many of the MGK's decisions against Alevi are filled with decisions against the leftists against the unionists over the last 12 years. In one of the latest MGK meetings, the MGK has invented an organization called the parallel structure, and has given signs of witch hunting to some members of the state. The reason why a life sentence has been filed against soldiers who stopped illegal MIT trucks sent to the prosecutor and to finance the Syrian war in Adana is the MGK decision. I'll give you a more specific example: A month ago, in the Navy Command, the names of the officers who had been printed in the newspapers, whose family was leftist, because his father was a union revolutionary, his own staff called Alevi, his father was a unionist. The Joint Chiefs have announced that an investigation has been launched by commenting on these officers. That's what happened a month ago. I'll get closer, come back to yesterday. You know, if we don't go back 12 years, it might be difficult to count the violations of AKP's long history. Yesterday, General Necdet, one of the most honored MPs in this House, announced that he would file a special complaint against Parliament and our nation regarding the mining massacre in Manisa, which you failed to finish praising, one of the most important suspects of the MGK. Free Special and his friends announced a 150-page legal report. When he expressed some private memories of the soldiers who were lying inside, the general said that he had immediately made a statement in the afternoon that he had taken legal action, as he had literally denied them. What's civil about him now? When you don't press charges against the AKP or speak against the government, does the civilian threaten the opposition and declare to lawmakers that he will use the legal ways of the four MPs, when the great General Necdet declares special, you have a democratic and far-off MGK? If you're a bit of a Democrat, I mean it, General Special, you'll be the first to condemn him. Because, General Special deed is a government executive, like the head of the cadastro, and we pay their wages. He's doing all of his crazes today, his courage, his opposition lawmakers, and you're very happy about it. The custody is over, the country has been democratized, the MGK and the soldiers are under control. Now, the reports of the Commission for Research and Solutions of these attacks have been published, and I'll tell you a thing or two about his lie. Guys, I got these reports, I checked them out. I wasn't a member of the Commission for Human Rights, and as a member of the Commission of Human Rights, I wondered what tests were done there, what was proposed, what methods for solving these dark times are predicting for the future, and I looked at our own work on the commission as a light. In these reports of these periods, I could not see anything, except abstract assessments and a series of views that worked for the AKP. So, for example, the 2 volumes of Impacts Research Commission report was published, thanks to the Commission, sent it to lawmakers. But what did we get? What did we do after that? So, I've just summarized, and I've told you what MGK and General Private are doing, and I've given you examples of how custody over politics and Parliament goes on with the hands of General Special and his friends. The chips are going on, too. As for the Human Rights Commission, I'm a member, so I'll tell you a thing or two about it. In particular, if the AKP MP is applied there, the murders in the Izmit-Sappanca triangle, which is also part of the District of Aldındağ, can be lit up. Friends, on December 27, 2012, I had a meeting with Ayhan Çarkin. In Sincan, I looked at my notes. This is Ayhan Threshold, a member of the Contgerilla who served in the murder of the head of the population of Altındağ. This guy spent four and a half hours telling me about his murders. Three hours, 28 December 2012, I submitted the notes of the meeting to Ayhan Sefer Üstün as a three-page report on December 28, 2012 -- and the report ends as follows: either we call this man to the Assembly and listen to him -- this man is a triggerman, a dangerous man, a bad man, a bad man, and he throws all the sins on his back, the political institution, Parliament, the generals, everyone -- and we go and listen to him in prison. I made a suggestion that the Commission wouldn't even respond. Therefore, apply to the Human Rights Commission here. I'm guessing there's actually a dead end proposed by the AKP MP who also knows. Now, the first thing that comes to mind about the BDP's proposal is that, friends, I find that you are missing only in terms of a solution and the safety of the peace process. Those who were killed at that time were not just Kurdish businessmen, journalists, trade unionists, socialists, students, they were still killed, buried anywhere, in İstanbul, Edirne, Thrace. I think the persecution policies of that period affected everyone. In this regard, let's just investigate that period for the sake of the resolution and the peace process. I think it was necessary to express this proposal for Turkey's democratisation and to justify the motion in this way, because even though its pointy tip touched the Kurds -- I admit it, I know that as a person who lived there -- it destroyed a lot of opponents, leftist, anti-government, and a critic of the military regime. Some people's cars were blown up, some were thrown into acid wells, some buried in some unknown places, still looking for them -- their parents -- on Saturdays. So I think it would be more appropriate to write the reason in this way. And in the spirit of the motion, I saw something as if this counterilla was over after I read it. I believe that MIT was replaced by an institution called conttgerilla. If this were not so, the Parliament would not have authorized the operation abroad on March 17th. The MIT has now become an institution capable of asking a journalist to serve ten years in prison to identify its members. Again, the MIT has been able to gain access from all personal information to the property records, to the bank records, to get all the information. The new era's secret war organisation, the illegal operational force, I think it's MIT. The most damaged movement is the Peace and Democracy Party; we need to be honest with you, because you know that these TK operations were manipulated by members of the MIT, that they were throwing bombs at the buses, that we were special officials in Istanbul, that we were MIT agents, so we threw bombs, and we threw Molotoves. You know best that they wanted to evacuate. So, I think the illegal force, the secret war organization that killed the Hadji Karays, the Bulls, other innocent people, is under different forms today. In any case, if Ayhan had agreed to negotiate with the Commission for Human Rights, Ayhan would have told the House what he had told me in our meeting. And he said, in the presence of the Supreme Assembly, that the network that operates this organization called Kontgerilla has only changed shape, it's agreed with the government, they're working with the government now. He said on my question. I'm guessing what happened today in lice, what happened in Diyarbakir, what happened, what happened, was the work of this professional team from the 1990s. The AKP, of course, is very proud of this Ergenekon case. We have lit up historical darkness, we've flattened Turkey. I'll tell you one thing, it's also connected to your motion: General Veli Little, who was held responsible for the murders in this triangle of death, has never faced a single question about the murders in the Ergenekon case in Sapanca. He was sent to prison because he was completely against the AKP. He wasn't questioned about that period. I thank you all very much and pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0019par0386	Thank you. The People's Democratic Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Yilmaz Tunç, Bartın MP.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0020par0389	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the HDP group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Following the group proposal, HDP has been asked to take the motion to the General Assembly today for the investigation of the unsolved and responsible cases taken after that date, including the reported report submitted to the National Security Council on July 5, 1993. In our country, especially from the beginning of the 1990s to the 2000s, the year has passed as the peak of unsolved murders and terrorist incidents. Especially when we look at our recent history, 1993 is a year of unsolved murders. Before and after 1993, our intellectuals, our journalists, our scientists, in the wake of the unsolved murders, unfortunately, they lost their lives. Assassinations, neglects, deaths followed. During the next period, our country faced the event of Susurity, followed by the process leading to the February 28 postmodern coup, and a 30-year-old terror reality. The terror, the unknown, the lack of democracy, has been reflected in our economy, while the killings continue, while the vault of the treasure has continued to be emptied, the banks have been sunk, and the bill has been raised to our nation. The coalition parties, which run the country, have, on average, been transformed for two years, sharing power, and have not been able to cure terrorism or the unsolveds or democracy. Our country has lost blood both in democracy and in the economy. Here's our nation, who wanted to get rid of the dark picture of the '90s, made a decision in the early 2000s and opened the door to a new era. The most important weapon for those who want to create a climate of chaos and insecurity in society and to achieve their anti-democracy goals, the unsubs have ended with the power of the AK PARTI. In the last 12 years, we've seen unsolved killings in Turkey try to be enlightened, and gangs, mobs, dark centers, and nothing is allowed to be covered up. Turkey is going through a very important process, valued lawmakers. As a continuation of the decisive democratization steps from 2002, the process called the "response process" for a stronger, democratic, free and peaceful Turkey has been initiated. The final goal of the resolving process, which is the continuation of the National Union and Brotherhood Project, launched in 2009, is the complete end of terrorism. Through the solution process, our country's eastern and Southeast regions in particular have begun to see normalisation that they've been missing for decades. In these areas, you go to places you can't go, you go to places you can't go. A picnic is now held in areas that used to be closed for security reasons. Economics and tourism have been revived in the region, and the usual landscapes have begun to appear. The solution process is widely supported by social groups and is seen to have a positive expectation of the process in society. Basically, increasing public support is the most important guarantee of success in this process. Recently, we have been sad to see attempts to undermine the solution process. In this process, which has been going on for over a year and a half, has brought peace to the people of the region, especially in recent days, we see the terrorist organization's attempts to kidnap children, kidnap soldiers and public officials, intercept roads, burn public and private vehicles. This makes our citizens in the region nervous. The mothers whose children have been kidnapped have been acting in Diyarbakır for days. A political understanding that can't stand the fact that mothers act, that they don't even want to be heard is an example to the people in the region. Unfortunately, the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality administration wants to remove the kidnapped mothers from their place of action with various excuses, while politicians who have violent vandalism during the travel process remain silent in this regard, our nation is also watching with caution. It is no doubt important to shed light on the events mentioned in the research proposal -- which took place in 1993. In the past, research commissions have been established in Parliament. We all know that the dark events that have marked our country's last 30 years have been considered in the power of the AK PARTY. In this period, dozens of cases have been brought before the judiciary, including unsolved cases in the southeast, investigations and prosecutions related to these cases, the retrial of important prosecutions such as the Şemdinli case, the ongoing investigation into the perpetrators and ongoing cases, diggings, dozens of cases in the dark. However, the most important problem that lies ahead now is to listen to the cries of crying mothers in Diyarbakır as the solution process continues. The HDP group has proposed that a research commission be set up to find those responsible for the unsolved events. The truth behind these dark events in the past is now known to everyone. To investigate this fact, the Parliamentary Research Commission, which successfully concluded its mission and made an important source of its report, researched all the initiatives and processes that interfered with democracy in our country and created a very important report on measures that needed to be taken. The source that emerges is indeed a source that sheds light on our future. Again, the most important goal of unsolved murders is to disrupt social peace and create chaos in the country, setting the stage for terrorism and antidemocratic intervention. Finally, the Parliamentary Research Commission, established in Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate social peace routes and assess the solution process, is also aimed at this goal. This Commission will play a crucial role in investigating the background of unsolved events, as it did with the coup commission, in investigating activities aimed at disrupting social peace. The Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights Review has also filed a criminal complaint against the republic's prosecutors as a result of its investigation into some unsolved cases. Therefore, it is not possible to participate in criticism that these commissions are dysfunctional. In the same way and in the same case, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, saying I disagree with the HDP group's proposal because the commissions for the same purpose were established and they submitted their reports to the Assembly General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit01spe0021par0401	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0021par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday (June 3, 2014), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On February 14, 2014 and 3518, it has been suggested that the Parliamentary Council's research proposal for 3/6/2014 on Tuesday (now) will be read in the General Assembly, where its talks will be held in today's jointly, in an effort to determine the increasing debt and measures that should be taken by citizens and the problems caused by this. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0022par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, you've brought a new bag here, so I'd like to start with that, because there's some redevelopment here, so it's like a new fiscal pardon or something. Again, we have a bag waiting on our commission. But, by the way, what's the status of the citizen, the debts we've forgiven, the savings? We've said this before, we've done this sort of thing, we've done research, we've thought about it, we've taken precautions, but unfortunately, because you've distracted the Assembly's agenda with a number of vicious conflicts, with virtual agendas, it's always waiting, you're stuck, you bring it back when it's over. Why when it's stuck? Because the citizen is heavily affected by this economic progress, he is unable to pay his debts, and because his income is not increasing, he suffers. As a result, there's been a study every few years to address that problem here. Unfortunately, structural measures cannot be taken, so these problems continue continuously. My dear friends, in recent years, the citizen has been completely in debt, and I'm going to give you some digits. First of all, there's a study by Turkey's KAMU-SEN, and I'll give you some numbers, because our friends are constantly twisting what we say to draw pink paintings. When we look here, about 14 people are in debt every two minutes, unfortunately our citizens are not in very good health. Sure, a lot of things can be talked about here, but I'll give you the numbers first. Now, let's see where we've come from in ten years, where we've come from, where your ministers, where your speakers have come from, where we've been, and let's see where we've come from: here, we've got promissory checks and protest bonds, where they've been coming from before at the Central Bank, and now the Risk Center is collecting them. Dear friends, only 499 in 2002, now up to 321,000 in April 2014. The amount of the bond is even more severe, from 816 to 2.4 billion. We're looking at an unrequited amount of checks, only in the 700s, and suddenly it's over a thousand. Unfortunately, here, of course, the actual debt of the citizen is the negative-quality credit indicators that show the individual debt. We need to look at the citizens' individual credits, consumer credits and credit cards. The risk centre and the central bank have data from 2009 to 2009. And when we look back, we've seen 3.9 million people suffer in the last ten years. If you look at it monthly, there's a total of 133,000 a month, about 402 grand a month, and a total of people who can't pay the debt, and in the amount of 2013 last year, 1,28,000 people have not been able to pay the loan or credit card debt. So our citizen is in serious trouble. Since 2009, 3,1 million people have failed to pay their credit card debt. Of course, I've asked the ministers and the head of the BDK several times here, and I've asked the commission. These are the unrenewed ones, so most of the loans that normally seem to be alive are being renovated, as if they were paid off, and they're being reconstructed, and there seems to be nothing wrong with them. So the problem is much more serious than what's reflected in these numbers. On the other hand, we look at our farmers, and we see the same thing, and when we look at agricultural loans, it looks like this. Of course, in support of the Agricultural Law, which emerged here in 2006, 1 percent of the illegitimate domestic product must be separated as support, but unfortunately, in practice, only half of it is found. Last year's figure was 8.5 billion, with an estimated 17 billion in support expected. Sure, what's the farmer doing? He has to use 3-4 times that. Here's another problem: when the farmer can't pay off this loan, because he's mortgaged his land, his fields, we get the ownership of these fields, the farmer's field, and his agricultural machines. That's another problem. What we're saying here, of course, is that all of this is in debt, but it just doesn't solve the problem of getting a pardon for some of the premium payments, some of the delays. At the end of this debt crisis, the reason this debt crisis is happening in this form is because the citizens' income is not increasing. You've brought a lot of dressing measures here, so let's limit the payments, limit the credit card, put interest... it's not about that. Sir, we're short on savings, there's no increase. You say, "But where is the issue?" It's about raising a citizen's income first. How will the citizen pay his debts before his income increases? If the citizen is in need of everything, if he's in need of coal, supplies, help, it's not a place of pride. On the contrary, their income level needs to be increased. Now, there are social consequences. It's just that, unfortunately, it doesn't solve our problem, dear friends, to bring things to the point of forgiveness when they're financially trapped. It has social effects. While I was looking at the news about this, I saw some interesting news. He says that in the year 2014, 11 people went mad because they couldn't pay their debts or because they had a problem with their credit card. (In different provinces, not only in one place, Adana, İzmir, Iğsun -- I'm looking here now: 70-year-old businessman killed his wife and daughter because he couldn't pay their debts. Now it's not just the economic dimension of what we're talking about. Let's look into them. When I say, let's take precautions. It's not enough to pardon a citizen's only savings here, it's important to save the citizen from being unable to pay that debt. And for him, economically, structural measures need to be taken here. Unfortunately, now that he's coming again, some negotiations are going on, we're going to see a bag of the penal code for a few days. Well, there are people waiting on the other side. The bill on the deed Kadastro, which you're about to meet, should have been out by May 22nd. Now, while we're waiting for these structural measures, I'm afraid we're dealing with virtual agendas. So come... here we are, sir, as Mr. Prime Minister got up and banged the President of the Central Bank, saying we're going to lower the interest, they're not dropping the interest... somebody's a brakeman and a gas station, you're taking us back to the old place. So the Prime Minister says, "Sir, he's making fun of this nation, he's dropped half a point." I say, "Good morning." Isn't Mr. Babacan, the deputy prime minister's name Mr. Babacan, the Vice Prime Minister? So the interest policy is determined directly by what the Prime Minister says? Who identified those targets? Who identified the inflation targets? The government has determined it. So in the same way, when the Traveling Events took place, the Prime Minister said, "We've raised our profits 10 times as much as you have." At what time did the banks get these interest profits? Didn't he know about it, Mr. Prime Minister? I'll have to ask. The Prime Minister has been complaining for two weeks. So, how many tenders did the Treasury make before these two weeks arrived? What's the interest on these? Haven't we already passed the real interest on to those investors? For him, dear friends, we need to stop making fun of people about these matters and take real responsibility and take structural measures to resolve these economic and social problems. And in this framework, if you support this research proposal, we'll review the social effects of it together, and we'll solve these problems as soon as possible, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0023par0028	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked for a vote against the group's proposal, Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç, Isparta MP. Here you go, wise guy.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0024par0032	I don't know what he's gonna say. Is the citizen in very good condition...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0033	Mr. Günal, you'll have to be patient and listen.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0024par0034	That's why you didn't listen to me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, dear friends, it's true, when we look at consumer loans and credit card debt and compare the past to 2002, there are serious increases. Of course, it's important to say that in December 2002, we see that the rate of consumer loans following total consumer loans at 2 billion 325 million 910,000 is 2.42 percent. When we come to April 2014, we see that even though the volume of the loan has increased so much, the overall rate of consumer loans is 2.27 per cent. This is BDDK's own data. Of course, dear friends, it is important to point out that at the point of transition from industrial society to the community of information, there have also been significant changes in public consumption habits. People have been constantly demanding better and newer. With the ease of low interest and access to loans in recent years, there has been a rapid increase in debt rates. In fact, long-term growth in the economy, development and good progress also trigger consumption because our citizens' expectations that the economy will go well lead them to consumption rather than savings. Yes, when we look at the National Movement Party's motion, when we read the reason for the motion, they say it can't be prevented by legal regulations alone. True, it's not possible to solve this issue with just legal regulations, but limiting credit card use, reducing the number of installments -- you said right -- but what does it do?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0026par0039	Let's increase the income, the income.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0040	However, growth slows down the development here. Now, as we look at the report published by the Central Bank on this issue here, the report states that the pen credit cards have been the fastest to reduce the share of the household's obligations in recent years. The recent decline in the instalment process, which has led to increased individual credit card balance over the past five years, has been decisive in this development. So we need to see and accept that the measures that have been taken are particularly useful. But the bottom line is, you can't just solve the problem with these, our people's consumption habits have to change. There used to be a TV in the house, and now you're looking at a TV in almost every room. When I was a kid -- remember -- there were three cars on our street in Ankara, and now there are three cars in each house. So, cell phones here, you're constantly renovating the model. I mean, you guys aren't doing it, so since you're laughing, you're not using it, are you?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0027par0042	He had a cell phone in the 60s? So he had a cell phone in the '60s?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0043	But we all make the same mistake, not in need, but in completely different satisfactions, not in constant need, but here are the new models, new things, new things, we're constantly making these purchases. Normally...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0028par0044	So, Congressman, the guilty people? That's what I meant. No offense, so it's a guilty bunch now?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0045	If that's the way you see it, there's nothing I can do, but like I said, you never get to see the whole picture, you get to a certain point. You're already like this because you're inside that point in the focus.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0029par0046	You're looking good! You're looking good!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0047	The problem here is not just in the household, but when you look at the public and private sector and the household, you see that the basic problem is already concentrated at the point of absorption in Turkey. It's not just about people. But despite all that, Mr. Günal has given me some data, but I'd like to say a few words. Look, despite all of this, the GDP in Turkey is not even one third of the 65 per cent, with an GDP average of 21 per cent and a eurozone average. I'm not so sure about...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0030par0048	So, what time is our national income in the eurozone? Tell me what our income is per person.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0049	See, at this point, the Central Bank of Turkey has an explanation: its debt to the household is lower than its other G20 countries compared to the G20s, according to Gayrisafi domestic product and disposable income. Besides, there's no risk of interest and courtship. Why? In 2009, a number of sets were brought in front of the money debt of the household -- a total reduction of up to two thousand to a thousand in debt -- and you get these results.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0030par0050	So we shouldn't investigate?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0051	My dear friends, when you look at the level of debt between 2008 and 2013 -- you're always comparing it to BRICS countries -- you see that the rate of rate of change in these BRICS countries is 7.4% and 7.1% in Turkey. In China, you can see that this is 13.6%. Of course, in Indonesia, 3.2. The rate of change between 2008 and 2013...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0030par0052	Change of what?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0031par0053	Compare it to 2002.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0054	Mr. Günal, you understand you're a smart person, but I think something's wrong today.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0030par0055	You don't show the whole picture.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0056	In total obligations, the dwelling is...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0030par0057	Mr. President, are you hearing this?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0058	Look, my dear friends... it's a tease, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0032par0059	Mr. Orator, don't tease us and talk to people, people! Don't give us shit.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0060	Yes, you can see that the share of the dwelling in total obligations is up to 33 per cent of the mortgages, 4 per cent of the vehicle, 36.8% of what we call the need for consumers and other loans, and 22.7 per cent of the debt related to individual credit cards. The rate of credit cards in liabilities continues to decline dramatically with measures taken.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0033par0061	So the fall solves it?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0062	Also, once again, when we look at the research proposal, there is talk of tax and SEC debt and premiums in general health insurance. The overall health insurance premiums, insurance and tax debt will be restructured, with the coming bag offer aimed at reducing family debt.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0033par0063	So it's going down when it's erased!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0025par0064	Hopefully, starting tomorrow, we'll start talking about it on the commission. What I want to say here is that the government and the AK PARTY are in charge of matters, they are in charge of matters. When you're in power, you'll consider it for yourself. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0034par0068	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0034par0070	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0071	Mr. Orator has been taunting us both without insight and without being able to see a picture of him. I want a say in this.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0036par0072	He claimed to have lost his mind, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0034par0073	Here you go, Mr. Günal. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Scholar is telling the truth, because they're hiding all over the picture, we can only see as much as we can. He's telling the truth, so let's face it, we can't see the picture. The only picture we see is shoe boxes, 17, 25, but we can't get it open! Where do we see it? I mean, we don't see it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0037par0078	Don't score! Don't score!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0079	How are we supposed to see that? I mean, I don't understand. Now, if you don't bring him in and show him, if the council staff sees him, if they examine him, if I can't look inside the trial, how can I see the detail of the picture? I see what the cops are offering me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0038par0080	See, you don't have an answer, so you move things. Move it wherever you want. We have all the answers, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0081	Well, here I am, looking at the whole picture. Look, it says that the individual loans are all 338 billion, the part to be liquidated is 11.8 billion, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0039par0082	If a thief goes to the synagogue, he is a thief; and if a pilgrimage goes, he is a thief.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0038par0083	Mr. Günal, address your own group.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0084	It's the same number that the BDK is taking, I'm giving the Central Bank's 11.8 per cent of 338 billion credits, the credit rate of individual liquidation within total loans, 37.4 per cent, individual loans, or loans of citizens. I mean, if you don't think that's a problem. It's not the whole picture, it's just you, and I'm okay with it. Now, this picture... it's enough for us to think that if you make fun of the mind games you've just done, as I've just told you... when you've got the Central Bank's entirety in front of you, when you've got the ministers in front of you, the President of the Central Bank says something else, Mr. Babacan says, Mr. Lightning says something else, but Mr. Prime Minister is playing in the stands. Who's kidding? There's someone being made fun of, that's right, citizen. We're the ones who can't see the picture, right, because you're making fun of our minds.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0038par0085	But the citizen sees it, it's okay, you're the one who can't see it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0035par0086	Unfortunately, if anyone's making fun of the citizen here, it's the AKP government, and it's the Prime Minister. He says if you show us the picture, we'll see it all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0040par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0089	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0040par0090	Here you go, Mr. Ugly.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0091	The speaker accused my person of looking at a single point, of merely paying attention to one point, of not listening to other sides.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0040par0092	Did he mention your name, Mr. Ugly?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0093	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0040par0094	Here you go, Mr. Ugly. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0098	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0042par0099	Sir, I accused you of not following technology, but you promised not to pick on it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0100	Not that I don't follow technology, sir. Now, members of lawmakers, not just focus on one point, but ours, we focus on where we focus. So if you look at it this way, in the last 12 years, the last 12 years of AKP power -- the numbers were just given -- how much did the officer's debt increase, or rather, the credit card debt? Dozens of floors. Look, it's a point, we're focused. How many times did the farmer's debt go up? Dozens of floors. That's another point. How many times has the amount of bonds in 12 years increased in both numerals and proportions?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0043par0102	Subcontractor, subcontractor...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0103	Look, that's another point. And the citizen is in debt, he's in madness, he's committing suicide, and that's a point. Of course, you don't want that in your heart as a power, but that's the result, so you have to look at it like that. Now, of course, I just thanked Mr. Minister of Agriculture, and I'd like to put it to you that the farmer's drought has been disastrous, and his debt to the Agriculture Bank has been postponed. Look, isn't it beautiful? I thank him, but I also want to say that in our time, the farmer owed 550 trillion dollars, now he has 13.5 quadrillion, which is a point.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0043par0105	The farmer's sunk, the farmer.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0106	I'll leave that to your understanding and appreciation, Congressman; you don't listen, but you don't have a face to listen to.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0044par0107	There are deadbeats, deadbeats.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0041par0108	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0045par0110	Yes, thank you. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge in favor of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the citizen's debt. I salute you all. Dear congressman friends, there are perceptions of economics, there are facts, and there are lies. We can understand some facts from some numbers, but we can also create perceptions by showing other aspects of some numbers, and we can present these perceptions as if they were real. He does it all the time, AKP. Our dear brother, the AKP MP, just arrived here and said similar things. Now, look, Mr. Prime Minister comes up to the platforms and the TVs, and he says, "Where are you from?" That's where the national income rate of our debt started, and that's where it came from. When we received it, it was in the middle of the 70 percent, and today we came to the 30. We held up the Maastricht Criteria, paid off our debt to the IMF. Is that true? It's true in one dimension, but then there's the other side. For some reason, Mr. Prime Minister is not interested in the other side of the issue, AKP MPs are not interested in the other side of the issue, they are not saying anything about the total debt of the economy, they are just talking about public debt. Look, you're implementing an economic model, this economic model is giving us a current account deficit, and you have to create debt to finance the current transaction deficit, you have to borrow money; we have an economic model like this. Turkey's economy's debt-making dynamics are not diminishing because the current account deficit is increasing by the rate of national income. Think of it as a balloon, you squeeze the public on one side, but the other side of the balloon swells up. If the public doesn't owe money, who will? That's where the private sector and the household come in, especially the private sector. We never talk about it, we never talk about private sector debt, we never talk about the total debt of the economy.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0047par0122	We're not talking debt quality, we're not talking deadlines, we're not talking interest rates.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0123	Look, I'll give you a few numbers. When the AKP came to power in 2002, Turkey's foreign debt in the private sector was 43 billion dollars, so the total of the debt collected by all governments from 1923 to 2002 is $43 billion; the percentage of national income is 18 per cent. By the end of 2013, that figure was raised to $267 billion in AKP power. So, in the past decade, from the establishment of the Republic of Turkey to the AKP's power, at least five times the amount of debt that all governments have collected, the AKP government has collected as a real sector, as a private sector over the last decade. Now we'll see about that, we'll talk about that, not just about public debt. You can say, "What do we care about the private sector's debt?" Those who evaluate Turkey, those who fund Turkey, those who make economic assessments of Turkey, look at the total debt of the economy. You wake up one morning, just as in 2001, the private sector's debts are in debt to the state. You can do this, it can happen. So we'll see about the private sector debt. The real sector's exchange position deficit is a natural result, we never talk about it. Look, guys, we were caught with $20 billion in financial exchange positions for the 2001 crisis. That number is now $174 billion. When you came to power, it was $6.5 billion. The rate of national income has increased from 2.8 to 21 percent. I will never get involved in Turkey's need for financing. Now, another sign of debt, another sign of debt, the main subject of research: the debt of the household. Now, the speaker who came here, Mr. Bilgiç, he gave me some figures on his debt to the household, but you have to see this: where did we go from 2002 to 2013? Where did the consumer credit and credit card debt of the Turkish household come from? Now, look, state official figures.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0048par0128	There's one here, there's one here.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0129	You just gave it to me from the Central Bank, and I'm giving it to you from the Central Bank Stabilisation Report. Sir, when your reign began in 2002, you owed $6.6 billion in debt to the household of Turkey, consumer credit, credit card debt totalling 6.6 billion. What's the national income rate? 1.9-percenter 2.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0048par0130	Who says it's 6.6?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0131	Central Bank Financial Stability Report. How many now? How many now? Twelve years later, we've come to 2013, 318.1 billion mortgages and credit card loans to deposit banks. When you add the financing companies, that's 326 billion, 6 billion to 326 billion. How many floors? 48 floors. Dear friends, in the last 12 years, his debt to the household has increased 48 times. It rose from 1.9 per cent to 20.4 per cent in proportion to national income. Now, isn't that a problem? So you can't come here and explain this: either you've developed credit opportunities, interest rates have gone down, there's significant improvements in people's credit potential, people are consumed, they're happy as they consume. Yes, people are happy as they consume, but you have to put a production and income in return for this consumption; if your income doesn't grow, if your income doesn't grow, you can't go anywhere with consumption. Look, what about the disposable income rate of this household's debt? It has reached 47 percent, has increased by about 7 points in the last three years; in the last ten years, 30 points have increased in 12 years. So within the expendable income of the household, debt, stock debt, consumer credit and credit card debt increased by 30 points.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0049par0135	Where are you? Where are you? When you compare it to G20 countries, tell me where you stand as Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0136	Now, that's not a problem. You can say, you can say, here you can say, "This is the amount of debt in the European Union's household in countries, and that's the amount of debt we have." Friends, in those countries, the capacity to pay debt is 10 times more than Turkey's. Because it comes to $30,000 per person, $10,000 per person in your country. The capacity of your household to borrow is lower than the capacity of any country in the European Union to pay off debts. This is very important, you have to see this, this is one.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0049par0137	You're not looking at the Rakama, you're looking at the ratio. You're comparing the odds, Müslim.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0138	Second: You have closed this rate very quickly, you have reached 40 percent of the 2%, you have closed it very quickly, and it is no longer portable. As long as you don't increase your income, the debt of the household is not portable. I'm calling from here to the Prime Minister and the AKP MPs. Look, Mr. Prime Minister is making statements like an economic genius, so let's take the interest rates down hard. The university says the opposite of what even a first-class macro student learns, Mr. Prime Minister. With such vulnerability in these conditions, Turkey's economy needs $225 billion in external financing in the next year, and you can raise the interest at the same speed you want to bring it down. It means inviting the crisis to Turkey; it's very clear and clear. That's what all the foreign agency reports say, everyone who knows economics. If this economic model continues this way, Turkey will be severely troubled, especially the household. Our growth rates will surely drop in the next two years, with our growth rates at 3 percent. The money's changing direction, the conjunctive is changing, the money's going back to safe harbors. We're going to have a hard time financing this high on current transactions as the money moves back to safe ports, and our growth rates are going to drop. Here, our growth rates are going down when we think about it. Our income in the household will lower the debt capacity of the people of thought, and these figures, especially in the last decade, can bring with them serious problems in the coming period, as the level of debt of the household has come. Look, there's not a lot of serious improvements in overdue credits. Today, when we look at it, we have roughly 10 billion-dollar collection delayed, but because growth rates will be lower than the past period, or because Turkey's growth capacity will be lower in the coming term, I'm betting that the next few years, Turkey will have to agree to a growth between 0 and 3. This means increased unemployment in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0050par0142	He came from 2,44 to 2,27 in ten years. Don't do it, Moslem!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0046par0143	Because we know that every period that the economy grows below 5 per cent has increased unemployment in Turkey. Turkey is a young country, and every year 500,000, 600,000 people enter the pool of employment. Thus, the decline of economic growth will face the growing and multiplying of unemployment. This means serious weakness in the income of the household. There's a bomb in the economy. Surely, and surely, the debts of the household must be investigated, and a commission should be set up. The Republican People's Party is prepared to give it all its support. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0051par0146	Thank you. İlknur Denizli, İzmir MP who wants to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0150	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the rise of private debt to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I salute you all. Dear friends, it's not the absolute numbers that are essential to the evaluation of private debts, just as the interpretation of state debt, but the relative positions in the main parametric value, where those numbers are connected. It is not a weakness for the economy's fundamental logic that its debt increases with a smaller increase, while the gross domestic product representing Turkey's wealth is significantly increased. As a matter of fact, our country's illegal domestic product increased from $230 billion in 2002 to $820 billion today; its increase is 256%. These increases, of course, show itself in individual revenues, the number of national income per person. According to this, in 2002 it was $3,358, while today it was estimated to be $10,782 per person; the rate of increase is 221%. Turkey is experiencing a transformation process every 12 years. The EC PARTY governments have made major reforms in banking, health and social security ahead of the 2008-2009 crisis. Our budget deficit is down, our public debt stock is down. While banking and public finance are the areas that hit many countries in the crisis, our country has entered this crisis in a very solid way in both areas. For this reason, Turkey's economy has been one of the fastest countries affected by the crisis. Dear lawmakers are among the most important criteria in the public economy, where growth should also be a quality growth. Especially when there are short-term governments, when the political staff changes quickly, growth, the most important topic of the economy, is shaped by political approaches that are dominated by the short-term perspective. However, in the period of EC PARTY governments, the growth of Turkey is also necessary to see the fact that growth is hugger and inclusive. Turkey has growth and growth is also producing jobs, reducing poverty, correcting income distribution. As a matter of fact, in 2002, the proportion between the richest and the poorest was 9.5 times, while the latest data shows that it dropped to 8 floors. In parallel, the income distribution coefficient has dropped from 0.44 to 0.40.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0053par0155	Thirty-two dollar billionaires!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0054par0156	Don't say parallel, we can think of other things!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0157	This is a very rare painting in the world. The most important aspect of these drop figures is that growth supports financial and social sustainability, which is seen here as the success of growth. We see reflections of the extreme consumption trend that exists all over the world, as well as social and economic life in our country. Clearly, this is a process of change in general consumption habits. The EC PARTY governments are taking the necessary measures to ensure that this process is in good health. In October 2013, there were arrangements that took effect in December 2013 and in February 2014. As of today, the positive results of these arrangements have also been taken. As a result of these wide-ranging of consumer loans to a total share of the balance sheet from the 25 per cent limit to credit card applications, the rate of credit increases to 34.2 per cent in 2011 has now dropped to 21.5 per cent. In individual loans, 38.5 per cent in July 2011, our last destination is 15.7 per cent. The rate of increase in credit cards in December 2011 has risen to 30.9 per cent, while measures have now increased by 2%. In particular, there has been a decline in the credit card balance of around 9 billion compared to New Year's Eve. These numerical changes show that the arrangements are both proactive and accurate. Again, attempts have been made for neighboring arrangements to serve the same goal. The development of the investment climate, the reduction of the private sector's debt burden to the public, the restructuring of public interest in ensuring more effective use of finance and monetary policies. It is also intended to abandon the collection of all recipients, such as insurance premiums, pension cuts, institutional compensation, unemployment insurance premiums, social security premiums, the TEFE, the UFE rates, if they are paid on the basis of the amount to be calculated, such as delay fines and delay hikes for these recipients. We continue our work tirelessly to give the best results of these arrangements, which we think will bring a significant relief to the private sector on the burden of debt. Our belief is that, like the previous arrangements, this configuration will result from its expected outcome. However, I'd like to add one more thing. As Mr. Informant just said, our consumption habits are changing very quickly, changing really quickly.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0055par0163	We've become a consumer society. No production, no production!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0056par0164	If you open a mall in every neighborhood.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0165	As a country, we need to have a whole new perspective on saving. Yes, in our individual expenditures...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0057par0166	You've been in power for ten years, do it. Who's gonna do it?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0167	Who's gonna do it?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0168	We'll do it as Congress, we'll do it together, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0169	No, you'll do it. Very good!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0170	As a result, let the government do it. We're talking about a perception operation, which we're going to fix with you. We'll all go on the road to boosting our savings with our opposition deputies.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0171	But you're not listening.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0172	We're going to do a variety of studies on how to manipulate our people's spending.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0173	Sir, saving isn't enough, it's production, it's production.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0174	We all see that you have 1,500 lira income, you work together, you go... a family of four sitting in a restaurant, four phones sitting on the table with 1,500 lira each. Now, we need to take a precaution here on this...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0175	Let's just increase the income.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0176	...but not just with the government's precautions, but we must take steps together to increase savings.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0177	I mean, you drive around in fancy cars, you see a lot of phone calls!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0052par0178	I'm saying we all need to work this out together, and I'm paying all of you respect.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0059par0180	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0058par0181	There's a $1,000 tax on that 1,500-dollar phone, so don't take that tax.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0060par0182	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit02spe0059par0183	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0059par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting Tuesday (2003/06/2014), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. İstanbul MP Sedef Küçük and his friends have proposed a parliamentary research proposal (1363 rows) issued by Turkey's Grand National Assembly on 23/05/2014 for the purpose of determining the issues and measures that should be taken concerning the state of press freedom and the prevention of media in our country. lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations on Tuesday (03/06/2014), and to be held in the same dated combination of its talks. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0061par0017	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute your high council. Today is the 51st anniversary of the death of Turkey and Nazim Hikmet, the great poet of Turkish. I remember the great poet who said, "To live like a tree, as one and as one and as one, as a forest, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one, as one. Dear lawmakers, if you want to measure the quality of democracy in a country, you need to take the country's perspective on freedom of expression as a criteria. You can see the level of democracy in that country by looking at whether it is free of press, whether it is free to criticize power, whether people are able to use the rights of information enough. If there is pressure on the press in a country, if there is open or veiled censorship, if automotive is normalized or even mandatory, the press can't write the facts, so it's safe to say that democracy doesn't work in that country if the press can't do what is necessary to guard democracy. That's exactly what it's like in our country. It is a third-world democracy on the road that is said to be a democracy. The press will be free of its shackles. The sound of the owner of the land, which is said to have been released from its shackles, is a media voice, and unfortunately, it is becoming more and more dire in terms of freedom. Almost every press organization has a phone line. It is the decision of these government commissioners and those in charge of them that decide whether to write or draw, who and how much of the news will be found in the media. This brings not only the media world, but our entire democracy to have a diseased structure. This diseased structure is not only the oppression of power and the indigestion of democracy; it is not only the king of the press; it is the king of the press, but also the owners of the media. Some media members do not need a line of Alo Fatih (Alo) because they already have one (Alo Conqueror) in them. Apparently, there are pressmen who are unaware of the principle or of the journalist's right to gain knowledge, regardless of its own consequences, there are journalists who have to respect and obey the truth and the truth, regardless of its own consequences. There are journalists who ignore the principle. Unfortunately, this period will pass as a black period in the media. When the waters cool down and the real democracy starts to work one day, those who write or write should be written in this period will be remembered with shame. Penguin journalism will be the subject of unquestioned news, unquestioned questions, the media that carries wood to witch boilers, and in the future the study of pressure ethics in universities will be the subject. Some media members will be remembered for defending the honor of their pens despite any pressure, while others will be unaware that their pens have any honor. I owe it to those who honor your pen to thank you for this day and for our future. Because for a journalist, the real job is to be able to tell the truth in difficult times, to speak for the public in difficult times. Because freedom of the press is not only the freedom of the journalist to express himself, but also the freedom of public information, and that freedom is essential to democracy and legal states. That's why every member of the press who tells the public the truth plays an irreplaceable role in establishing democratic culture and protecting the state of law. That's why every member of the press who takes care of the integrity of his pen deserves a heartfelt thank-you. Dear lawmakers, the press will testify to its age, surely if it does not give an honest testimony, if it leaves lies to the future, history will not forgive it and will not forgive it. But history does not forgive those who are in a terrible blockade, for it is the real challenge, for it brings forth the unwanted. History does not forgive those who block the broadcast of parliamentary television, who censor the word of opposition leaders, who do journalism properly. You will only write what I want, you will not criticize me, you will punish me if you criticize me. History will not forgive the authorities who say, "No country in the world has ever forgiven, nor will it forgive Turkey. Already the power has been established in history as a government that prohibits Twitter, YouTube, and censors the press. This pressure is also found by every organization associated with freedoms around the world and press rights. Reports from organisations such as the Committee for Protection of Journalists, the International Federation of Journalists, Journalists Without Borders, the World Press Freedom Committee, Freedom House are always the latest in Turkey's freedom of the press. But every time these facts are expressed, this organization is the president of this organization. They can't attract us anyway. Nobody has the freedom of the press that we have. It's a pity that burying heads in the sand does not take Turkey's democracy one step further. The press in Turkey is free as much as you want; here, they write what they want. Say, journalists who have been fired and wanted to be fired are there, the authors in prison, the media bosses who have been made to cry on the phone, the astronomical tax fines that have been wrongfully cut. Dear MPs, no matter how you look at it, this is a dark period for all freedoms, especially freedom of the press, and I assure you, like every dark age, it will eventually end, and I assure you that future generations will not mark this dark age, this dark age, this blackening, this oppression in any way. By concealing the truth, by covering up the truth, you can mislead people for a time. Look, what did Lincoln say a hundred and fifty years ago? Some people you can always cheat on, but you can't always cheat on everyone. Mr. President, our issue is not just a matter of freedom of the press, it's a question of democracy, but it's about human rights, but it's about human rights for everyone; our issue is a talking, arguing Turkey; but it's a Turkey that speaks freely, without fear of being pressured, without being dragged on the streets by its young people. I remind all of you that a country free of press, without media, will eventually turn into a silent society that every oppressive regime desires, which will not be a blessing to anyone.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0062par0031	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0063par0035	Mr. President, lawmakers, freedom of the press, freedom of the press have been still being debated for over a hundred years, unfortunately. Despite the period of Sultan Abdulhamit, censorship, restraint, stalking, banning certain words, the use of certain concepts has been going on for over a hundred years, I'm afraid. There was never any free press activity in the Republic period, and because of that, Huseyin Cahid Yalçın was left in Turkey, right, religious, secular, secular, Kurd, Turk, Sunni, Shii, Alevi, and unfortunately the press member of all parts of the state got a slap on the left. Dear friends, of course, after coming this far, the heart would want us to get a proper distance today. But, you know, we went a little bit, we went up a creek, we went straight up, and we turned around and turned around and looked at a barley length. Like the story, where we come from today, like the plague, and at this point, it's not very pleasant. There's a media in Turkey right now that says one of them is talking about the other, and the other one's talking about the sky, and the other one's ruining the ground. According to universal media principles, such contradictions, such concentrations are impossible, such a thing is not possible. Because the first rule of journalism, the press, is first the right news, first the right news. After the good news, you're free to comment. You put what's right in the middle of what's right, you bring the news to the people in the most plain form, and then everyone comes out of the right news, from this simple reality, from this simple reality to their own. You can't interfere with how he pulls out that result, but first of all, that report you brought must be true. My father was a journalist, and he was a local journalist in Diyarbakır, Batman, for years. From childhood to today, I grew up in environments where those crew members used to string the letters one by one. Then I became part of the publishing life as a writer, in magazines, in newspapers, but dear friends, perhaps the country has never been more camped out. Now you're going to say at the point where you're going to say the freedom of press, at the same time it's the age of communication, nothing can be hidden, the freedom of the people can no longer be restricted. You're going to say, on the other hand, you're going to apply pressure on the Internet, you're going to ban YouTube, you're going to say that you're going to say that you're going to restrict the freedom of information from all sides, you're going to not going to answer the questions, and you're going to tear up the apocalypse when the press gets a story, you're going to say, you're going to say, you're going to say, you're going to say, you're going to be a traitor. The journalist's job is not to be a hero or a state defender. Again, in all the countries of the world, journalists don't have to reveal their news source, which is one of the most important principles of the press. You will sit down, the most important officials in the state, the Secretary of State, the Undersecretary of National Intelligence, his assistant, who is responsible for this, how to declare war on Syria, how to do classical contrastilla acts? You will argue this; somehow you will fall into the media, you will raise hell, this is treason. You will say, "This is treason." You will try to look for perpetrators. The journalist's job is not to be a prisoner. This news leaks. Likewise, you will speak on the phone, you will give instructions, and how will $1 billion be drank? You will do the accounts of this; on the other hand, when it falls into the media, you will unleash the apocalypse. It's one thing for this to be published in the media, it's another thing for you to have it leaked, given, taken out. The journalist is not the cosmic room of the state, the journalist is not the Undersecretary of National Intelligence, the journalist is not the Undersecretary of Public Security. The job of the journalist, the media member, is to put something that he found, reached, important to the public in front of the public. Dear friends, we can increase these examples, we've been given examples. Media bosses who couldn't fit into the sky, who didn't have hair on their noses, who made people cry on the phone. Let's say this is a different kind of divine justice, but wait a minute. So it wasn't enough to get off the street, so if you can stand up to the Prime Minister and stand up to the state officials and stand up to what you've done, what you've written, what you've done, what you've done, that's youth. That's a mosquito sedation for those who understand, and less a mehter team for those who don't. Dear friends, in Turkey these days, especially in Turkey, one of our most important problems in a period when the wheat harvest, barley harvest, is about to begin in some parts of the country is the electricity issue, the irrigation wells, and the punishments for electricity used in these wells. Cryin' and moaning', no one cares. Our Minister of Agriculture, Diyarbekir MP, a child of an agricultural land, grew up in wheat fields, blocked his ear, and the Apocalypse breaks out in Bismil, and the Apocalypse breaks out in Redtepe, Batman. What's with the apocalypse? It was privatized, electricity sold to a company, protocols were made over 65 per cent a year. Now, the company says: "Sir, there are 72 fugitives." The other says: "There are so many fugitives. Let's say that each month I'm going to give 100 lira to the state, I'm collecting 80, I can't collect 20. So, what am I supposed to do? Like Mad Dumrul, right now, the citizen is being fined 50, 60, 80, 120, 200 billion dollars. My own relatives... so these are imaginary, what, 200 billion electric tickets? A relative of mine was fined 160 billion fines, a fine of $160,000 with new money, and that's one person, not two. So, what's the punishment for? What's the judgment? He's got no wells in his field, no electricity because there's no wells, he gets water from the field next door, he gets 80 billion fines.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0064par0043	He's going to start paying for water, along with the Metropolitan Law.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0063par0044	So, why do you do it like this? I have 500 acres of wet land that this farmer from the Ministry of Agriculture has claimed on the basis of the premiums that this farmer has received. So, here's 150 billion fines. My dear friends, neither did Mad Dumrul. Well, you've got it all under control. Number one: no digging wells. Do you know how many wells are currently in the plains of Mardin, which you say are forbidden? Because the underground waters were coming up from 35 meters, 40 meters, down to 450 to 500 meters, down to the Midyat calculus. He's spending money on the well. The well is supposed to be banned, 3,000 wells, 3,000 wells. So why did you let him? I gave them to you. Why did you tie them to these no electricity is allowed? Well, if the citizen gives you 50 billion, 60 billion electric dollars a year, what will he eat for 100 acres of land? Well, I don't know about that. Well, why don't you finish the irrigation ducts? It's been 12 years since the Ataturk Dam held water, where are the channels? 86% of the GAP is finished, 15 per cent of the channels are finished. Bring me my channel, give me my water, you go home, I go home. Dear friends, if the government can't handle this... And the company is saying right now that it's just like the old Ottoman multhesis: I got it on a tender. I'll give you 100 trillion every month. I will take it from you, brother. Neither did Ali Paşa of Tepedelen, nor did they rebel against you. It's not the way it's going. Just so you know. My respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0065par0048	Mr. Orator, I have a decision from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers did something like this.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0063par0049	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0066par0050	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0067par0053	Mr. President, I've been promised a proposal from the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. The most important function of the press is to present news and information to the community in a straight and unbiased manner. It's always known that way, isn't it? But it's not like that in Turkey; it's the definition of the press in other countries, in the world. Press agencies can't report it, except for a few exceptions in Turkey. The press agencies are the talkers of power. Look at the newspaper that's been in favor of power for the past ten years, and it's not a big part of the newspaper; it's what we call the gas canner, so it's empty, there's nothing in it. The press is actually doing a public duty. Because of these features, press companies in democratic countries are the guarantee of democracy. There's a lot of pressure on the press that has never been seen in the history of the Republic. He's being threatened by tax fines, for example. The columnists are being laid off by instruction. There are over 100 journalists I know who have been fired or forced to resign after the travel events. For example, Can Dündar, Ali Kırca, Tuba Atav are among them. Nilgün Balcık, the representative of NTV (NTV) Ankara, is Çifdem Anad Ma'am, who is working on the same channel, who is doing the programme, and Derya Sazak, editor-in-chief of the daily Milliyet, is among the journalists who have to resign at the same time. Again, the government, which recently became one of its secondary channels, has reached a very controversial decision, and Korcan, the network's main news anchor, has put an end to its work. Again, White TV's News Coordinator Blunt was terminated from the Desert. These people do nothing but journalism, these people take their bread home with their hard work, but you leave their families, their families, to hunger. The government is showing a strong stick, and it says: "You will either be close to us or you will be out of work." With the unemployment rate of around 10% across Turkey, journalists exceed 20 per cent. Turkey has not lost first place to any country for two years on the list of arrested journalists. Today, he is still in prison in Turkey until 40. According to the Report of the Committee for Protection of Journalists, Turkey and China are monitoring Iran. The Prime Minister insists that the press is free. Mr. Prime Minister has no idea of the 2014 World Press Freedom Report, published by Journalists Without Borders. Actually, he knows, but he doesn't like it. According to the report, Turkey ranked 154th among 180 countries, behind even countries such as Afghanistan, Jordan and Iraq. If you look at what the report said about Turkey, you'll see how the press in Turkey is doing. There has been no development in press freedom in Turkey. Turkey is one of the largest journalist prisons. What press freedom are you talking about? You're talking about a journalist who's been down 56 rows in ten years, the press. I gave the Prime Minister a motion to ask, Mr. Bkent Arinc said that journalists who are under arrest have been tried in independent courts for crimes that have nothing to do with the profession of journalism. What are these crimes? I want to ask you now: Mustafa Balbay is not here today - was he a terrorist? What armed robbery did Tuncay Özkan commit? Nedim Sener, which police officer did Ahmet Şık fire on? So you make yourself laugh. But dictators are always like that, you know, in all countries. I'm a child of a family who escaped a dictatorship, a totalitarian regime. I started listening to what they told me when I was 55 years old. As a child, you do what is done in totalitarian regimes, in the former Yugoslavia. I mean, you're yelling so much, the Communists are like that, the socialists are like that. There's no bigger communist than you. You've been able to teach the communists, that Stalin.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0068par0057	If you had said "fascist," why did you come up with communistism?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0067par0058	So you're saying... he's touched the Zulfuyara, too? I think you've learned from the past. So I thought he wouldn't touch you. They teach you mercy. For the first time, Turkey has been removed from the list of countries in which the press is partially free, and has been placed on the list of countries in which the press is not free. Friends reminded Erdogan of the conversation between Erdogan and Erdogan, who recently infiltrated the Internet. Erdoğan is officially brushing Erdogan Demirören, the boss of the Milliyet-Vatan group on the phone because of the news of the official reports until he makes him cry. Erdogan Demirören, 70 years old, also cries shamelessly, without looking at his long line, his wealth, his past. From here, I say to him, "Oh, my God." Did I upset you, boss? Who's the boss? Prime Minister. Look at the relationship, the media boss on one side, the prime minister on the other; the media boss on the other, he's calling the prime minister the boss. So, are you the owner of this paper or the Prime Minister? Is there such a relationship, an economic relationship? Don't kid yourself, guys. You have prayed, you have disgraced the whole place. He answers, Mr. Prime Minister. Derya Sazak, former Editor of the daily Milliyet and reporter Namik Durukan, also tells the Prime Minister: "Adi, the scoundrel, the scoundrel! Prime Minister Erdogan is threatening not to let anyone in the country or the country on board. On this talk, Demirören had to terminate Derya Sazak, the publisher of Milliyet. For Namik Durukan, the Prime Minister says: "If he means well, let him tell us who told him." If he's one of us, we'll take care of him, and if he's one of the BDP, we'll take care of him. Erdogan Demirören tells Prime Minister Erdoğan who leaked the information until evening. He says, "How did I get into this business? For whom?" he starts crying. Look at this. What kind of media boss is that? How are you going to explain to your grandson tomorrow, how are you going to explain those phone calls, how are you going to explain them? When I look at your face at an invitation, I'm going to tell her that you're not ashamed. I'm really going to say it. The media bosses shouldn't get involved in the news, which is the truth, but the Prime Minister handles all the newspapers because the bosses have to answer to the Prime Minister. In the morning, Mr. Yalçın is meeting with the news managers of Akdoğan, delivering the headlines from that day, and they're doing the news. See, the owner's Voice was a dog brand, a record label, remember, the press you made that way. It's a sin. I mean, it's gotten worse than Pravda. Press in Turkey. The Prime Minister's Counsellor Yalçın Akdoğan is looking for NTV's Media Director Nermin Yuyeri, and he's giving a lot of brushes. Why did you do that? Whether Ferit Shahenk is the boss of Nermin Yurmin, or Prime Minister Erdogan, the relationship there should really be studied. I'm not going to enter the Conqueror line. I don't know what poor Sarah the Conqueror is doing now, God bless him. Today, Haberturk interrupted Mr. President's group speech two times. You know what he gave me? The Prime Minister's meeting in the Ankara Chamber of Commerce. Guys, look, this Prime Minister is not going to run this country, and he's not going to live forever. One day this country will remember you by your lack of character, by your invertebration.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0069par0065	Speak properly, use your words properly, that's the people's stand!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0067par0067	I say, yes, to the media bosses, it will be remembered for its invertebrations.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0070par0068	Mr Turkkan, Mr Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0071par0069	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0067par0070	You don't scream in there. You're a three-term congressman by being a sycophant, and you have no rights.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0070par0071	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0071par0072	There's no morality in you, you're a lackey. We're returning it to you. We're returning it to you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0073	Mr. President, take it back.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0073par0074	You saw the footage of the CNN reporter being taken into custody on the anniversary of the Travel Park protests, right? In today's group talk, he calls Watson the lackey of CNN. You didn't get tired of insulting journalists in Turkey...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0075	You're the CNN agent's lackey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0073par0076	...you've come, you've started reporters from international press organizations, acting like Ali's a heartbreaker. Look, I'll tell you something, the dictator's not going to end well. You gave this man this gas and turned him into a dictator. You're the one who's been sucking up to me, and you're the one who's been sucking up to me, and you're the one who's been sucking up to me, and you're the one who's been
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0078	Fuck you, CNN's lackey!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0073par0079	Yes, you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0074par0080	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0081	You're the lackey, you're the CNN agent's lackey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0073par0082	You've made this man a dictator by being a lackey, a suck-up. You've made the country hell for the press, shame on all of you!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0083	You're CNN reporter's lackey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0073par0084	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0086	Too bad, lackey!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0075par0087	Yes, it's Tülay Kaynarca who wants a word against the Republican People's Party proposal. Here you go, Mr. Boiler, please.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0072par0089	Mr. President, how can he call the Prime Minister a fool?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0076par0090	Mr. President, I have been promised against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First, I sincerely hope that the June 1st elections will be good for our citizens in 14 election districts and for our citizens in Turkey. And I sincerely hope that all of our current presidents will be able to sign important services and projects in their districts. In fact, I have to give an answer to the last speaker before we talk, and he's like, "I'm amazed, I'm really amazed, I'm really surprised, because when we're talking about media bosses, when we're talking about the media, he must have forgotten about the prime ministers in pajamas, in his pocket. Yeah, that's what we've been dealing with in this country.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0077par0093	He's the Minister of Parliament with the Prime Minister right now.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0078par0094	You're going to tell Mesut Yilmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0076par0095	Such media bosses, such a period of prime ministers.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0077par0096	He's the Minister of Parliament now.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0079par0097	Now you're taking revenge?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0080par0098	You will tell him to Mustafa Elitas, his boss, Mustafa Elitas. He is the boss, not me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0081par0099	So, valuable lawmakers, you have to consider each and every one of them when you're reviewing.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0082par0100	Let's tell Cemil Cicek.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0081par0101	You talked, we didn't pick on you, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0083par0102	He's the boss of Mustafa Elitas, not me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0081par0103	So, please, if we could learn to listen respectfully, we'd be happy.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0083par0104	I've seen how respectfully you listen.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0084par0105	He's got no respect.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0085par0106	It's their thing.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0083par0107	I've seen how much you listen with respect...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0084par0108	That's enough! Shut up!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0086par0109	Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party group proposal...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0087par0110	Well, a lady is talking, so at least respect the lady on the stand!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0088par0111	You'll tell the group, Mayor, as I speak...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0087par0112	You don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what you're saying in there.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0089par0113	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0090par0114	...it involves freedom of the press, freedom of the press.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0091par0115	Mr. President, warn him, he's been talking from his seat.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0089par0117	Mr. Turkkan... Are you going to teach me a mission? Please... are you teaching a mission here?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0092par0119	Guys, if you shut up, he'll talk.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0093par0120	Mr. President, warn Mr. Turkkan, where he's sitting...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0089par0121	Here's the transcripts, read them.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0094par0122	Here, promise me you won't pick on me. It's nothing.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0089par0123	Is this a mission, or are you going to teach it here?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0095par0124	Bravo, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0089par0125	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0096par0126	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party Group proposal includes freedom of the press. In detail, Sedef Hanım stated on what grounds she was offered the proposal. First, I'd like to point out a few things about the press. The press is responsible for presenting news, news, and objective information within the framework of interest, principle and values; and the press performs and performs an important public service in the framework where I try to point and limit its frame above. So what this means is that the press is the guarantee of democracy, which is also why it needs to be free, so it needs to maintain its neutrality, so it needs to be trusted, it needs to be trusted. We care about that very much, and I'm particularly careful to underline the trust. I can also say that no journalists were arrested today for their failure to do their job, since the Justice and Development Party has brought in many regulations that provide legal infrastructure in this regard. I'd like to give you a few examples of this right away: in Turkey, many journalists have helped our brothers to take advantage of it by bringing a five-year delay to the prisoners for expressing their opinions through press and publication. Now they've all been evacuated again, and those who've been in prison for propaganda have been able to take advantage of it in the same way. Turkey has implemented historical reforms, led by the EC PARTY government, as propaganda, as well as at the point of democratisation in the last ten years, and that has gone a long way. Freedom of media and expression is also an integral element of Turkey's membership in the European Union. And we'll also consider the contrary, of course, and we'll also care about the contrary, because if there's a study and a lack, the party that's still going to fix it is the Justice and Development Party. But I believe there are many different pictures of freedom of the press in our country. For example: In Germany, didn't our television be taken off TRT cable because it showed Hamburg events? Nobody talks about it, why do you think they shut up? Then, about travel events -- I'm a journalist, I have a yellow press card, and I've worked on this job for more than 20 years to get a press card -- eight hours of live coverage against a country, the whole world -- there's no such propaganda -- there's probably no other television samples in the world. Have we ever seen the opposition say anything about this in Turkey? I'm afraid not. If only they could see that, if only they could see the difference between other countries and our country. Turkey is no longer the former Turkey. Turkey has also taken important steps in terms of democratisation, and the press, of course, has taken its share of the process. Another issue is that almost all opposition has repeatedly expressed the expression that 44 journalists are in prison in Turkey. So, you're looking at forensic figures, 19 out of 44 people? It's done. Six of them are still on trial, and the result is unclear. One of them's not in the names, there's no record, there's no presence. Well, you're looking back at 18 convicted and tried, convicted. So, what are the felons? The deputy has just stated, armed assault, possession of dangerous substances, murder of police officers, bombings, robbing banks, becoming a member of the DHKPC and embarrassing crimes. You can increase the number of those who are convicted. Well, why don't they see it? Why do they insist on projecting freedoms against Turkey when they know they exist? Could this have something to do with the patriotism of being against Turkey, the opposition? I don't think so. I asked the people who played three monkeys in the face of this fact, of course, and the people who know the answer to that question, and the people who know the answer to that question, as they always do, in the polls, as they did on March 30th. On the other hand, Turkey also mentioned the social media barrier, which has just been mentioned. Twitter has been criticised. It has been said that Twitter is the enemy of freedom. Now there's a double standard: when we criticize Twitter, we become enemies of freedom, and in other countries, there's a court decision to criticize Twitter, and when they see court decisions, there's law there. Here's another double standard. I'll tell you the other: Now, when this country's Prime Minister is insulted by the press, and our esteemed President is insulted by the press, they are naturally referred to as this pressure when they apply for the right to answer and legal compensation, but in other countries, what are they holding on to? There's democracy there, there's law there. Here's a standard, double standard. And the Internet, in fact, is about this, the topic of Internet censorship has been done a lot on this platform, and it's been said a lot. I call it the secure Internet. Because I'm pointing out that we're on our way to start a secure Internet business, to protect his family, to protect his children, to protect some harmful porn, to protect some violent places. He was also called the suspension. By whom? By the same mentality again. The button is in your hand, and you press it, and it's all over, and the noise is gone, it's all gone, it's all gone. How many are using the secure Internet? 2 million in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0097par0137	Ms. Tülay, how many subscribers are there?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0096par0138	I mean, what do our people want? Safe Internet. What's his angle? Censorship. What's right is the way our people see it, what our people say. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a lot to say about this. Of course, freedom of the press is indispensable to our democracy, there are responsibilities to all of us, but our agenda for today's Parliament is the Law of Tapu Kadastro No. 591. Therefore, and with thought, I express my opinion against the group's proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit03spe0098par0142	I'm going to submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes, and there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions, and I'm going to call him. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0098par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on the Republican People's Party Group was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Tuesday (2003/06/2014), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the number of Law Bill 592, which has been distributed, the agenda will be taken to the fourth order of "The Bill of Laws and Other Affairs From Commissions" and again to the ranking of 591, 90, 554, 163, 10, 244 and 335 rows in this section, and the order of other tasks will be considered according to that order, and the order of other tasks will be taken to the order of 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 10. The talks on Tuesday (June 24th 2014) of Parliamentary Research Commission Reports 381 and 489, which are part of the agenda's "Special Affairs on the Special Agenda," which agreed to hold talks on Thursday (January 29/05/2014); Besides weekdays, 06, 07 and 08 June 2014 Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 14 p.m. Meeting at 00 and discussing the work involved in these mergers in "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions"; Until Tuesday (June 3, 2014), June 3, 2014, when verbal questions were not discussed and the talks of Bill 591 were completed, Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 04th 2014), until the meeting of the Charter No. 90th, the talks were completed. Until the meeting of Thursday, June 5, 2014, until the meeting of the 163th Bill of Laws, Until the meeting of Friday (June 06th 2014), until the meeting of the 10th Amendment, Until the meeting of Saturday (June 07th 2014) of the 244th legislature, until the completion of the talks of the law bill, Until the meeting of Sunday (June 08th, 2014), until the meeting of the 335th Bill of Laws, It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; To continue his studies, In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Charter of 592, it is considered the basic law, and its sections in the accompanying form; It's recommended. 592 Orders of Turkish Penal Code to Change Some Laws [[1/918]] Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0099par0034	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. Since our party group has not been able to vote on the Council of Ministers, we are taking the following draft and proposals that we have brought to the agenda of the General Assembly under the 19th Article of the Interior Charter, and today, hopefully, we intend to pass this bill until the end of its meeting. The Turkish Penal Code 592 rows, and the Law Bill for Making Changes in Some Laws, are expected to take it into the 4th place of our agenda in less than 48 hours and meet as the main law and complete the talks in four chapters, which will be completed within the working schedule of Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and next Sunday. We also receive eight international agreements from the 5th to the 10th place on the agenda. These are the important international contracts, which our President and Parliament Speaker would like to bring up. We also propose to include Research Commission Reports 381 and 489, which we should discuss on Thursday (June 24, 2014), among the Parliament's Special Agenda Affairs. Of course, our hours are 24 a.m. 24 when the calendar is not finished by 00. To work after 00, to be included in the working days on Friday, Saturday, and Sundays. He hopes to spend a good day of work, a good week of work, in harmony with his opposition, in harmony with his power, a beautiful week, and I give you all a warm welcome, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0100par0042	Thank you. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0101par0045	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Justice and Development Party's group proposal. When you said the Justice and Development Party's group proposal, you may have come up with a suggestion about Turkey's fundamental problems, which may be expected, but there is no such thing. When you say, "How do we change the day when the Justice and Development Party proposes a group?" That's the first thing we've thought about, and you've been doing this since I've known it, and you're doing the same thing today. Sometimes you do it every week, sometimes you do it every day, but you can't decide what to talk about, what to bring up. Now, why did you bring this change of agenda today? As you all know, we had a disaster, a murder in Soma. Yes, in the warm days of Soma, a proposal of my law was discussed here. With your votes, the opposition parties and the AKP Group's votes, it was agreed that the proposal for this law would be raised. So I thought, "These guys are really well-intentioned, they want to remove the subcontractor system, slavery, labor theft in the mines in Turkey." And I thought a week later -- because it was Thursday -- we brought it here on Tuesday -- as a group proposal -- about the adoption of the law. In fact, to bring this up -- again, again, as it is understood in Congress -- was something that had to be done on the Council of Counsellors, but we brought it as a group proposal because the fellow who joined the Council for Justice and Development refused to accept it. What was the group proposal? It was a one-point law proposal that opposed subcontractors in the mines to employ workers. Why did we bring this? Because on January 10th, after the New Year's mining accident in Kozlu, in 2013, your Labour Minister said that it was murder to employ subcontractors in the mines. Yeah, he said that on January 10th, January 29th, I proposed this law. In 2013, I proposed that law, and I submitted a parliamentary research motion. In my speech in the parliamentary research motion, I was saying: "You are coming here, God forbid. You say, God forbid. You exploit all people's religious feelings, you create a perception for them, but you don't bring them any offers, you don't take precautions. Three months from now, we'll forget that in five months. I said we'd have huge mining accidents in Turkey, and we had this accident in Soma. I call it a murder. If that proposal had been discussed at that time, if my research proposal had been discussed at that time, perhaps our brothers who died in Soma would be alive today, but you did not accept it. You didn't agree to be brought up on the agenda, but while you were in the House, it was passed by the opposition's votes, and it was put before the agenda. You had two options when you came to the top of the agenda: one was that you wouldn't put the commission in place; the other was that you would taste it or push it back with a group of suggestions, but you did the third, you didn't run the House. You're saying that Turkey has big problems. Parliament has to work, it has to work on Saturday, it has to work on Sunday. There's us, there's Saturday, there's Sunday, there's Sunday, there's Sunday, but you're a Soma. You're on vacation at 00. That's not the right thing to do. Either you don't cheat on people, or when you take this stand, we're against subcontractor work. You won't say that. We stand on this stand, and we bring a better law, we remove subcontractor work. You don't say, we bring a law that will work for equal wages. You say that. You're bringing in a law proposal for the contractor to do all the real work in Turkey, and you've brought in commissions. And when that bill gets here, your real face will be revealed. Yes, the third thing today: you're doing one of the other two things I count, you're doing 590 rows with the group's proposal -- you're dropping my Law Proposal, you're not even taking it into consideration, you're ignoring it. The 5, 6 international agreements that you care about are important to the Republic of Turkey, but for our friends who died in the mines, I think the removal of subcontractorial labor was far more important to prevent the next mining accidents. Every time you come here, you talk about the will of the people. Perhaps the will of the people will vote for you in the elections, but I think our brothers and their families who died in this mine will do a great deal of soul accounting on you in the future. Soma hasn't been seen. So, what did we do last week? We were discussing the reports. One of the most important reports was the IT report, and since you've been on vacation again -- there was a commission report that everyone called the Internet Commission, which we worked for about three months -- we couldn't discuss this commission report here. Thousands of IT teachers have problems. You've provided a runt with the FATIH Project, but when you look at it, when you look at it, when you go and look at it, you'll see that there's no trace of the FATIH Project in the schools. I'm thinking you've made billions of dollars of money in a row again, but if this report had been discussed, we'd have talked about it, too. One of last week's major events was the withdrawal of a proposal made by the AKP Group from a university in Gebze. During the election, AKP MPs and we promised Gebze. Gebze is a district of 600,000 inhabitants. You said there should be a college here and we should. We came to the parliament, we made our college offer, and the AKP was rejected by a vote including the Kobuki MPs. They said, "We will bring it." But on Thursday's agenda, they withdrew it, they couldn't withdraw it because it was postponed. Now, they're asking a friend about this in the area, and he says, "Aydar Akar doesn't follow the Assembly, and he doesn't know what it is." He made such a statement. I wonder which council my friend is in, I'm really curious. I confused the universities, but he must have confused the Parliaments, he probably didn't realize he was in the House of the Republic of Turkey. Again, one of the biggest problems in the world is the privatisation of Deep Harbor, friends. The lawmakers in Kopeeli say, "The workers are lying on their sides in the port of the deep. The workers are not lying on their sides in the port of the deep. The workers are not lying on their sides, my friends. The workers are not lying on their sides in the port of Deep. In fact, this friend of mine said that he made some very good statements: "Politicians before us have rented out certain parts of Deep Harbor. I will say that my friend, who made this statement, has no real knowledge of the world. Why not? If Deep Harbor looks at who it was rented and how it was given to in recent years, it will see that a media group is given two thirds of the Deep Harbor, two thirds of the port, at $0.80 a square metre, and another small company for $1.30 a square meter. And it's very clear which politicians market them. Another problem is about the ammonia tank that was built in the Gulf district of Kopeli. Look, there's a 300 cubic metres of ammonia in there right now. In the August 17, 1999 earthquake, the Gulf area was evacuated just because there was going to be a leak from ammonia tanks, and there were no rescue efforts; hundreds of our people died for 300 cubic metres of ammonia tanks. At the moment, 37,500 cubic metres of ammonia tanks are being installed. The AKP MPs in the region also say: "The EED report has been taken." Yes, the CED report has been received, but I have two separate articles given by the Alexandrian Governor in three months: One can't. One can't. Three months later, the other will be. When he says no, he says it's too close to the settlements, 50 meters to the E-5 land road, 300 meters to the highway. We say that the formation of such a tank will cause a disaster, not a Soma, but thousands of Soma. In the smallest leaks, in the smallest explosions, we will witness them, but my friends make fun of them, they say: "We have done everything in the Bigville area." As the city that gives the most taxes to Turkey today, he does not get a share of the central budget as much as a Silver House, and his problems are growing every day. You left no land to sell, now you're selling the seas. Deeply privatizing the Port, you make a 450,000 - square - square - square - meter filling in the sea. There will be 5 million cubic metres of fillings, 322,000 trucks and the waste will be moved. 12,000 trucks will enter the area where a thousand trucks enter a day, 2,000 trucks. There's no landline connection in the area, no railroad connection. Yes, friends, I'm calling on the AKP MPs from Alexandria to take care of their problems. I really want them to study it, not to go and make statements just for populism, but to actually take care of him here. Yes, they can take care of the cities they came from, but he's an important city, the industrial capital of Turkey, and I want to thank you all for that.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0102par0060	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0103par0062	The congressman didn't give me a name, but the statement he made must have been made to my side.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0102par0063	What did he say, what did he say, Mr. Aygun?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0103par0064	Deep down, the words of the Port... invited us on the mission. He's lying there. I used the expression.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0104par0065	Mr. Smarty, I didn't give you your name so the workers wouldn't become enemies.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0102par0066	Here you go, Mr. Ayday. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0105par0071	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. In terms of the privatisation of the Port of Deeply, according to the statements of our MP Haydar Akar. I am the one who comes and lies down for our workers there. But, of course, I didn't use that expression that way. This is what we did: you know, on weekends, we work in our province for four days. Last morning, Saturday morning, we had a breakfast meeting with some of the press, and we do it once a week. I answered the questions your friends asked. They said, "What do you think of this Deep Harbor?" People are reacting there, other lawmakers are supporting it. We said that as a state manager, no business has been able to run it, so show me one example. There isn't one. The best was TUPRASH today, a TUPRASH I've been in for thirty years, but the state is not a good operator. There's a saying in the community called the state's property the sea, the one that doesn't eat it, the one that doesn't eat it. So as a manager, it's the private sector, which is the nation's own people. I said, "Why are you avoiding giving this to the private sector?" And today, it's the only port in our port zone, where there's 42 other ports that can't be run while they're all running randomly in these ports. Yes, when we remove the executives there, they go to the administrative court, where they continue to serve, and because we live in such a legal state, things don't work out there. What I'm saying is that when you look at the website, the comments there, yes, most of them are negative, but all the positive ones are coming back to me. A lawyer friend of mine called me from Alexander's today said that Alexander's Harbor was the same way, and come, I'll show you the coffees in Alexander's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...coffee number one, they're showing it in the shape of coffee number two. I came out here to express this fact, but we don't call it real hard work, but for those who exploit labor, I'm afraid this privatisation is essential.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0106par0077	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0105par0078	I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0107par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0106par0081	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0107par0082	He expressed that the work was exploited, that they were not of those who did the real work, and that they were not of those who exploited the labor. I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0106par0084	Here you are, Mr. Akar. And I promise you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0107par0088	Yes, it's a fact that in your twelve years of power, you've done nothing, sold all the industrial activities, corporations, factories in the history of the 80-year-old republic. This may be your political way of working, your way of looking at politics, your way of looking at the economy, but if you accuse people of coming and going to bed. I think that when we see you sleeping in the back rows, only when we see you laying hands down here, our fellow workers have the same right to blame us. Now, Mr. Zeki - I say, Mr. Zeki, I didn't tell you your name just now - the workers are doing the necessary work at Deep Harbor. Deep Harbor is also a pilot's port, which means it's setting up the stock market there, so let's just say it's organizing the port stock market. It's very important to him. If there is no Deep Harbor or if the port passes through the government to another private sector, to the portiers in the monopoly position there, the activities there would be much more problematic. We call it whether or not the state should run or not. Let him not do it, nor let him do it, but let him do it in Tokat, and let him do it in Bayburt. Why are you here? Why are you here? Why do people come in and out of their homes? Because you don't build a facility in your district, in your city, even if it's your capital. There is a white collar in the house, and there is a blue collar in the house, and there is a port in the house, and there is a side industry in the house of Ableeli, and you come for it. When did they arrive? He came with the government's SECAH. He came with the PETKIM. He came with the IGSAS. You also said: "We have closed the gate. Is it bad?" You said, "Who's calling?" You said. Today we import $1 billion of newspaper paper. You're also shouting "Cari" open, aren't you? Today the state says we import $1 billion because it's withdrawn from newspaper production, paper production, and I give all of you love and respect.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0108par0095	Thank you. Ramadan Can is a member of the Party for Justice and Development, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0109par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before the group entered our proposal, the draft law, which changed the Law on Business Law and Social Security Law, was referred to parliament, and the commission began to work. With this bill, the sub-employee and sub-contractor arrangement, occupational health and security, severance pay, the day-to-day work of workers under the ground is reduced from eight hours to six hours, in total, from 48 hours a week to 36 hours a day, which reduces the debt of citizens from abroad, and therefore, the Parliament has puts a serious burden on those who have died in the Soma accident, the condition of their families, the removal of their poverty, the benefit of the unemployment Fund, the reduction of pension age in mining, and the restructuring of their tax and RSK debts, and the decision of the community that will be made to a serious response, and we will be able to make an effort in the Parliament in the process. Mr. President, we would like to recommend that, with our group's recommendation, the Criminal Code No. 592 and the Charter Making Changes in Some Laws be taken to the fourth place on the agenda in 48 hours. Again, we recommend that deed 591 rows and the Kadastro Agency Law be taken to the third place on the agenda. In our group proposal, we propose that international contracts, numbering 90, 554, 163, 10, 244, 335, be brought to the top of the agenda in 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. In addition, we recommend the creation of Law Bill 592 in a total of four chapters and the meeting under a fundamental law consisting of 104 articles, and again, we plan to meet with sexual abuse, sexual harassment, sexual assault, drug trafficking, quality theft, amendment in the Law of Criminals, administrative reference, administrative reference, the Constitutional Court's rulings on the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Constitution and the Law on Political Parties 2820. We're recommending that the General Assembly work until the weekend, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, hopefully, when the talks of the laws set on the agenda are completed. In the acceptance of our proposal, I salute you all again with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0110par0107	Thank you. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of the Justice and Development Party, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0111par0111	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have been promised to speak against the Justice and Development Party group proposal and to explain the views of the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. We're again dealing with an AKP classic that happens at the beginning of each week. The parliamentary agenda is being redacted. Again, without the opinion of other political party groups on this issue, the AKP seems to have imposed a new agenda on parliament's agenda again. I am the majority, I do what I want, I bring what I want, I raise what I want. We're being asked to meet and discuss the amendment to the Law on the Agency and its duties. The opposition's contribution to the General Assembly in this area is of no value to the AKP. The goal is to pass the law quickly. No matter what its content, right or wrong, it doesn't matter to the AKP. Why? Sir, he was in a hurry. As of May 22nd, the deed was in trouble. Well, the AKP is responsible for this delay. If the AKP is running this country, the AKP is setting the agenda of the Parliamentary General Assembly, so the AKP is responsible for the delay. He wants to cover it up with another flaw by doing another rude thing to the opposition in the General Assembly. Dear friends, the budget union, the budget balance? What about budget discipline? How quickly have you forgotten all the big words you've been saying in the Public Financial Management and Control Act, which you've brought and made lawful? Where's the Minister of Finance, where's the Minister of Economy, where's your Treasury bureaucrats? What's the matter, the sea's gone? You need new funds, new return capitals to spend for political purposes? This is actually a U-turn, a retreat. Have you had enough arguments for this? No matter what the opposition's warnings are, did you consider it appropriate to bring it up as a fire snatcher? Friday, Saturday, Sunday. You say, you think you're dead working. Days and hours aren't enough, and you're putting up an agenda for the weekend. I'd like to remind you that last Thursday's meeting wasn't enough, and that's why the General Assembly isn't working. You stole from the nation's time, and stole from the time of the Assembly, because you had not made the number of decisions, or the number of meetings, or the number of decisions that were sufficient. It's backstage, it's empty, it's empty, it's empty today. So you prefer sitting outside to working for people, working for the General Assembly. You really want to make a quick living? The way this works, folks, we're tired of telling you what we're talking about, but you're still stubborn. The rapid legislation is about setting the agenda, as well as providing harmony and reconciliation to advance the opposition in negotiating legislation and proposals in the General Assembly, and to ensure that they contribute. Don't make any effort in this area, after the egg comes to the door, well, I'm in a hurry. Say, sir, bring it, change the agenda. Dear AKP Group, I wonder when you'll give up the agenda of the Parliamentary agenda, often changing agendas to catch the opposition unprepared, and covering up the organisation and planning in the General Assembly's work by ordering the General Assembly to do so. As the National Movement Party, we don't complain about working 24 hours a day, but I'd like to remind you once again that these studies are more involved, more pluralist, more democratic, more controversial than enough to provide time and debate. Besides, you're doing one more very rude thing, valuable lawmakers to the opposition. Why can't there be a debate in this House in accordance with the Parliament's terms, that's why it's hidden in your rudeness. The opposition's most important control tool, as you all know, is a question mechanism, and on Tuesdays, only an hour of questions and answers can be done. You're canceling, dear AKP MPs. This is my constitutional and Civil Code right as opposition. Without an opinion or consent from the opposition, sir, I've removed the question-answer. Why? You have a majority of fingers. Hands up, another right of opposition. Here's the respect for the national will you understand, I'm afraid that's it. We've told the Speaker several times, in antidemocratic practices, the General Assembly wants to do so. You can't say that, because Mr. Cicek, you're not only the president of the ruling majority, you're also the president of the opposition. Look, from the very beginning, if you had been able to display the upright stance for the survival of the legislature's honor, dignity, pluralism, democracy, today 17, 25 December, the commission to investigate the theft and corruption issues did not give or report. You wouldn't have said, "Do I have a rifle?" These words, Mr. President, are an expression of weakness against a power that is now out of control. You didn't say the groups knew what to do in the collapse of the Civil Charter and Constitutional Compromise Commissions. You came forward as a warrior, and you eliminated these commissions just because the AKP wanted them. Mr. Cicek, this House is made up of power and opposition, and you are obliged to uphold the law of all of us. You're not ineffective, you're not supposed to be. You sit in the most honorable position of our democracy, and now you have to take initiative, you have to take initiative, you have to take responsibility. You must no longer allow the majority of parliament to destroy the opposition with their finger account. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we were supposed to discuss a report last week on a parliamentary research commission. This would be a report from a Commission on illegal wiretaps and freedom of communication and the privacy of private life, but with this motion that you've made, you're dismissing it. Our people are agitated. They're afraid of the phones in their pockets, their homes, the computers in front of them. There is no privacy and freedom of communication, thanks to you AKP MPs! You're postponing the Commission's investigation report on this issue on June 24th. With this proposal, you truly have the right to ask us the same question: What is the rush? This fear, this anxiety, I don't understand. Is this less important than the deed and the Cadastro Law, which we are about to discuss? But you have no answers to the questions asked by the opposition. What are you doing? Then let's not let him see you. You're taking a path like that. Your attitude is as troubling as your proposal, antidemocratic. I'm afraid we see with regret that you now prefer to remain deaf and dumb about our legitimate complaints. Therefore, we speak of the council to our people, our word to the great will of our nation. For these reasons, the AKP says we are against the group proposal, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0112par0125	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand and demand that my main Law Proposal (2/38) be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37, under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Offered by Süleyman Çelebi, İstanbul MP. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're going to talk, aren't you, Mr. Çelebi?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0113par0140	I need to talk, we're at the end of the line. Mr. President, thank you very much. With respect, with love, I salute you all. I have been promised a direct meeting of the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and my Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Once again, I salute the High Council with respect and love. Dear friends, you know, after the Soma process, after the job killing in Soma, a lot of law offers are being presented by the government. A significant portion of these proposals, my dear friends, have been brought before this House. In fact, in case you haven't noticed, I came out here with a bag. Inside that bag was an arrangement for the total removal of subcontractorization. Inside that bag was the solution to the problem of citizens who worked at 4/C status and committed suicide. In that bill, we had an offer to prevent business accidents. In that proposal, again, the solution to the problem of suicides, pensioners. Again, this bill included preventing child labor. Again, in our proposal for this law, my dear friends, there was a solution to the problem of pensioners about this policy. Now, instead of offering laws in order to save the day again with palliative measures, say yes to this law proposal in this Parliament. So say yes, my dear friends, to the arrangements to prevent the actual business accidents, not the palliative solution, instead of an arrangement that eliminates subcontractorisation in the mine alone, in the mining sector alone. Look, dear friends, most of the time, when people die, we cry a few times, 10 people die different, 20 people die different, 30 people die different, 300 people die different, we have different reactions. I'm telling you from this bench, every 73 days 301 people die, every 73 days, 301 people die in this country, which we're actually going to describe as a work accident in Turkey as a work accident. But some of them are concentrated in construction, some in other sectors. When these people die, when they die one by one, you know, they don't notice. We've offered this law on preventing these things, and I want you to say yes to this offer. So, now, friends, in this sector, of course, we say that there are improvements in the mining sector, we can talk about it as a separate law, but it's in this law that makes the barriers to working life, to child labor, to union rights and freedoms. If you're going to give a test today with your votes, if it's genuine, if it's genuine, if it's sincere, I expect you to say yes to the bill we're offering here, and I expect you to say yes to it. And I bow before my friends, who die in the business, and die in Soma, and bow before the martyrs of the field. Today is the anniversary of the death of Nazim Hikmet, and I bow before our famous poet. I salute the High Council with love.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0114par0151	Thank you. Musa Çam is the MP of İzmir who asked for a statement on behalf of a member of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0115par0155	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; (2/38) is the main no. I've made a promise on the Law Proposal. I salute you all with respect and love. We demand and demand the rights of the pensioner, the worker, by offering this law by Mr. Süleyman Çelebi. With this law, we demand and demand the Law of Unlawful, damless Trade Unions. With this law, we want the union of workers, organization, freedom. By this law, we don't violate our right to senior compensation. We offer and demand that everyone be compensated whether he works or subcontracts, whether he is a contractor or a temporary worker. With this law, we ask for a job guarantee, a staff, for a contractor who works flexible, unsecured, free of organization, sentenced to death in business accidents. It's the subcontractor system that creates a lot of problems from non-union to unsubstantiated work safety to lower wages. With the change we propose, we demand that the workers' rights and the rights of the workers be taken care of. We call this law the end of Tabheron's suffering. By this law, we demand a staff of non-secure, union-free, social rights-free, sentenced to work. With this law, we'd like to see business killings end in Turkey, where 12,723 workers have died in the last ten years. In this law, we demand that the use of child labor be banned directly, and that the results be brought to a conclusion, that this issue be breached the walls of capital and on the agenda of Parliament, that child labor be terminated. In this law, we demand and demand the right to strike, the right to the worker's right to strike, the bans of strike are lifted. In this law, we demand and demand the right to unionize the police, the civil servants of the police. We demand that six police officers fired for being union members return to duty and be reinstated. In this law, every citizen has a human right to live. We demand and demand that pensioners be given a share of the national income according to the principle. In this law, we propose an outside-country policy. We demand that the rights of pensioners be restored to those who deceive them. In this law, we "everyone has the right to social security. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establishes the organization." Given the provisions, we demand and ask for the restructuring of primal debt to the Social Security Agency for insurance and employers, independent employees, the general health insurance premiums of the People of BUG-KUR. With this law, we ask and ask for pension rights for those who work for years, work for years, pay their premiums, expect to live up to the age of retirement even though they earn a pension. Even though they earn pensions, those who wait for age find it difficult to work new jobs because of their age, and they cannot even afford health costs because they cannot work in insurance. We want this injustice to end. "You want the poor who have been helped, and we want the poor who have been destroyed." As Victor Hugo said, we call poverty, corruption, respect for work. Congressmans, in the face of this motion we have made, we will discuss the arrangements for tomorrow against subcontracting at the Grand National Assembly Plan Budget Commission and for our 301 workers who have lost their lives in Soma. And for the social security system. But before we get there, your support for this bill made by Mr. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi Τ will be brought tomorrow, as a sign of how sincere and sincere you are in the bill proposed by the Plan Budget Commission. In this upcoming vote, your vote will be a referendum on how sincere and sincere you are. We'll see him here in a minute. With your votes, we demand that this offer be legalized. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0116par0178	Thank you. I will submit the motion to your votes.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0117par0180	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit04spe0116par0181	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... yes, lawmakers, there are no decisions enough. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0116par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough to vote on the motion to be taken directly under Article 37 of the Interior Charter of İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motion is not accepted. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. The proposal for the continuation of talks on Article 72 of the Internal Charter on the report 28/5/2014 of the Parliamentary Research Commission 454, which was ranked in the 1st place to investigate the increased violence against health workers and determine the measures needed to be taken. In that case, the general discussion on the report is complete. Members of parliament, the general meeting of Parliamentary Research Commission Reports 381 and 489, which are on the special agenda according to the decision, will be held on June 24, 2014. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Istanbul MP Ihsan Barutçı has been nominated for a membership of 1 independent lawmakers in the Plan and Budget Commission who are available and are not members of the political party group. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. A list of candidates (10/937, 938, 939, 940, 941, 942, 943, 944, 944, 945, 946 and 947) in Soma district of Manisa. Now I'm going to read the list and put it to your votes, and I'm going to make you read it: [[10]] [[Adana]] [[Aksaray]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Bartin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[4]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[2]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[1]] [[Şırnak]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of the Council Research Commission elected on Wednesday 4/6/2014, tomorrow at 15 p.m. I'd like to ask them to meet in Assembly Research Commission Room 386 on the 2nd floor of the main building, and make the choice of president, vice president, spokesman and clerk. The meeting time and place of the commission has also been announced on the plasma screen. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move on to the part of the Commission's Other Affairs with Law and Proposals. We will resume our talks with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in third place, with the draft of the Law on the Agency and its duties. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 591 rows. Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP who has asked on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0118par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the amendment to the deed and the Kadastro General Directorate, the Agency and its duties. I salute you all. I'd like to begin by saying to God's mercy and to his kinsmen who lost their lives in the cave-in disaster that took place in Şırnak today. Unfortunately, this problem never comes out of our agenda, and every day we have to lose our new workers. Second point: today is June 3rd. June 3rd is not a good day for us, I'm afraid. On 3 June 1994, three Kurdish businessmen were kidnapped and slaughtered in Istanbul and murdered 20 years ago. Governments of the period attempted to eliminate some of the Kurdish businessmen by scaring some of their property as part of their liquidation policy, by scaring them away, by digesting them, by slaughtering some of them with such practices. We can't honor any of the actors of that time, any actor who had a part in these people's murder. Indeed, We will remember them with a curse, and indeed, we are hoping that one day they will face their punishment with justice, and we will continue to fight for it. War Buldan, you know, Mr. Pervin Buldan, our deputy leader, Hadji Karay, business partner Fevzi Aslan, and many other Kurdish businessmen were eliminated by this form of practices, murdered. We can count Canturk, and many other businessmen. I've stated before on this council bench, once again, that the time of these people's murder is not coincidental. When you look at the economic panoram in Turkey at the time of the slaughter of these people, and look at the summit names of the Turkish economy, you can sort of figure out why they're actually turning to them. Of the 10 major holdings of Turkey at the time, six of them belonged to businessmen who were eliminated by such practices. In the 20 years we left behind, the summit names of the Turkish economy, the summit names of that period, became one by one liquidation. In time, the names mentioned within the first 100 were eliminated from the Turkish economy, some were threatened, some were subjected to oppression, some were massacred in this way. Take a look at the list of 100 major wealthy people from Turkey from 1994. Compare that 100 large rich list with today's list, and you will see from that period that there is no name left but one name left in the first 100. They've all been purged somehow. Here, Behice Canturk was one of them, one of them was from the War Bul, and many others can be counted. Again, June 3rd, the anniversary of the death of the great poet Nazim Hikmet. Once again, we honor our great poet here, we remember, we call his place heaven. In his poems, in his verses, in his verses, he reads the messages of Turkey's new generations, he tries to understand them again, and I want to say that Turkey's future began to build through the right messages hidden in his lines. Now, when we sort of put today's current events on the table, and we go through the pages, we'll see what we're really talking about about about yesterday in a way that we're dealing with about the same things, about the same things, about the same things today. Look, for over a year and a half, there's been no bloodshed in Turkey, thank God people aren't dying, no funerals at any of the parents' doors. I can't imagine anything more valuable than that. By dividing my three-year parliamentary position into two phases, I can analyze what this process means: from June 2011 to December 2012, from where I am a parliamentary district to various cities of Turkey, soldiers, police, guerrillas, about 300 funerals have been removed. I don't mean any exaggerations, I've witnessed about 300 funerals, I've witnessed broken bodies, I've witnessed burnt bodies. I'm considering the last year and a half after December 2012, and we're witnessing that there's been no criminal activity except for the security forces who died in the car accident, and we're trying to take over this process, and we're trying to strengthen it. Either way, we're preventing any behavior that might sabotage this process. Wherever there's a military operation going on, wherever there's an attempt to build a new outpost, and if it's a trend and a verb that's going to sabotage this process, we're trying to stand in front of it. To the mountains of this country, we want the people of this country to go on a picnic, and we're trying to do it. We want people to be able to go to the Birkleyn caves of lice. But under what circumstances can they go to Birkleyn caves? Mr. Secretary knows it very well-- if it's quiet, if these conflicts end, if these problems are solved, he can go away. I'm sure a lot of you may have heard that name for the first time, but when you go and look at it, when you see it, you'll be able to testify that maybe it's one of the few wonders of nature in the world. We want people to go to Mt. Meskan to have a picnic and have fun on the bow. But today, at both of these points, I'm afraid there's an atmosphere where there's a risk of conflict. A spark that's going to come out, look, it's going to turn everything upside down, it's going to make it meaningless for us to talk to each other here. This process is too important to make political material like that. If we don't sit down and ponder our problems on solutions, and we don't find solutions, then if we don't solve our problems as a statement, perhaps as a threat statement, but I never use them in that sense, then the challenge will be empty for the forces that wish the Middle East would be thrown into chaos, we'll leave them the square, and Turkey can become the most chaotic country in Middle East. I'm just saying, let's be aware of the magnitude of the problem, the seriousness of it. If we talk to us, we can solve our problems, we can solve our problems if we think about it, but if this geography evolves into a chaotic environment, if chaos prevails, the hidden hands that will rule us all will be exposed, and they will redesign this geography, again, for their own will and purpose, despite all of us, they will be able to do it. Doesn't this Parliament have the virtue of solving the problems of the people of this country? There is. We believe that virtue exists, that ability exists. That's why we put all our views on the table with all our nudity. Without keeping anything hidden on the sidelines, we clearly, whatever is written in our agenda, we reveal and invite you to discuss -- whatever our idea is -- in terms of solution proposals. Now, tomorrow may be too late. Instead of finding the arguments to squeeze each other into the political atmosphere today, instead of thinking about them, I think we should consider the arguments of the solution. We don't want young people and children to go to the mountains, and we don't approve of it at all. On the contrary -- how long have we been out of hair here, and we've been expressing it every time -- we're saying, let's make arrangements to bring the mountains down to the plain, to normalize, and let's do the normalization steps that will bring them back. His criticism of us is of no value unless the government takes these steps. Stop trying to create politics by guiding the BDP, HDP, families, by stacking them in front of municipalities. It's not politics. No one believes it. If he did, you'd get results in the pain. Every day in the pain, the families came to us, and shared their troubles, and their serviles with us. Even the children were kidnapped and kidnapped by the BDP candidate. I witnessed it myself. It wasn't worth anything. We have increased 1 to 273. There were 11 differences, 2,900 points. We've increased 273 to 1. We encountered the same propaganda in Norshin. If it were credible, you'd get results. He struck one with 37. Norschin increased it. So these policies are not politics, you have to give up these policies. We're really trying to be as negative in this process as possible. Civil Lightning was a child. In a peaceful act, just a year ago, a soldier lost his life with a bullet. What did he say? I want factories to be built, not outposts, in this geography. You were so fond of Kurdish children, why don't you ever remember Civil Yıldırım? I'll share a photo with you. I witnessed this boy's last breath. Nine years old, Enes Ata. I witnessed that day as a journalist. In the March 28, 2006, Enes was shot in the chest. He was nine years old. The cameras drew their last breath. He took his last breath on camera. How long has it been? Where is 2006 today? What did you do about this kid's perp, the cop who murdered this kid, the one who pulled the trigger on the gun? Ceylan Forearm. The crime is always a stain on your collar, a stain on your face. What did we all do to keep the ruling opposition from dying again? Uður Kaymaz, when he was killed with 13 bullets at the age of 12, what did the Prime Minister of that day -- today's Prime Minister -- say on TV at night? He said that a terrorist was killed in Mardin Kızıltepe. Uður Kaymaz, 12-year-old Uður Kaymaz, who was waiting outside his father's door when he returned from work, became a terrorist Uður Kaymaz. Now I want to ask you, do we take the children up the mountain? You really think so? Is that how the ruling opposition, the people of this country, the West Coast thinks of us? There were many examples, I brought them here. I've had enough of this dirty propaganda of late. This is not the language of solution. We don't know where the mountain is, we just know it's on the mountain. The government has intelligence forces. If it's a matter of space, I'm sure the government knows better than we do. Let's all go, let's all go together, we'll invite them, we'll go together, we'll bring them together. But there are children we know very well where they are. We know very well where Uður Kaymaz lay, where Adam Durmaz is, and we know very well where Enes Ata., Ceylan Önkol, and many others lie; and we know very well the gravestones of them. I came here from a memorial in Istanbul. I came here on the anniversary of the slaughter of the battle Buldan, and of his two companions. I can assure you, from that hour until now, I've been thinking from that moment to this moment, in the last week, in the last 15 days, I've been side by side in the political world in Turkey, in the political arena, and I can't find anything positive. Most of the time, I get desperate. I'm concerned about the future of this country. We don't realize the extent of the danger. If we don't get support from each other, if we don't use a positive language, a language, where there's so much danger, we're all going to lose a lot. We look at each other's faces here, and we can't talk about a lot of things anymore. A hundred years ago, just as this geography was shaped by someone 200 years ago, it could be the same thing today. If we don't get our shit together and solve our own problems, somebody's gonna fix our problems the way they want to. Then we'll all lose. A country like that won't be the country of any of us. If you want a full democratic independent Turkey, whether it's full democratic independent Kurdistan, it's not your country, it's not ours. A geography designed by others does not belong to us. Then let's deal with our own problems, find our own solutions. We're not going to mean much about this bill, about the arrangement of this clause, but we've also expressed our opposition. I wish you all the best, thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0119par0107	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0120par0111	Mr. President, I've taken a pledge on the Law bill to change the Law on the State Department and its duties in the Union and the Kadastro General Directorate, ranking 591. I salute you all. There's one thing I'd like to bring to the attention of the government before I begin my speech, although it's partly relevant to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Agriculture, but it's a matter of interest to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. But, of course, we can't see Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism at the time of the government, but I'd like to ask that the Minister, after he's done the necessary consultation, inform the High Assembly of this matter. The issue is: The Law on Change in Land Protection and Land Use Law No. 6537 was published in the Official Gazette of 15/5/2014 and entered into force. According to this law, two new basic concepts were introduced in the form of agricultural land, with the size of arable agricultural land, and were classified and defined. The eras, ifraz and divisions are intended to be prevented on agricultural land by this law, and as of today, because of this law, the whole of Turkey is not able to sell land, all transactions are blocked. Agricultural agencies are required to discuss whether or not it is in accordance with Land Protection and Land Use Law 5403, according to law. But those answers don't come in much, and the process is now blocked. People who sell their land can't sell it, citizens who buy it can't buy it, many of them paid for it. I'm warning the government that this is a very important problem, and I'm waiting for an answer. Mr. President, the 8th article on the return capital operations of the Constitutional Court has been cancelled by its income there. In this joke, the procedure and the basis for the management, activities, operations, capital resources, all kinds of administrative and financial transactions and their incomes are determined by the regulations to be adopted by the Ministry of Finance. The Constitutional Court has cancelled this statement on the grounds that its incomes are contrary to the Constitution and that these return capital revenues must be regulated by the law, and the provision for this bill is being made. The Constitutional Court's annulment is a manifestation of the AKP's ruling's understanding that I did it, which is unlawful, unprincipled. Another example of lawlessness is that even a amendment bill about correction cannot be transferred to parliament on time. Although the Constitutional Court has been issued too late and the bill has been transferred to parliament in mid-May, after a long period of six months since its publication, and its meeting on the commission only after the deadline has been completed is a sign of the AKP government's sad calling and incompetence. Although, since you, the Justice and Development Party, don't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, I understand that you're making this arrangement, and I think it's due to a question of respect for these Constitutional Court rulings. In the end, the government continues its unlawful acts, as well as its dignity. Currently, the property service costs collected from our citizens since 22 May 2014 have no legal basis, but these costs continue to be collected so far. During the talks on the Plan and Budget Commission, it is clear that the ruling party's motion to implement this law on May 22, 2014. On the grounds of the Constitutional Court's decision, the return capital fee was referred to as a financial obligation similar to the sum. According to this, the Constitution's Article 73, titled "Taxwork" states that taxes, fees and so on, will be dealt with and replaced by the law. Given the Constitutional Court's decision and the definition of a similar financial obligation, it also reveals how essential it is to draft a general framework bill that will discipline the public's 2.900 rotating capital operation. We know that a framework draft of the law on rotating capitals that have been studied for many years has been drawn up in the Ministry of Finance and has been sent to the Prime Minister's office, but we have no news of its outcome. So I'm asking the government, what is the state of this rotating capital bill, and what phase is it in? In October 2012, during the budget presentation of 2013, the Minister of Finance said we are putting an end to the work prepared for the new capital law. Apparently, this is the end point, not the end point, but the point of the three points, which is that the government is continuing to end. The return capital bill must be transferred to Parliament at once. The deed and the Kadastro General Directorate have deviated from the principle of unity and generality of the budget in implementing rotating capital. Even when we examine the return capital activities of the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate on the surface, this emerges. The fact that some public companies have started to view their return capital revenues as a means of financing has caused the budget system to fail. We call it a return of capital to small capital units, which are set up to evaluate the excess capacities of public service in accordance with market rules. Returning capital businesses can be seen as a need for the functioning of the basic services and tasks of the state. Trade, testing, agricultural, cultural and professional activities can be done through these enterprises, so that an empty capacity is used, a specific demand is met, and an additional income is provided to the state. One of the major deviations of the generality principle of the budget are these rotating capital businesses, which are given a business capital, as well as the enterprises that run small-scale commercial, testing and agricultural activities for profit, and which are owned by the entire capital. As predicted by Agency Law No. 6083, the institution has been assigned to the General Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro, to build the country's cadastro, to restore and update the property plans, to conduct control and control services related to them. In addition, it is not appropriate for public service to receive a return capital fee for the institution's main tasks and powers. This understanding transforms public enterprise into a private business company. Besides, these services must be charged, and these fees are registered as an allowance by the Constitutional Court's decision, which must be included in central management budget revenues and these expenditures from return capital must also be made from the general budget. Deputies, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate staff are overwhelmed by low wages, excessive workloads and overwork. The standards for the presentation of public services were established and published in the Official Gazette on July 31, 2009. Under this regulation, the service standards of the Local Register Office are also set. According to this, for example, two hours for a sale, two hours for the payment of the inheritance, two hours for the transfer of the inheritance, two hours for the application process, two hours for the merge, four hours for the delivery process. However, the burden of work and processing in the property register managers is far above those standards. For example, an officer has to do four transactions a day over two hours for a sales transaction, while in practice, one officer does 8-9 a day. These standards are not observed anywhere. The workload is increasing day by day. It's against human rights and it's a chore. As we all know, there is also a ban on chores according to our Constitution. An average amount of capital per transaction is between $100 and $180. There is no way that the return funds and the Tapu Kadastro personnel will receive an extra working fee. Although the Finance Ministry has paid its employees a lot of work due to their work 2/B, neither has Tapu Kadastro, who operates infrastructure for 2/B, has been paid any fee, nor has it been paid much work. Dear friends, according to Article 1007/th of the Turkish Civil Code, all damage due to the holding of the deed is state responsibility and it will be reported that it will harm the underprivileged officials, but it is also appropriate to be paid by an insurance fund due to the excessive workload and overwork of deed officers who have been difficult to falsify even in court. Otherwise, even if the Tapu Kadastro officers die, their debts continue and their heirs demand rejection. There are many problems and lawsuits. In order to finish his work at the cadastro administrations, the staff ignores the concept of overtime and is employed between lunch and late evening. It's still a question the government expects to answer when and how the officers who are working overtime will receive the overtime they deserve. I believe it would be helpful for us to briefly mention the sale of land to the foreigners on the basis of these talks by the Legislators for the changes in the Law on the Foundation and its duties. The state is a legal entity organized politically based on territorial integrity. Thus, the land is the principal element of a country's sovereignty. There are certain restrictions on land sales in all countries. Particularly in the areas of security in these countries, in agriculture areas, in irrigation areas, there are restrictions on selling land to strangers. Given that the developed countries are struggling to have new energy sources, agricultural fields and water resources, the limitations are also inevitable. This land, watered by the blood of the martyr, is a holy land for us. However, the AKP government, which has yet to comprehend the meaning of the concepts of country, land, state and nation, has put a price on this saintly land and has sold it to foreigners, making the bones of our martyrs weep. The 87th Article of Village Law 442 is forbidden for foreign real and legal persons to receive no residence in the villages. However, in 2003, the laws issued by the AKP's government were released from Turkey, with the laws of 4875 and 4916, allowing the real and legal persons of foreigners to adopt a move. Under these laws, Article 87 of the Village Law and Article 36 (P.S.) of the Tapu Law have been lifted from effect, with the maximum limit of 30 hectares. However, the Constitutional Court cancelled these arrangements in 2005. The verdict, issued by the AKP government on July 3, 2008, has been changed in Law 5782 and Tapu Law, and has been increased to 10 per cent of the facial measurement and zoning plans for foreign ownership in Turkey, limited to a thousandth of a century. Following this 2008 arrangement, very serious land sales have been made in our country's coastal areas, especially in the tourist zones, and at the end of these sales, a significant portion of our country has been taken over by foreign real and corporate individuals. Of course, there are many words to be said about this issue, but with criticism of these land sales, are government officials generally represented by those who buy the land on their backs? Dear lawmakers, on December 2, 2013, I gave the Minister of Environment and Urbanism a motion to ask foreigners about the sale of land. I share this question motion with you: in 2010, according to information from the governorates, our country's zoning area is 2,263,000 hectares. Thus, the total amount of land that can be sold to foreigners is 226 thousand hectares in accordance with Article 35 of the Tapu Law prior to the release of Law 6302 of May 3, 2012. On May 3, 2012, the 1st Amendment to the Tapu Kadastro Law was changed to 10 per cent of the county's facial measurement on private property. With this change, we asked strangers how much land to sell? Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. İdris Gullüce said on February 17, 2014 that Turkey's facial measurements on private property have begun to calculate for 957 districts and that the amount of land that can be sold to foreigners and how much it will increase is clearly calculated. So, the government makes a law, it increases the sale of land to foreigners, but it doesn't know how much land to be sold to foreigners by the change of law, how much land to be sold to strangers, how much of it will be sold to foreigners. That's what they call inequity and lack of books, and I salute your honorable committee with these thoughts.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0121par0134	Thank you. Vahab Elector, MP of Mersin, who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0122par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's an important matter that Mr. Akçay just said. Mr. Minister of Agriculture was here, and he had the opportunity to listen to them, except Mr. Gülluce wasn't here. Indeed, a number of recent legal regulations have now brought our farmers into serious trouble. In particular, the changes in the Land Protection Act, the changes in agricultural heritage law, have now faced some difficulties at the point of disposing or selling our producers' land. We'd like the Minister to take some precautions. We're also getting complaints from our manufacturers. You know, of course, the social class that operates in the sector we're talking about or in this sector is Turkey's most troubled class; producer, farmer. Well, he's already in serious trouble. Maybe people want to pay their piper, pay their tuition, or create business capital to continue production; they want to sell land, but unfortunately they can't do it right now. We demand that you resolve this matter immediately. My dear friends, this amendment, the bill, was discussed last week in the Plan and Budget Commission. This was a regulation of the Law concerning the Agency and its duties, which was issued in 2010, in deed number 6083, and the Kadastro General Directorate. Under the heading of the reciprocal capital business, the regulation of the management, operations, operations, operations, capital resources, all administrative and financial transactions, and the basis of the regulations to be taken out of the Ministry of Finance. This law, in those days, is being taken to the Constitutional Court by our party, demanding that some of its clauses be revoked, and this clause is being revoked according to the Constitutional Court's ruling dated 27/9/2012. And the reason is, the Constitutional Court says, you can't leave the procedures and the basics of income in particular, regarding return capital revenues. The law has to do it. This needs to be drawn. The Constitutional Court, in its case, calls the return capital fee "a financial obligation like money." Returning capital revenues such as the allowance are said to be regulated by the law, cancelling the rule that the authority to regulate the amount and proportion of the return capital revenues is allowed to operate, the amount and the proportion of the financial obligation, which is not determined by the law, will not be consistent with the understanding of legal security and legal state at all times. So when you look at the Constitutional Court's justified decision, we have some reservations that may seem appropriate. In particular, we see that the government is quickly moving away from one budget application, and I want to say that we will oppose that law. My dear friends, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr. Gülluce is here. Of course, our assessments should be more environmentally relevant, urbanism. There are questions waiting for answers, problems waiting for solutions. June 5th, World Environment Day. Naturally, on that day, people who are particularly environmentally sensitive will hold certain meetings about this, their constitutional rights, their constitutional rights from the Constitution, their demands to live in a clean and healthy environment, but environmental problems will continue, environmental pollution will continue, deviant urbanization will continue, again, unplanned installation, some energy sources, HESTANs, nuclear plant constructions will continue, I'm afraid the nature massacres will continue. When I think of the environment, I think of Mr. Prime Minister, who said: "I'm a green man, a green man." What happens when I think otherwise, if the Prime Minister wasn't green or green? During the thirteen-year period of AKP power, Turkey faced truly important environmental problems. Look, in the work of international organisations, Turkey is ranked as the 109th among 132 countries with environmental performances. Now, there's the third bridge discussion. Environmentalists, environmental sensitivities, oppose this issue, but there's an interesting paradoxical situation, there's a contradiction. Let's see what Mr. Prime Minister said about a project like this during the mayoral period, on April 27, 1995, for the third bridge, he says: "The third bridge is a murder." Such an attempt has deadly consequences for the modern urbanization of Istanbul and for the domestic transportation system. But today, thousands of trees can be slaughtered in that area for the third bridge. Of course, I'm opening up the road without books. There are mayors today who plunder trees. Look, there's been a major change in regulations. With the government's amendment to the CED Charter, the CED report was lifted for projects taken into the investment programme prior to 23 June 1997, which, as of April 5, 2013, had passed the planning phase, tendered or started producing or running. You know, this went into the judicial process, it was canceled, it was reopened, and then, last year, it was dealt with with with with a piece of legislation that was added to a bag of legislation. These, of course, are the methods of moving across the law, of major projects, especially projects of social opposition. Again, in 2011, mining activities were exempted from the CED process. It was a mistrial, but in the meantime, a lot of businesses took advantage of it. Again, in 2011, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism was divided into the Councils for the Protection of Culture and Nature, as cultural and natural. Cultures are linked to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and nature's assets are linked to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Thus, the autonomy of the boards was eliminated. During this process, thermal plants were built on the corners of heaven: In Amasra, in Çanakkale, in Biga, in Çanguldak Kirechlik Bay, in Zonguldak, in Zonguldak, in my constituency, in Mersin Yeşovacık, in the Black Sea of Thrace, in Pinada, in which there was a beach of Pinada, in which there was an area of paradise-type forests -- were indeed killings and killings that hurt our hearts. You know, last week was the anniversary of the Travel Park events. Those events also began with an environmental sensitivity. As a matter of fact, outside the city, Mr. Prime Minister -- just Mr. Prime Minister -- with great stubbornness, with great stubbornness, I don't want a tree here, I don't want a park here, I'm going to build an AVM here, I'm going to build a residence here, I'm going to build another facility here. There, dozens, hundreds of our citizens were injured, Turkey's morale, motivations were broken. Turkey discussed it for days. Just look at a counteroffensive from environmental sensitivity that has brought Turkey to its destinations. Now, Mr. Minister, on 1 March 2014, there was an environmental problem in a region on the border with Mersin. I got a call from a citizen who was environmentally sensitive, who was operating in environmental organisations, who said: "There is a region between the Seyhan River and the Berdan River, a wet area we call the Dead Lagun. There was a complaint from the villagers; we got in our vehicle; we got in the car; it's a mess. What happened? What happened? You don't know why -- the cows who ate grass died in a way we didn't know. Fish hit the side of the river, poisoned to death. The dogs, who ate the dead fish, they're dead, too. An environmental massacre. What do you have to do? You need to call 181 immediately. That's what the citizens did. However, the citizens say: "We have had a hard time getting this complaint to them. " You can look into it, the citizen's claim. I made this a question motion, and you said, "No, that can't happen." But the point is, my advisor called your Ministry, called the office in charge. Where did he call? Environmental Effect Evaluation Permission and Control Directorship. He told me about it. I'm a congressman, I have to follow up on my fellow citizens' problems. I'm an intermediary between you and my citizens, the administration, and I'll request and request you to address these problems. Look, March 1st, June 3rd, how many months have passed, a bureaucrat of yours turned to us and said, "Ya, my dear MP, there have been problems like this, and that's why we interfered with this. That can't happen. In the smallest sense, it's disrespectful; it's disrespectful to the congressman, it's disrespectful to the people he represents. Now, I make this a question motion, I send it to you, two and a half months later, on May 20th, you send me an answer. Look, this is an environmental disaster, this is an environmental massacre -- whatever you call it -- you let me know in two and a half months. What you did during that process, did you really or did you not do research? I didn't see any transactions there either. And you say, in your answer, there is no chemical waste. So, how did these animals die, how did they die? On the other hand, it's a simple answer, a evasive answer: there's agricultural production in those areas, agricultural areas. It's true. There were pesticides there. It's true. This could be a death from them. This is nothing more than a diversion. Now, Mr. Secretary, really, the position you're sitting in is a very important office, the future of Turkey, environmental and urbanism. You can make mistakes in anything, in health, in agriculture, in other matters, but when you slaughter the environment, you take away the life rights of future generations, you give them no right to live. And if ye drown the cities and the cities and their habitations in disorder, what would ye have to do to mend it? You'll bomb the city from above, then you'll build it again. That's not possible in practice either. Therefore, you need to be more sensitive about these matters. Now, Mr. Secretary is doing a private interview, saying very nice things about love. It's impossible to disagree. There's a stunning line that says that instead of traveling around the mall, our young people should watch the seagulls. I don't go into the details. It was a pretty good interview, a little nostalgic, a lot of youth. Partly, from time to time, we do that nostalgia, too. But he says, instead of walking around in the AVM, he should watch the seagulls. Now, it's as if the government has parked, and our young people, our lovers, our lovers, our young people in love, sat in that park and watched the seagulls. Now, I just told you about Travel Park. Environmentalists, young people say: "Let this park be a park -- as the Minister has pointed out -- let's watch the seagulls, let's sit down with the birds, let's have a nice chat with our lovers." But your mind is in the money stamps, in the Rantta: No, let's say this is the AVM, let's be the residence. There's Tufik Sırrı Gür Stadium in Mersin, Mr. President knows very well.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0123par0155	I played football there.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0122par0156	You played football there, too. There were really exceptional facilities for Mediterranean Games in Mersin. Your government, of course, has a share here, and at the time, the CHP's mayor has a share. We thank everyone, and if the Republican People's Party has contributed to the AKP, and the AKP, and the MPP have contributed to the city, and now the same Mayor, the Mediterranean Mayor of that period. So far, so good. It was a beautiful stadium, but on one hand, we gave the stadium to the people of Mersin. They shout, they make political propaganda, and on the other hand, they take the Tefik Secret Gür Stadium. The secret of the Tefik is the Georgian Stadium, the seakeeper, the city's lung. Now there's going to be a mall there. Mr. Prime Minister is coming to Mersin on June 9th, and he says, "What is it, sir? I'm reading a sentence because my time is running short." Tell him to go to the mayor and he'll park it for you. The mall will build it for you. TOKI is going to build a mall, and God knows who's going to get their hands on it. Now, it turns around, before the March elections, before the local elections, on March 13th, the same Prime Minister says that there is not even a square of Mersin. ▪ Should we have held this rally in such a place? We're gonna build a big city square here. So Mersinli will be able to do the rally in this square, but he will also be able to come and travel in this square. Now, which one is it? As Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I expect you to answer that. My dear friends, I'm running out of time, but I'd like to talk to you about two things, especially the environment. Turkey is an open country. Turkey averages 60 billion dollars -- I give you the number of recent times -- the current is open. It imports about $60 billion in energy. He imports oil, he buys electricity from neighbors, he imports electricity, et cetera, et cetera. Now, we're being criticized for this. We say, "Don't do the HES. Look, there are 1,400 projects. Part of it is complete, part is under construction, part is in the project phase. You guys don't do HES where you come from. Okay, Turkey's water supply is important. We're not water-rich, but we don't have a bad usable water capacity. We have, like, 100 billion cubic metres of water. Let's take advantage of them. Let's make it HES. There's no problem, but, brother, you've made it a front door. Mr. Prime Minister once told me that he was talking about people with handbags, who were traveling in Ankara, who sold these HES licenses. Now, let's pay some attention to these. Look, one day, Mr. President told us about an incident that took place at the group meeting in Rize. He's got the citizen's water, he's got the bird, he's got the citizen's bug, he's got the citizen's tree, you've got the soldier... you've got the soldier. I'm surprised at those soldiers, too. So we send this son of a bitch to the army with a drum, and you hand it to him, and you beat your own citizen. There's a picture of the woman's foot in the papers, of our sister who's objecting, our veiled sister. In the events of the trip, our headscarf sister was also attacked. The headscarved sister you call her is a mess. Why are you doing this? It's because he's opposed to HES. It's all wrong. Get your head out of the car and look around. Lift your head from the rant and gaze at the green, to protect the green, to protect the environment. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0124par0165	Thank you. We'll do the QA. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0125par0168	Mr. President, thank you. Now it's about the legislature. The bill is one item, and the rest are executive and executive substances. Of course, the Supreme Court cancelled it, etcetera. Now he's making it a law, making the Council of Ministers a little bit more at work -- intertwined. I'm telling the Minister that bringing this up... these deed offices get a lot of money. So it doesn't make sense to say, "What if we lower it a little bit?" Isn't that the kind of law that brings up? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0126par0172	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0127par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in Şanliurfa, the electricity goes out ten to twelve hours a day in the summer, and in winter it goes out the same way. When will this problem of electricity be resolved? That's my first question. My second question is, again, to our farmers who produce, here comes an electric fine of at least 30 to 40,000 euros. When we collect the proceeds, if the wheat sows the wheat, or if the cotton sows the cotton, the wheat or money that he sells doesn't cover the electricity money that comes in. What measures do you intend to take in accordance with the principle of the social state? So should the citizen sell this land or emigrate from the village? What do you suggest to the peasant? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0128par0178	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0129par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, many bureaucrats in the Istanbul Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism have been relieved of duty, replaced; some of them are being investigated by the prosecution. But is your Ministry's Investigation Board investigating any of the bureaucrats removed from this mission? The grounds for his dismissal were made because the allegations made by your Ministry in the December 25th investigation were seen as serious? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0130par0183	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0131par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there has been an increase in the PKK's terrorist organization's attacks recently. Roads are cut off, soldiers, citizens, children are kidnapped, police stations are destroyed, business machines are burned, roads are controlled. It's like the state's been pulled from east and southeast and handed over to the PKK terrorist organization in the region. There's no way to accept that. What does the government do about it? Because of PKK's activity, Turkey will be reduced to a state in its own country that cannot build police stations? Has the region been handed over to the PKK? In addition, there is a requirement that the producers do not have to lend money to electricity companies for their agricultural support. I condemn it. Mr. Secretary, does the government collect private power companies? Are private companies incapable of collecting their own debts? Why does he take charge of their collection, and why are our peasants being victimised? Will you put an end to the practice that destroyed the manufacturer? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0132par0189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0133par0191	Sir, first I answer Mr. Ali Bey's question: no additional tuition is received. We're being defeated because they say that the tuitions that have already been received have not already been calculated by the Constitutional Court, or there's nothing more to come. When will Mr. Tanal recover from the electricity of Şanlıurfa? Why does it cut so much? That's not my position, but I'll pass it on to the Minister. The electricity money for the Urban villagers is not my area. I'll pass this on to the Minister, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. What Mr. Original said... our Investigation Board did, of course. They do what the law says. There's already a trial going on. Gürkut Acar Bey says the roads are being closed, and the region has been delivered to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? The Republic of Turkey is a huge 77 million-dollar country, which does not surrender to such a terrorist organization, cannot be surrendered, has not been delivered. Thirty-forty years of terror. This terror is being fought relentlessly. Our government is very strong, and these people don't give bonuses to three bandits. Our government and state have been fighting and fighting terror for thirty years to destroy terror. And of course, we condemn those events. It's about private companies' electricity money, and it's not my place again, but everyone needs to come to a compromise on this. It'll lead to a discussion of whether or not electric users pay for electricity. Then who will pay for the electricity, and who will not? For him, it's also a political debate. I don't have a chance to answer that, but I mean, we can't make an offer that people who use electricity don't pay for electricity, and we can't think about it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0134par0197	Agricultural support is being cut off, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0133par0198	So which manufacturer won't pay for the electricity, which villagers will pay for it, which villagers should not pay for it, which is the law, but the legislation now, the law, who uses electricity, has legal provisions to pay for it, but the lawmaker makes a law so that those who use electricity can't pay for it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0134par0199	No, sir, why are you cutting agricultural support? That's what I'm asking, Mr. Secretary, you don't understand. Why is the regional support being cut down, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0133par0200	Sir, the Department of Agriculture can't... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0134par0202	It's being cut off because it's not paid.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0135par0203	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0136par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the problem with the collection of money just now is that there is an open sentence in the Criminal Bankruption Act. What's it called? The support given by the state is not foreclosed, he says. Look, there's a cabinet decision on March 4, 2014, and you have your signature. This is not my position. You say that. Wouldn't a minister know about the decision of the Council of Ministers with your signature? I submit to you this decision of the Council of Ministers. Now, the law says these supports are not foreclosed. You're making a decision from the Council of Ministers, and you're saying there will be no price to pay to support the electricity debt of the citizens. Isn't that cheating against the law? Isn't that a misdemeanor? When you did the privatisation, you'd really be right if you told other firms that we would issue a decision like this, that you could participate. But isn't that also a charge of misbehaving a tender with the Council of Ministers' decision, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0208	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Zozani...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0138par0210	I wasn't going to take any words, but I'm going to answer a question that has nothing to do with the fact that I found a little bit provocative... as a question.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0211	Mr. Zozani, you will ask the Minister a question.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0138par0212	I'm asking a question, Mr. President. In the region, the information that Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has blocked is a lie. The expressions used for this purpose are provocation statements. I've just been on the stand for 20 minutes, but, Mr. Gürkut Acar, if he didn't understand a 20-minute conversation, there's nothing to be said for his last question. In fact, I'd expect the Minister to testify that this information was false. For 30 years, the state is great. We have heard and expressed much, and if there are still those who think like Mr. Gürkut Acar where we come from, it is their shame.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0214	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0139par0216	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0217	Mr. Tanal, you'll have to ask questions. Please...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0139par0218	Sir, isn't that a rhetorical question?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0219	Yes, but you'll ask questions.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0139par0220	I just asked a question. I mean, what was it, Mr. President, not a question?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0137par0221	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0139par0222	Now, the question is: there's a children's hospital with 355 people in Şanlıurfa. Here 70 babies are born a day and 24,000 births a year.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0140par0223	Ask him about the law, sir, what's it got to do with the law?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0139par0224	This hospital isn't enough for the Şanliurfas, it's not enough. Are you guys planning on building another children's hospital again? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0141par0226	Thank you. Mr. Acar, please.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0228	Thank you. Mr. President, I asked the Minister the question, but I got the answer from Mr. Zozani. So you're telling me that the papers here and the news from the area are all lies? So the kids aren't being kidnapped, the police station construction is being destroyed, the business machines aren't being burned? So what did we get wrong?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0231	You've got it all wrong, you've got it all wrong, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0232	I listened carefully to Mr. Zozani's speech for 20 minutes, and he actually told us about the suffering there. That's exactly what we share in these sufferings.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0233	You've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0234	We really condemn the pressure and terror of our Kurdish citizens from here, but there is a truth.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0235	You don't want to find a solution, you want to provoke.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0236	He belied all that. So we're imagining things? Are all these papers lying? Is all this news a lie?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0237	Let's go, let's get you there, see for yourself what's going on there!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0238	I mean, I'm totally against the murder of those Kurdish citizens, but I'm also opposed to an application that would cause division of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0239	Come tomorrow, I'll take you to lice, see for yourself!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0240	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0144par0241	Thank you, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0143par0242	Come on, I'll take you to lice tomorrow. Come on!
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0142par0243	We'll go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0144par0244	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0145par0245	Mr. President, after the Soma mining disaster, subcontractor work was on the agenda and health staff working in all parts of the country, especially in public hospitals and university hospitals, were on a one-day strike by temporary medical staff or subcontractor staff. This is the day-to-day strike of our friends, the union representatives in those hospitals, who are being terminated today. One example of these events took place at the Shelley University Hospital. A notice has been issued that five workers' representatives or subcontractors' work documents have been terminated. Yes, this behavior shows how healthy the labour health and safety laws are! The law on subcontractor work, which you want to bring in or want to bring in, is also shown in the commission's proposal that there will be no solution. I'd like to make the necessary attempts to correct all of this as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0144par0246	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0146par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, many phone calls from Gaziantep have stated that the property registrars have not been processed. It is also stated that the job is delayed due to a transaction between the property registrar's office and the Agricultural Directorate. Do you think you can work this out? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0147par0251	Thank you. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0148par0253	Mr. Secretary, we've received the same phone calls from citizens who are trying to process the property registrar's office in the Alexandria area, where Ali Serindağ had just given an example from Gaziantep. Again, citizens who go to the land register offices are sent to the Agricultural County Directorate, the Agricultural County Directorate, the property registrar's office. I'd like to request that the work be done on the matter as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0147par0254	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0149par0256	Sir, I'm answering Mr. Tanal (Mr. Tanal)'s question about the hospital: We've made an incredible change in Turkey with a vision of health 30 years and 40 years ahead. If he needs a hospital, it's planned. I'm going to tell the Ministry of Health about this, but I'm making a wish that everyone compare this day with Turkey's health policies five years, ten years, fifteen years ago. Is that enough? This needs to be investigated and measured. The Ministry of Health is very well-equipped. It's obvious from the work he's already done, and it's a ministry that the citizen appreciates the most and prays for. If the hospital needs it, if it needs it, if it's calculated, if it's at the rate our congressman says it is, I think it's going to be planned. The issue of the title registration managers, which Mr. Serindağ said: Now, under Law 5403, we cannot decide whether this land is to be sold or not. We have to ask the Ministry of Agriculture because at this point the Department of Agriculture will have to work on such a mechanism to protect the authority and agricultural land. You can rightfully make this criticism here. This has to speed up, this investigation, this investigation, this response, it's got to be fast, the citizen shouldn't waste time. But we have to ask the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Agriculture, the authorities, about this problem, and we have to ask them not to have any other problems in the future. I'd say we're going to be working on our land managers and our Agricultural Ministry officials moving quickly on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0259	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0151par0262	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0263	All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The merger...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0151par0265	I've asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0266	No, I thought you raised your hand because you agreed. I didn't hear it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0151par0267	Oh, come on, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0268	I didn't hear you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0151par0269	Everyone heard what I said, and it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0270	I get it, but I'm saying I didn't hear it. The number of decisions required: Stand up, I want the number of decisions in a loud voice. It's called the number of decisions. I took it as an admission that you were raising your hand.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0151par0271	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit05spe0150par0272	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0150par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 96th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 591. The commission and the government are in place. TAPU AND ACTRO PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTION Article 8 of the Law on the Union and its Missions of the Kadastro General Directorate No. 6083, dated 1-25/11/2010, has been added to the following jokes. In accordance with the first joke, the incomes to be obtained were shown in the setting of the Charter (III). Local coefficients on the tariff table are set between 0.30-3.00 per Ministry, with the geographical and economic status of the provinces and counties, population, level of development, volume of transactions and non-movings taken into account. The Council of Ministers has the authority to reduce or increase the amount of return capital service or to up to half the amount or to up to three times the amount set on the tariff table. Returning capital service costs are applied for that year by increasing the rate of re-valued and defined under Tax Code 213, dated 4/1/1961, which is valid from the beginning of each calendar year. (7) The price of capital service is not collected from the property transactions and data-sharing of public administrations, village corporate persons and development agencies on the part of the law. In addition, any abandonment carried out by the land managers and leaving in places such as the free road and the green area, the process of correcting mistakes that have been made by the General Manager's departments, the transactions conducted by the office of the deed, the family housing transactions, and the transfer from the altitude of the household to the city's floor ownership will not be charged with capital service costs. In protocols or contracts related to data sharing, procedures and foundations for paying return capital service costs can be arranged. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the matter.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0152par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this law contains a material change in the Agency and its duties in the General Directorate of Tapu and Kadastro. Our friends just mentioned it in general, but here -- some of you may not have heard it after lunch -- there's an important freak. Yeah, our friends brought it in, it's on the grounds of the law. What does it say? There has been a mandatory cancellation by the Constitutional Court in the 5th article of the 8th article of the law here, and we have brought this law as a bill. Now, the bill, as you know, comes from the Council of Ministers. There's a freak here. I said, where are the friends looking, it's a one-point law. Yeah, we know he has to, but do you know where the freak is? This cancellation was issued on 22/11/2013, the Constitutional Court's decision to cancel, which has been long-awaited for the decision to be issued in the Official Gazette. Although a period of six months has passed from 22/11/2013 to now, as of May 22nd, this unfortunately failed to reach our Commission, the General Assembly. We're looking at it, and on May 12th, it looks like it's only gonna be here in a week, but on May 18th, we only got to see each other. I mean, there's a six-month period, and since you've set it up with regulations, you've got to change the fees, but you're waiting here, you're holding us up with a bunch of stuff like the Penal Code, which is what I just said. So, well, if this is something that needs to come out, if these revenues have to be determined by the law, why did you do it with regulations, and now you're showing a clock like this? We've got days, we've got hours, we've got Fridays, we've got Saturdays, we've got plenty of time. Today's over, we're gone, what are you going to do tomorrow?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0153par0015	Deal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0152par0016	What will you do the day after tomorrow? How do you think we're going to get along tomorrow?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0153par0017	We'll work it out.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0152par0018	Now, that's what I'm saying is that there really is a freak here. If this has to come out -- there's valuable friends, there's other issues -- there's economic, social things that need to be taken structurally -- you have to take them off these agendas, take them out of these vicious conflicts that Mr. Prime Minister created, and I'm trying to tell him about it, so there's Garabet. I'm saying, this is part one. Second of all, here, of course, this is not the way we said it. If it comes in this way -- and in the commission, to our friends -- it always comes back. So, Mr. Secretary was there, our friend from the Ministry of Finance said: "We're already working on a framework draft. We need to get him out of here, just like in the do-relax-devel, you're throwing out the framework laws, like in the business-in-the-restribution. Why? Yeah, well, he's gonna do a procedure, so let's make him a separate law. Well, then we go through all this trouble. Yeah, there's a law in which there's a mosque, a tree, and a law in which there's a whole set of details. Well, now we're doing the same. These rotating capitals are practices that undermine the budgetary union, the generality of the budget. We need to rethink all of this. Now, let's figure this out. The Constitutional Court has cancelled it, the revenues are coming in. So now, we've been talking during the day, our friends and I don't have a lot of deeds being processed. Why? You laugh when I say weirdo, but we laugh because it's full at 22. Look, the next item will have a date. What do we write? For the past, as of May 22nd... how come, brother, it's June? So...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0154par0021	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0152par0022	It's happening, it's happening, it's happening, it's happening, it's happening. It's happening like Recep said, so that's what happens in the AKP's power. Then we fix it with the law here. What are we gonna do? What about those who have been taken since 22? Some of the deed apartments were right. The citizen is a victim, but if there are no regulations, how will he get that money? And now, where will the collection fund save it, and what's that going to do? So right now it's not legal, it's collection, but it's full at 22, and the citizen's waiting for the deed. I've got Garabat for him. Friends, I mean, time is good, but there's weirdness because the citizen's not doing the deed right now, it's not supposed to be done, and the people who do don't know where to record it. So, Mr. Secretary, let's take this opportunity -- not just the deed, but the return capital of other places -- through the Council of Ministers to draft the general bill on the rotating capitals that our friends have said. Otherwise, what happens, guys? I won't go into the details. The Supreme Court said they were like mortars. Therefore, because it's similar to tuition, it has to be regulated by law, and it's arranged correctly. But we also need to discuss the general logic of spinning capitals. When there are a number of different sizes outside the budget, budget discipline goes away. In return capitals, in conditional donations, the principle of the generality of the budget, and a number of practices that are disrupting the generality of the budget here... when we look at some budget principles, they need to be put into the budget. What do our friends do when they don't get regular allocations all the time? They're trying to cover certain expenses by collecting on return capital, or because we haven't developed personnel' rights, we're building another business to give them something from return capital, and we're starting another business. It's not the right system. We have to go over this from the top, we have to go over all the spinning capitals. If it is necessary to differentiate personnel rights from their rights -- at least 10 times I've spoken about the public staff regime from this bench, all our friends have argued -- according to the ministry, the title of everyone is this. Not by equal title, but by equal job -- when you put it in the title -- but if the work is different, then the working hours are different. That's why we get these problems when it's always so lumpy. If these return capital businesses are to carry out their primary public work on this occasion, they need to be revised and evaluated within the normal budget. We need to make the functions of these enterprises function then by allocations from the budget, and since they're made by public hands, we need to give them the income in the budget, but the expense -- enough for that administration. I mean, there's no point in going around the law in different ways, trying to do this through spinning capital. So, we're going to solve this today, okay, we're going to accept this clause, it's curved, it's true, but what about the other problems, are we going to solve all the spinning capitals? No. So let's make it possible for him. We need to go over some work on the equivalence of the budget here. So, here's the fiscal rule you brought back, the year before, we started here, we touched a magic hand, and it's gone. I mean, how do we get it? Pick him up on that day, and today you'll have to go ahead with the extracurriculars. Not if we work in different institutions. So, as part of all of these studies, we, the National Movement Party, have reiterated that if there is a law study to be done, if there is a measure to be taken, we will have a constructive, guiding view of opposition, especially in solving economic and social problems. On this occasion, Mr. Secretary says to all of you, let's take this bill -- we've solved it for today, but -- at least until the next budget year, in accordance with the principles of the budget, in accordance with the principle of generality.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0155par0027	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Volcana Canalioğlu, Tripoli MP.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0156par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Law drafting amendments to the State Department and its duties. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, of course, property is very important and land rights are very important, water rights are very important, but when we look at this property situation, we need to evaluate from the past to today: unfortunately, in the Black Sea forests, in villages, the cadastro business is too late, and because of this delay, citizens have lost their trust in the state. To illustrate, when we went to visit an uncle who was now in my village in the Black Sea -- in his 90s -- when we visited his house, he sat at the door of the house, cutting down fresh plants with a sickle, and we said, "What are you doing?," he said, "What are you doing? What are you doing?," he said, "I am cutting down enemies." We said: "You like to plant trees; look, you like to plant trees; you've planted trees here, you've preserved trees." Now those saplings are in front of the house. Who owns this land? Do you have a throne? Well, what happens when I grow trees and there are forests on this land? We said, "What's going to happen?" The next forest cadastro will write my land on its own land as forest land. That's why I'm making enemies. It's a very interesting phrase, dear friends, and you know what? The forest cadastro arrived three or four years ago, and this is our late uncle's land, and all the people in this situation, all the village's land was written as forest land, and all the land that he had in his possession went into the woods. After he went to the woods, he went to court, but no results were received. And they got away with it. So the deed to the cadastro is very important, but in time, it has to be efficient. Now, when we look at Tripoli, it's something that we all know, and many of you, and many of you, I suppose, all of you, have seen here, and I've advised those who don't, that they should go and see, and even when we're in Tripoli, they should come, we'll welcome them, we'll take them for a ride. In Longgöl, a world wonder and tourist centre, our beloved Minister, I don't know if you've seen it, you're our local, and you're from the nearby city -- that warped construction has grown, unfortunately, every day, and as a result of its increasing, people are disappointed when it comes here. Let me tell you a little bit about that again. During my time as director of tourism, Longgöl Mayor Kadir İnan -- he was also deceased -- told a memory in general coordination at a meeting of our minister, the governor, and other institutions managers. Why did he tell you that? For this reason: Because there were various institutions, such as the Ministry of Public Works and Housing -- at the time -- including the Ministry of Forests, the Mayor's Office, and the National Property Directorate -- and everyone here, according to their own law, was doing construction and not allowing citizens. Our late Mayor, Kadir İnan, told us that one day I came to the municipality, and when I saw a young friend of ours running from the balcony with a smile and a smile on his face, I said, "What are you doing? Where are you going?" I said, "Mr. President, my son has become. I'm going to register him." You're going to ask the city, you're going to ask the Ministry of Forestry, you're going to ask the Ministry of Environment, you're going to ask the Governorate, you're going to ask the Governorate, you're going to ask the Governorate, you're going to ask the National Real Estate Directorate. So when you look at it that doesn't actually work in Longgöl, you're going to see that the houses are in very bad shape, and this area is going to get very bad with a significant revenue on tourism. And again, what we call the arctic Turup. It's a wonder of the world, it's green, it's wood, but unfortunately, we've talked a lot here, and we're talking a lot -- the Tripoli municipalities want to make it a jointly solid waste storage facility, so they want to build a landfill. Mr. Vahaap has just told us that if you want to watch the seagulls, make it a dump site, let the seagulls fly over it, and you can enjoy it, in that smell, watch the seagulls. But not like this. We need to take care of this place. Again, in the position of Tonya Livalobo -- a place that is truly a tourist centre, a wonder of the world -- there is a desire to build a cement factory here, Mr. Secretary. In the past, our Minister of Environment before you, our fellow citizens, have been very busy with this, and the people of that place, our Tonyan citizens, came and acted in Tripoli, Ankara, they wanted to make their voices heard legally, legally, to make it a tourist centre, not concrete, not cement this place. They said, "Let's not build a cement factory." Sadly, however, at that stage, reports of the E.D.E.D. have been received, and they are constantly offered to do so, and that's the way they look at it. Mr. Minister, please consider this as the new Minister, and let's turn the position of Tonya Libalobo -- which is, let's go out together, see, it's really a wonderful place -- rather than cementing it -- rather than building a factory -- which is very far from the coast -- into the tourism center. Now, the HESEs... they don't want any citizens. Mr. Secretary said: "I have nothing to do with electricity. " But who gives HED reports to the Hesses? The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism does. That's where you have to coordinate. What does the citizen say? The citizen says: I don't want it. Wow, don't you want it? Then a woman gets three soldiers, she sticks you. What's she saying? What does my Rizeli fellow, sister, sister, brother say? I have no confidence in the government, the police, the military. It's the government's job to maintain that trust. Dear Minister, my dear lawmakers... look, we're getting closer to each other. We need to love and understand and listen to each other. As we speak here, thank God, AKP MPs are having their conversation in groups of threes and twos.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0157par0041	We're listening to it with the walkie-talkie.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0156par0042	I salute those who listen, my dear Regent, but of course we think of these talks as a warning speech for the benefit of this city, of our cities, of our country. And look, we call it electric. In this day and age -- Mr. Bayburt MP Bünyamin Bey will know -- there's no electricity in Bayburt's Rye of Rye. Why? We privatized it. There's no electricity in the teakah Longdere. Why? We privatized it, the relevant institution will come and invest it. Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Isn't it the government's job to organize this? So we need to deal with the villages, the pedestrians, that are without electricity in this era. We're filling the shores. He said he'd choose Vacay, brother. We also have an Avni Aker Stadium. For three semesters, the AKP has voted for it, but they re-founded it at the point of building it. What did they do when they did it? Our Yavuz Selim Stadium, the residences of the Forest District Directorate, our gym, and Avni Aker. It was not enough that Akçaabat gave the Fatih Stadium to Tokyo. He builds buildings that will bring huge revenues, bring lots of money, and he builds stadiums in Tripolispora, supposedly. These things can't be turned into ranta anymore. And Mr. Minister -- I'm going to finish my words, and it's running out of time, but I want to say, look, I'm your fellowman, I'm wearing Erzurumspor's uniform, I'm teaching at Erzurum. You, now, are so close to Tripoli, that Tripoli and Erzurum are intertwined. As for those of you who do not see the sea, so do We remember those of you who do not see the mountains. But why are you dismissing our bureaucrats, Minister? I mean, what's their crime? So if power changes, we say, okay, A's gone, B's come, but the same deputies, same minister. You're suspending 25 of our bureaucrats, not enough, you're cutting off the scholarships of 180 of our students. Isn't that a sin? When these students went to school, when they were studying abroad... each of us became students, all of us went on foot. You have people reading under the gas lamp -- I know because I read it. Why are you cutting their scholarships? Answer these questions, please do not exclude Tripoli. Not only you, but the other ministers have seen you, the Tripolian bureaucrats, who are all of us united in the unity of the country, but we are the people who value everything that we go to as Tripolins, science, business, politics, sports, culture, art. And you'll probably tell us the reason why they were taken, because it really hurt the public from the heart. I say that the members of the same Ministry have a reason for taking in their knowledgeable, well-grown employees, and I salute the High Council with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0049	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0159par0050	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0051	Dear fellow congressmen, my dear President, I salute you all. Our deputy has asked about this before in the House. Of course, in the meantime, you'll agree between the two MPs. He just asked me if the Board had done its duty, and you asked, "Why did you get it?" These are the two deputies of the same party. One MP asks, "Why did you take it?" The other asks, "Did you send it to the Board of Accounts?" Then you'll agree, one of you will ask the question. So I answered, "The Investigation Board does its due." We don't look at which city 77 million people live in Turkey; we look at Turkey as brothers of 77 million. This could be Tripolian, Edirneli, Ardahan, this could be Ardahan. We don't depose him or appoint him based on whose son-in-law he is. If someone has been removed from duty, let's be careful whose son-in-law is removed, and whether or not he's not offended, let him stay on foot. We will not be able to be anti-states in Turkey. It's divisive and ugly to do that in this land, and I'll deny it a thousand times. But after I became Minister -- they just told me about December 17th -- if there are people under investigation, I'll relieve them. And are they all like that? No, they're not all like that, but there are people I work with, and there are people I can't work with. I've seen low performances, better people to work with. I'm sorry, but a person who comes to the ministry makes some changes in his ministry, and when he makes those changes, where is he from? If he's from Tripoli, if he's from Tripoli, you can't call him that, it doesn't make sense.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0160par0055	Mr. Secretary, it's because he's always run into the Tripolians.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0056	I mean, it puts you in a position that other political parties in Turkey once did. When Turkey tries to become a state nationalist, it takes it to a point where it's going to be a separatist.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0160par0057	The Tripolians are not separatists, Mr. Secretary, we Black Seas are not separatists, never.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0058	We seek refuge in God from opposing Tripoli, and I am a man who gave my life for the integrity of this land, for its unity. When I was a kid, I grew up in the hands of the Tripolians. We don't have a grudge against the Tripolians, we love them as much as we do, but if I'm going to change people at the Ministry, I'm not looking where he's from, that's not my priority. I'll check his performance, see if he's got a problem with the law, with the law. The prosecutor's office took the men who were unfit for the KPSS. The prosecutor's office seized them. I can't interfere with the D.A.'s office, but those people he's interfering with, they're from Tripoli, they're from Tripoli. I can't determine that. You're gonna ask the D.A., it's got nothing to do with me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0161par0060	Minister, have you filed a criminal complaint against your predecessor?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0061	Thus, this speech you have made to be pleasing to Tripoli may actually be a pleasant appearance to Tripoli, but for the integrity of the country, it is not the right speech for the country, it is harmful. As far as the scholarship goes, dear friends, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has made a decision. I don't know who got the scholarship, I don't know who didn't, and I don't know where he's from. Where people are from, it's not something we're interested in. We, let alone Turkey, are equipped with ideals like embrace the people of the world. We said: "The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will grant you a master's degree and a Ph.D. scholarship and other institutions will give you secondary school and high school. We need staff, urban experts, environmental experts; they need a doctor and a master's degree. So, we've made a decision: From now on, we won't give scholarships to anyone. To whom? We applied to universities: send students to us. We told Ardahan University, we told Kars University, we told the university: we need a doctorate in the fields we give them, we need a graduate student in the fields we give them. We're going to give the master's degree 600 liras and the doctorate 900 lira scholarships. Now tell me, what's wrong with that? But if these scholarship holders are just from a city, then you have to ask another question: Why is it only from one city? I ask you a question, and you have to say, "This kind of scholarship shouldn't be given from a city. We need to embrace 81 provinces of Turkey, 81 provinces. You should have told me that 180 people would not be from that place. You should have congratulated me for supporting colleges and academics because I was equal to 81 in Turkey because of my service to knowledge. Otherwise, we're not cutting the scholarship, we've changed the direction of the scholarship. Who? Here, we've replaced this Ministry with the special people we need. Do we have a problem with Tripoli? We don't have a problem with the people of the world. Let go of Turkey, we are the people of the world who are not troubled. I'm sorry, this sentence, this review, it bothers me a lot. You're writing in five newspapers, because of the hostility of Trabzon, you're writing in the newspapers every day in Tripoli.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0162par0064	I didn't give it to any newspaper.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0065	Does this suit you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0162par0066	I didn't print it, I didn't print it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0067	Is it appropriate for you, Mr. President, to write "Trabzon" in the local newspapers?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0162par0068	I didn't print it, ask the printer. I didn't print it.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0158par0069	You've been mayor, I condemn you. I know that you support and condemn all the newspapers that you've published in my name in the local newspapers. With Tripoli, we have no problem with the 81 provinces of Turkey, all our brothers, our lives, our lungs. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0163par0072	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0164par0074	I want to talk to you about bullying, Mr. President. By separatizing us in the Black Sea, in Tripoli...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0163par0075	What did he say and pick on you, Mr. Canalioğlu?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0165par0076	What more does he have to say, Mr. President? For God's sake, he picked on me.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0163par0077	You'll be patient, you'll be patient, he'll say what he says.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0166par0078	He said that I had written in the papers, that I had supported him, that he had lied.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0163par0079	Here you are, Mr. Canalioğlu. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0166par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Secretary here, with a temper, we said, why did you cut these? Come out here, tell me, brother, there's a review board report. I've made a written question proposal, answer me, and say: I've given these to the inspection, so they've done this, this, and that's why I got it. Okay. I've come, we've cut the children's scholarships, we've cut them off for this reason. Tell me that. There's no point in coming here to be hacked, to do the destruction of Erzurum, Dadaş. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] One second, Tripolin...
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0167par0087	We played sports, we played sports, we played ball together.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0166par0088	I'm Brother, I'm Çirçer. There's no point. Second of all, the Tripolians have never been divisive.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0167par0090	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0166par0091	The Tripolins were the first in this country's Battle of Salvation; they were at the forefront of those who met Ataturk in Samsun. Ataturk said that when I first went out to Samsun for the first time, the people who greeted me had the heroic Tripolins on the front line. He said, "Ataturk said that."
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0168par0092	What's that got to do
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0166par0093	Mr. Secretary, there's no point in being upset here. Come, tell me, these, these... well, then did you give the Minister before you an inspection? Have you ever investigated or filed a criminal complaint before you? If this is what our former Home Minister did, what did you do, Mr. Secretary? Have you filed a criminal complaint against the prosecution? Did you make a statement here, yes, or did you give a statement? What you gave the commission proposal, you had to -- please -- explain it. I condemn you. There's no need to get angry. You, who run the government, will be calm. And I've never been in the papers -- and I'm saying it loud and clear -- and I've never been in a position to pump it and press it against you. I want you to know that, too, and find out who the local press in Tripoli is supporting. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0169par0097	Thank you. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 1st draft of the current bill. Its m.s.e.,...up to three times the number of the ibares.... We demand that it be replaced to one level. Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı S. Nevzat Don't Fear Mehmet Günal Ali Halaman Ali Longırmak Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0170par0109	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0169par0110	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0171par0111	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0169par0112	Yes, Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0172par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good evening. Of course, when our Tripoli MP defended the rights of his own countrymen, he made a claim here. Mr. Secretary has come out to answer the claim, and while he's making his defenses, we've really noticed two things. One: he said that the bureaucrats we had removed from the mission or the people we were investigating were not KPSS. Second, he said that almost all of the students who were given scholarships were from one province. So, now, we're following this as the National Movement Party. Here, you have made two very serious claims about the administration before you. We'll follow you as a nationalist movement party, Mr. Secretary, in the political sense of what you're going to do with this administration. Dear friends, land ownership is a matter of great interest in independence and future. Sir, whoever has the government has the seal, Sultan Süleyman. Therefore, it doesn't matter who owns the land. You can say, "It's not, precious MPs." If that were the case, all countries would not have brought some restrictions on the buying of land for foreigners. International law, which now has brought serious mechanisms for the repossession of this land. So, sir, tomorrow the power changes, and this property changes hands again. A thought like that is completely wrong. Are countries schizophrenic or psychotic, and they bring these obstacles? I guess they know something. However, only the Justice and Development Party sees the sale of these lands as a means of profit, a means of income. Other than Turkey, I suppose there is no land-selling regime so easily in another country. Like the heir son, the Justice and Development Party is practically selling its land. Look, there's no one in this House who doesn't know that Israel was built by buying land from Jews, Arabs and Palestinians. I'm giving you the numbers, my dear friends: between 2003 and 2013, 247,384 foreigners were sold to about 250,000 foreigners, about 190,245,84 square meters of unmovable property. Almost one-fold land sale in the history of the 90-year-old republic. For twenty-nine or forty-nine years, this is 150,000 square kilometers -- 17 per cent of Turkey's area -- has been given the right to run the minefield. Today, the land is being sold at such a rate that at least seven counties and 11 counties have exceeded 10 per cent of the limit, over 1 million square metres of land sold to foreigners. Among these provinces, sir, Mugla, Antalya and Ankara follow as the first three cities; Hatay, İstanbul, İzmir, Mardin, Aydın, Kırşehir, Bursa, Adana, Nevşehir, Kayseri and Kahramanmarash as other cities. What did the AKP do when that was the case? Did the AKP develop a measure, or did it create a measure? No, he went crazy to sell the land more. All the laws he's made have been lifted. What are they? He lifted the terms of reciprocity, removed the basics of reciprocity. Sir, the 10 per cent limit is actually removed from the verbia, with the right to purchase 30 hectares per person, 300 acres of land. Sir, there's also been an opportunity to sell the settlements in the villages to foreigners. The condition for the purchase of land to be used as a business and residence has been removed, so agricultural areas have also been set up for sale. In the face of these sales, sir, I have to ask: why did the AKP go mad and fall into such a state of sales? He's desperate, he has to, because he's trying to get away with selling his financial deficit. It's not a road, it's a product, it's a sweat, sir, it's a reminder that we need to build an economy, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0173par0125	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- This Law is in effect on the date of its publication, which is valid from 22/5/2014. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0174par0132	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This bill creates legal infrastructure for return capital fees from services provided by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. An adjustment to return capital fees has been made, but no changes are being made from return capital revenues to additional payments to personnel. The deed and the Kadastro staff work under high risk and responsibility in a busy working environment. A lot of work is done with outnumbered personnel. Taking into account the work and responsibilities of the deed and the cadastro personnel, the rights of identity must be improved. Employees of the deed managers and cadastro administrations ignore the concept of overtime to finish their work, working late. That way, the overtime staff should be able to get the overtime they deserve. In this regard, the amount of work paid by the Ministry of Finance employees to the rural agency by the Council of Ministers must also be paid to the Tapu and Kadastro employees. Although the deed and the Kadastro staff have done stressful and exhausting work, they have unlimited legal responsibility for their operations, as they do not receive the wages they deserve. There is no statute of limitations on this financial responsibility. There are no mistakes. They say that a deed worker has to be a perfect servant. According to Article 1007 of the Turkish Civil Code, the state is responsible for all the damage due to the holding of its title, and the state is condemning this damage to its employees. Under this clause, the employees of the deed office are responsible until the end of the day for their misdeeds. Due to this responsibility, large prices are being paid, and there are several million liras of deed employees who have been tried for wrongdoing in the past. The employees of the deed office are bookkeeping their day-to-day transactions when they go home in the evening. Whether the deed workers retire or die, their responsibilities are not over, the cost of their mistakes and mistakes in their children and grandchildren is inherited. I mean, the bill for mistakes and mistakes is collected from their heirs a few generations later. Therefore, the deed workers advise their children to refuse. If the children do not reject the legacy, they may one day face a large debt from his father or even his grandfather. Although responsibility for the damage done in each profession is linked to a timeout period, for example, notaries in similar cases have had a five-year statute of limitations, but no statute of limitations have been set for the property officer's financial responsibility. Such a problem must be resolved in such ways as the timeout of the Turkish Civil Code of Tapu cadastro employees from Article 1007, the payment of the damage from the wrong transactions by a fund from the property transactions, which will be created from return capital fees, which will be covered by professional responsibility insurance. In last year's collective contract talks, the government agreed to provide a solution to this problem, but has not yet gone to organise it. This bill does not include such an arrangement. The government must fulfill its promise at once. The National Movement Party is ready to give the necessary support and contribution to the drafting of the arrangement that the deed workers have been waiting for for for years. Dear MPs, the bill is authorised by the Council of Ministers to reduce the return capital fees from the services offered by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate to half or triple. There's no explanation, there's no explanation for the power to increase return capital fees threefold. This is an epiphany of Mad Dumrul. Our citizen has already invested a lot of money in the land administrations because of the purchase, as well as the return of money to the capital. Moreover, the amount of tax, tuition, and return capital paid by our citizens has increased greatly due to increased land allowance rates, increased property tax values by municipalities. These taxes are hurting the citizen. For example, this year, there has been an increase in property tax values in the province of Conium Seljuklu, which has reached 10 times the level of unfairly. Those who knocked on Seljuklı City Hall's door to pay property taxes were surprised at what they were facing in the face of the exorbitant, raised tax. My dear friends, do you ever get 10 times the tax increase? But it did. It's hard to imagine how a small and fixed-income citizen would pay for it. The AKP mentality, in this way, is officially robbing the citizen. When inflation is 9 to 10 per cent, there is no justification for increasing the value of real estate at a rate of up to 1,000 percent to 10 times higher. Increases in tax, tuition, and return capital should be reasonable, and any increase must be accounted for. I've done it, I've done it. Your understanding must be put to rest. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, due to some miscalculations and findings as a result of the cadastro work to establish the deed's record, our citizens face serious casualties. Our citizens are having problems with the deed to their property, complaining that their property has been taken away from them because of the treasure and the writing of the land that their ancestors had used for many years. Imagine, my dear friends, you have a field, you have a home, you have a garden; your grandfather used it, your father used it; you used it; you will leave it to grandchildren; one day, my brother; this is a treasure place, this is a forest, this is not yours. It's called a court path for the citizens. Mr. Secretary, both the deed and the finance and the forest administration must address the problems of our citizen's property; their victims must be resolved. Dear lawmakers, another problem with the property of our citizen is that low value assessment of publicisation activities is that there are major discrepancies and discrepancies among the values appreciated. When the AKP takes the mentality, it scoops it up and gives it with a spoon. All of our villagers, including Bolat, Dereici, Dedeli, Koralan and Yalinçar, live in the region of the Bağbaşı and Bozır Dam, in the District of Bozır and Hadim. In the process of publicisation, houses, cherry gardens, wells, vineyards, and fields were considered very low and unfair. Both the dam and the road are nationalized in the same region, but there is a gap between the public institutions' nationalization values. The developments are incompatible with justice, and my people are being severely wronged, and they are being persecuted. The citizens who complain about the government's indifference only ask for their rights. Government officials do not take the citizens' complaints to the fort, they do not make any effort to address their problems. The AKP government must abandon these practices that have victimised its citizen. Appreciation must be done correctly and consistently, and our citizen's rights must be given. Mr. Secretary, the matter of your ministry's residence in the field of responsibility has not been resolved, and the uncertainty remains. The rights of my grandparents, who will be under the dam of their homes, are not granted to those who are single, those who have a place on a barren land, and those who have a short-term transfer of their population records. The housing issue of our grandparents must be resolved immediately, and the victims of rights ownership must be resolved. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0175par0145	Thank you. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0176par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Of course, since we've seen the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism with us today, I'd like to get right to the point with some environmental issues. Mr. Minister, Hilvan district of Şanlıurfa Province, Kahta district of Adıyaman Province, Siverek, Bozova district of these counties and provinces are being handed over to the Ataturk Dam, as it were, and most of the land in that region is being watered down, so it is really passing from the product to the citizens -- infectious diseases. In this sense -- my request from your Ministry -- is that given to the Ataturk Dam in its raw state without decontamination of dirty, wastewaters, the mayors of the Turkish Penal Code 184 have committed crimes in the sense of Article 184, and I invite your Ministry to do so. I'm going to talk to you about the glory of the world... one was the capital of the GAP, not the capital of the Gap, but the capital of the seasonal workers. About two months before the schools close, many of the students there are taken away by parents, taken away as farm workers, taken to Malatya, taken to Yozgat, taken to the Army, brought to Ankara's Polatlı, Haymana. In that sense, our students are truly victims. I'm asking you, as much as possible, to relieve the victims of both parents and students. Look, Mr. Secretary, I've just asked you about electricity... and I'm right over here... and I'm making cotton production in 32.224, citizen, and the fine is $13,180. When you sell the cotton, the total cost of this 32,000 per yard is around 12,000 liras, and when you take into account its fertilizer, its watering, its medicine, its labor. Another example, again, is that there's a cotton field that takes 126,175 and that's 60.992. I'll give you a copy of these after I speak. Now, where do these punishments come from? I'm dealing with friends of lawyers, yes, who may not be your profession, and I respect that. So, as a result, if the electricity companies here -- if you made this tender -- about privatisation, in that condition -- we would have cut off a Council of Ministers' decision to support citizens from the source. If such assurances were given to the state's support for citizens, we would have been able to cut it from the source. Perhaps it would have been published in the 28936th edition of the TDAŞ newspaper, in accordance with a higher figure of electricity management there, the third party would have entered the tender, but it would have been more comfortable if it had not been shown in the condition of the state's vault, and it had been sold cheaper because your signature had not been issued, and it had been issued in accordance with the decision to the decision of the European Council of Ministers. There is an open sentence in the Law of Appeals and Bankruption, and it is said that such supports are not foreclosed on due to the debt of the citizens. Now, in order to overcome the irreparable principle, you have made such a Council of Ministers decision. This Council of Ministers decision, in fact, victimizes all the Jaffa, the Mardinns, the Gaziantepli, the Siirtites, all of them in that area. My request from you is that no one take his money from you. It is a public service, not a public service. Here's the thing: they've made the land thirsty look juicy. The price of the watery land is high, the water is low. Your officers who did this went into business and action with them. Come on, let's make a diagnosis, where most of your watery landscapes are dehydrated. If any of your deputies are involved in this, their land is included. I'm being so assertive. So it's really a victim of both the state and the citizen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The only way to get rid of it is to make a positive identification. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0177par0161	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. Süleyman Nevzat Kork won't be afraid to speak on behalf of the National Party of Action on the matter... no. The People's Party of Cumhuriyet MP Haydar Akar has asked for a vote on behalf of the People's Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0169	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, under the 3rd Amendment. Now, where do I start, ten minutes or five minutes, but it's not gonna last ten minutes, I think, because it's not gonna be enough, because it's just because of the fact that he's got a lot of problems with the environment, and even though Prime Minister Alexei showed Turkey a model city, it's blackened, it's brown sea, and it's famous for the sea where fish don't live. Now, I'd like to talk about an Abyssian who's been brought up in our mountains and mountains, with chestnuts, limes, and the cherry trees that are still in the vicinity drying. But before we get to that, I was talking about an ammonia tank, and because time was limited, I couldn't explain this ammonia tank very much. Again, a friend of yours, in his statement in the city, asked if Haydar Akar lives in this town, or do we live in this town? I am very curious, that my friend Erzurum came from Erzurum and settled in Hoseli, but his head is still in Erzurum, and he doesn't bring up much of what he has to do with him, but he opposes us only in Ableeli, expressing his problems, and trying to oppose us at KosheIeli, rather than trying to solve the problems of Hoseli. Now, friends, again, the area where most of our citizens died during the August 17, 1999 earthquake was the Gulf region. The Gulf region is a region that is really on the bomb; here we are talking about the tanks of TIPRAS, tanks of other facilities, and, by the way, a district in which the fertilizer factory, the UGSAS, the ammonia tanks, are abundant, which has moved into the settlement, and the population is close to 100,000. I just gave you a sample again, there's a factory there, and it uses ammonia in fertilizer production. A 300 cubic metres of ammonia is enough for him. We're looking to see if this factory is building new facilities, making new investments, creating new jobs; it's not doing anything like that, but it's getting a CED report for a 37,200 cubic metres of tank permits; the CED is being given a positive assessment report. Mr. Secretary, when you received this report, you asked for an opinion from the Alexandria Governor's office, and you said: "There is such a demand to the Governor's office: how do you assess this request from the GÜBRETAŞ factory in the Gulf region?" A deputy governor from the Yupeli governor's office responded to you, saying that there is a very busy housing area in the area of E5 highway, 50 meters to the highway, 350 meters to the highway today -- which is the same area where the commute has not changed. That's why your ammonia tanks are being gased into the ammonia tank, where they're liquefying, liquefying, liquefying. Meanwhile, it was said that a gas leak that could occur in the transfer and during this process would damage people in a huge amount -- 1 to 850-percent expansion coefficient -- that people in that area were forced to leave the area, and they were alerted not to enter the area by the governorate. With the TUPRAS fire, it was decided not to enter the area against the gas leak, and people lost their lives because there were no rescue efforts. Now, a tank this dangerous, a 300 cubic meter tank like this, is built into a tank that's 37,200 cubic metres, really a bomb. Now, the first deputy governor tells you that there's no way that this tank is going to be built here, it's going to do a lot of damage to the environment. God forbid, when we're in danger, we'll kill Gulf County altogether. It may not be so clear, but it says negative for you. Then, three months later, the Ministry of Environment didn't ask for an opinion, another deputy governor says, "Sir, if necessary measures are taken, that tank can be made." Now, I think, what is the necessary measure? Either you evacuate those settlements, or you remove the land roads, or you remove the railroads from there, that's the proper measure. But there are no necessary precautions. And yet you didn't ask the public. Fifteen days after these three months of writing, you gave CED a positive report, saying you could build this tank. Now, I'm curious, what opinion, what basis, what criteria did you give it, why did you give it? Does the industry in Turkey really need this tank, or did you buy a facility in Iran that produces ammonia and transfer ammonia to Turkey to various parts of Turkey and give it to commercial activities? I'm really curious about that. Surely Turkey needs these facilities, but when we build these facilities, what do we have to do again, so that we don't have to face the incident we encountered in the August 17th earthquake? We need to let this be built somewhere far away from the environment. But what do we do? We allow it in the middle of town. I'd like to ask you to review this matter immediately. Seriously, let's not get all sore like Soma. We are a city that lives in an earthquake belt, living in an earthquake zone, in an earthquake zone. God forbid, when we face such a great disaster tomorrow, thousands of people die, hundreds of Soma. So I'd like to ask you -- I'll give you the information about the earthquake in a moment -- to review that issue. Now, really, friends, it's a city that's been victimized. After the August 17, 1999 earthquake, 3,756 buildings remain damaged. It's very important... Don't give me five minutes! That's none of your business, though. 9.971 dwellings are now medium-damaged, and all of these dwellings have tenants, friends. Maybe a few of them have landlords. All of them are tenants, and about 70 percent of them are students, from other cities, and your children, your children, your children, live in this city, in these medium-damaged buildings. Every year, when we go to a memorial at Lakecuk, we say that the measures will be taken, that these mid-damaged buildings will be destroyed as soon as possible, that they will be carried out within the framework of urban transformation, but you won't put a nail in the body. It's a shame, it's a sin. He doesn't deserve this. The day after tomorrow, when we face a catastrophe, it can cause much greater deaths. It's just that he's from Bigeli? Look, according to official records, 17,480 people have died, 23,781 have been injured, 500 have been injured, but do you know where the urban transformation project is being implemented? To the vacant lot. You're doing an urban transformation project on military land, military land, military land, and an urban transformation project in the area of the fair. There was a burning mall, the Van MP's brother's mall. There he was allowed to build 10,000 square metres of construction by applying urban transformation, and they made it official. That's how the City Hall operates the urban transformation. I still say it's a shame, it's a sin, and I say look at this. That's why when I'm standing here yelling for Alexei, your MP goes into town and says he doesn't live in Haydar Akar Koseli. Haydar Akar spends twenty-four hours in Marseilles. Haydar Akar doesn't go to another country on summer holidays. Haydar Akar is also spending his summer vacation at Avevile. I'm trying to bring as many problems as I can. Why am I trying to bring it in? It is not really a city to be set as an example because we also have the most indebted city municipality in Europe, not Turkey. They'll say, "It's from the Home Dam."
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0179par0182	That's right, that's right, that's right, it's from the CHP.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0183	It's not, it's not. Cut the crap! You're gonna come up here, you're gonna talk like a lion. You don't have to say it from there every once in a while.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0179par0184	It's from CHP, right.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0185	We own 5.4 trillions, we own them like lions; you have the European record for 13.8 quadrillion. What did you do but bug flowers? You'll never talk.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0179par0186	It's from the world's most indebted municipality and CHP.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0187	Yes, thanks to you, the most indebted municipality in the world. You don't do anything other than flowers and morning breakfasts, you don't do anything in the Gulf, you don't do anything in the Gulf, you don't do anything in the Gulf.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0180par0188	Why did they vote on March 30th?
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0189	Yeah, I'll explain why they voted a little later, if I had a little more time, if he didn't point there, I'll explain it to him. He's being neglected. He is receiving government investments in the 70th and 80th place. I'm asking you to help me solve these problems instead of criticizing me, and I'll thank you for helping me with the education problem. Look, when Fikri became Chairman of the Light Commission, for the first time, he was appointed a thousand teachers. Each year, when a Bayburt grows, there is a need for new classes, new teachers. We're brave enough to say that, but I don't think it's right to make sense of what you don't do here.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0181par0191	You'll see what's done.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0178par0192	I give you all my love, my respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0182par0194	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. In accordance with Article 86 of the Civil Charter, Aytuğ Atcı wants to express the color of the game and to speak against it. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0183par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, your government seems determined to build a nuclear power plant for Mersin. You're new to the mission, but since the day you arrived, as Minister of Environment and Urbanism, you haven't had a problem with that. Now, building a nuclear plant somewhere could be the government's savings. I have a majority of fingers, I can do whatever I want. He can say, "It's not going to fit us, but he can say and say." But to do what he wants, according to international agreements approved by your government, the environmental impact assessment report must be positive. Okay. The firm came and presented you with a CED report, Mr. Minister, and said: "Hey, Minister, this is my CED report. This is my CED report. Why shouldn't the nuclear power plant be installed from this podium? Why shouldn't Turkey need nuclear power, how can we meet energy needs, the growing Turkey needs energy; we've explained it to you in numbers. You didn't listen to us. And the next thing you know, you canceled the CED report, you turned it down. We were delighted to say: "Good, good things are happening. I have written to you and to your ministry, and I have asked for the answers given to you by the Law on Information. You told me: "No, I won't give them to you, go ask your own institutions. I wrote to 54 institutions, Mr. Secretary, and I wrote to 54 institutions and organizations using my rights in the same law. I said: "Will you send me the report that the Minister of Environment and Urbanism asked for from you?" Most of them didn't even answer. I filed a complaint. Some of them said, "Go get the answer from the Minister of Environment and Urbanism." I said, "He sent me to you." And he says, "No, go and get it." Some of them said, "I gave you the answer, but I'm not sending you the answer." I'm about to announce these institutions, Mr. Secretary, and you're going to lose your mind. And some of them said, "What about me, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, I will ask the Minister if I will give you the answer I gave you." What law is it written in, Mr. Secretary? I'll tell you one by one. Look TÜBITAK, the Turkish Scientific and Technical Research Agency says: "I won't disclose my report." Mr. Minister Boğaziçi University Institute for Earthquake Research says: "I won't give you my report on where to build a nuclear plant." It's clear, I'll send it all to you. The Department of Development, the Undersecretary of Treasury, says: "I will not show you my report." What in God's name are you hiding? Why are you hiding these reports from the public? It's not a state secret. I can't reach any of this. I'm saying: I wonder if TÜBITAK came to his conscience, and told you, Minister, it's not good to build a nuclear plant here, children get cancer. If he did, you'll have to explain to me or the Kandilli Observatory, Mr. Secretary, there's an Ecemis fault line here. The Minister of Energy is trying to build a nuclear plant here, he's getting the plague, so don't get involved. I discovered a new fault line here. This fault line is moving, there'll be an earthquake, and you'll be subjected to the plague. Did he say that? That's what I want to know, that's what the people of Mersin want to know. Did the Treasury Undersecretary, Minister of Development, say that if a nuclear plant is installed here, agriculture will end, tourism will end, fishing will end, people will become poor? Why did you return the CED report, cancel it? I don't know, I'm the MP of this town, and I don't know why you returned this CED report; I have a right to know. On behalf of 1,100,000 voters there, 2 million people, you are obliged to give this information to the city's MP. You have one more obligation: you have received the 2nd CED report. I'm out of doors, and you're not giving me the 2nd CED report. Now, I'm referring you to my people, and I'm telling our people that the Minister of Environment and Urbanism is hiding everything from us.
tbmm-2014-06-03sit06spe0184par0206	Thank you. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (June 4th 2014) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (June 4th 2014). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
