tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. We're doing the ninth round today, according to the schedule. The ninth round includes the National Defence Ministry, Defence Industry Undersecretary, Youth and Sports Ministry, Sports General Directorate, Higher Education Credit and Yurts Agency, Finance Ministry, Finance Administration Chairman, Public Relations Agency, Privatisation Administration Chairman, Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency budgets and final accounts. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. Now, I'm going to read the 2nd article of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act: MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 442,586,345,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras, including 7.789,211,000 Turkish liras, 45,894,085,000 Turkish liras, and a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) is a total of 3,212,692,000 Turkish liras, including 3.1942,33,000 Turkish liras in the editors and auditory institutions on the table. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II) is estimated to be 55,964,000 Turkish liras, as shown on the table marked by this Law (F).
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0002par0052	Mr. President, why did you read this? There are ministry budgets here. Mr. President, there's no need to read this. You have ministry budgets, you start negotiating, you start off in the wrong place.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0053	Yes, because of the income budget, sir. In the ninth round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Koray Aydın, Libzon MP; Ali Uzırmak, Aydın MP; Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0003par0056	Mr. President, I asked you something. Aren't you listening to me? You're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0057	I'm listening, sir. I'm reading names here.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0003par0058	No, you did it wrong. Now, you weren't going to go into the income budget, you were going to start with the Ministry of Defense budget.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0059	...Bilent Belen, Tekirdağ MP. Turhan Tayan, Bursa MP on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Mustafa Moroğlu, İzmir MP; Erdoğan Erkur, İstanbul MP; Osman Kapak, Antalya MP; Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP; Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP. Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Özdal Threeer, Van MP; Demir Çelik, Mud MP. Şümuz Ünal, İstanbul MP for the AK PARTI Group; Suat Önal, Ottoman MP; Osman Yaşın Bak, İstanbul MP; Osman Çakır, Düzce MP; Vedat Demiröz, Bitlis MP; Zeki Aygün,Yeküleeli MP; Ekrem Çelebi MP; Abdulkerim Gök, Şanlıurfa MP; Ferağüz Ün, Günhane MP; Metin Künk, İstanbul MP. On behalf of the individuals, Mehmet Ali Okur, MP of Kopeeli and MP of Ali İlk, Kütahya.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0004par0064	Mr. President, I said something to you. Now, you've got this all wrong. You went in here with the ministry budgets, you read the whole budget numbers, you got it wrong, admit it. Are you deaf? We're talking to you!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0065	We had them read it because the revenue budget was on this tour, and then, after the negotiations are complete, we'll vote.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0004par0066	No, you're doing it wrong because you don't know, and the people next to you are making you do what they say.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0001par0067	Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the first word is Koray Aydın, Congressman of Tripoli. Mr. Aydın, come in. Your time is 12 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0005par0071	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Defense Department and the SHP Group on the 2015 budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear friends, the Turkish Armed Forces are the foundation of our country's defence and security. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, our army is a steeled expression of Turkish unity, Turkish patriotism, Turkish power and ability. The funds, supplies, weapons, and ammunition that are reserved for our army are of course important, but more important are human resources. The most powerful weapon in the world is the smart, healthy, moral person who's willing to die. It is vital that our soldier's spirit and material needs be met in order to have a high moral and competitive spirit. We've said many times before that the regulations for the rights of military personnel, each time facing a number of sections, have not been able to achieve justice, even if partial improvements have been made. The issue of military personnel' rights with patched-up logic has made it impossible. Today our officers are unhappy, our petty officers are desperate. Petty Officer and administrator suicides are a source of conscience, a source of infinitivity in society. In connection with the problems of the petty officers, the motions for research to Parliament have been rejected by the ruling group's votes. The problems of our veterans, our veterans, our veterans, our civil servants, our veterans, are piled up like mountains. Thirty years ago, under the conditions of that time, the Specialist Private Law is now behind the times. It is time for this law to be changed in bulk, but it must be resolved immediately with sub-laws arrangements for problems related to military houses and housing that do not require political regulation, permits, transfers, transports, and clothing. On the other hand, solving the problems of our military pensioners and veterans is as much a duty of loyalty as it is a human and conscientious duty. The rights of those who have been cut off from the army by age decisions have been restored, but those who have been cut off from the decrees have been forgotten and have been victimised. For those who are cut off from the army by decrees, the path of judgment is open, but it is actually closed. Last year's regulation against disciplinary sentences allowed the right to appeal to the judiciary, but the arrangement failed to compensate for past victims. However, it is the most fundamental rule of law that regulations are carried out in favor of people. Children of our veterans must also benefit from the public employment opportunities provided for the children of martyrs and maladies. The wages between our veterans must be dealt with, but the problems of leaving the country must be solved, at least in the form of their own green passport. Dear friends, the defence and security policies imposed by the AKP's government today have brought our country to the edge of a cliff, so to speak. As the biggest defence problem facing our country today, activities under the government's peace process are being seen. This has become a serious security issue because what we've been going through recently has given us signs of what kind of problem this could be in the future. In this regard, it must be considered and evaluated. Dear friends, we are surrounded by fire. Syria, Iraq is being reshaped, the only hegemonic force has put this place under new circumstances. Clearly, there is no initiative here for Turkey, the outcast, the outcast, left on the edge, not taken into account; only by using that big sword that was hanging over it, by being pacified, only by becoming a country that welcomes people who run away, the burden of this job was left on Turkey. Dear friends, while this restructuring continues in the Middle East and Turkey stays out of this equation, the main problem is that the steps taken to ensure Turkey's compliance are forced to Turkey by force. We can say: The operation of power today under the description process is not a project of power; it is a project of imposition, and it is a condition where Turkey is pushed to ensure the appropriateness of Turkey to the new structures in the reshaped Middle Eastern geography. Dear friends, today the point of this action, such as the process of solutions, the process of peace, the tears of the mothers, the beautiful, innocent, which everyone would like to hear at first glance, is the point of Turkey. What happened? Dear friends, let's face it, I'm going to apply this policy to the state. When I say "East and southeast," the soldier is imprisoned in the barracks. He was so imprisoned that we didn't take orders even for the man who put the Turkish flag on the stake in his garden. He was put in a position and in a position of inability to intervene. The police were also imprisoned in the police station, only in social situations where they were pushed into a position that was water-squeezing, gas-throwing, and trying to ensure security. I mean, it's been transformed into a preventive, deterrent position, which manages the situation. Dear friends, the result has been painful. The cities have been handed over to the PKK, and they have been forced to cut roads, make passport checks, surround the areas where he declared autonomy, and control the entry-and-existence of the state force has been greatly weakened, and the end has been painful. Because what we went through on October 6th, 7th, I mean, not much, but what we went through a month and a half ago, it dawned on everyone. Dear friends, the events of October 6th or 7th are an example of what Turkey may face in the future; this cannot be underestimated, it cannot be underestimated. Because, as an excuse to Kobani, great events have occurred in our cities, 50 people have lost their lives, and the worst and the most painful of all, have been faced with what we would call an example. The gun fired behind the back of the head of our petty officer, who was pregnant with his wife in Diyarbakır, is an example of how two of our soldiers had been shot from behind in civilian clothing and unarmed in the city, and how they had been shot from behind, armed assault on the deputy police chief and police commissioner in Bingol, the size of giving notice to the state, and how the eyes of those who would have done so had turned. Dear friends, it's unfortunate that 50 people have gone to war, 50 people have lost their lives, and those who have done this work have taken orders, done this, and are about to be warned to the Turkish state, but there is no real interpretation of that. The naked view of this job is that the PKK says to the government, "You sit with us, you deal with us, we agree on everything, and now it's time to make it happen." If the government is threatened, we will return to the street again. There is no reason to raise the crisis with these words, as if it had never happened, as if it had not happened. The Prime Minister tried to say such a word and avoid it. When he told us the steps he was going to take, we returned to the street again. When the threat was made, there was no reason to raise the crisis with these words. Dear friends, it's good to see that everything is happening in front of everyone. The last person on the Imralı delegation, Sırrı Surajya Önder, who spoke to journalists about the agreement given after the meeting, made a very important statement, saying there would be constitutional and legal changes, which the journalists said in response to the question, which included autonomy, which went to general amnesty, which would suggest that Öcalan would be released. We watched it on TV, he gave us TVs out of his own mouth, and we listened to it. So, what do we get out of this? The conclusion is this: Now, between the government and the Imralı in the talks with the Imralı, autonomy is the main backbone of the text of understanding reached between the mountain staff. In addition, with general amnesty, the release of Ocalan (Ecalan) will now be established, and legal and constitutional regulations will be made about all of this. There's no denying that because a member of parliament who is in the traffic of negotiations has agreed to this in front of journalists, he's agreed to it, he's agreed to it. By taking the usual route, it won't be possible to hide it. In that respect, we address and say to all our citizens: In this election, every vote in the upcoming election will be given to the forgiveness of Ocalan (Ecalan), and each vote again will mean approval for autonomy, which leads to division of Turkey. In this regard, at such a time as this was being held, the picture revealed to all Turkey with the events of October 6-7, where Turkey would become very troubled in the future. Let's get everybody's head straight, see things from this angle. I salute you all, and wish you all the best in our budget.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0006par0086	Thank you. The second speaker is Ali Longırmak, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0007par0090	Mr. President, thank you. I salute the General Assembly. I've made a commitment to the National Party for Movement on the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Again, my respects to all of you. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the 13th budget of the AKP government. The 13th budget that we've discussed is the first fact in my speech right away to evaluate it as just a budget where numbers are expressed today, with no goals, because the AKP's power has ruled the country for twelve years, so a 10-year-old boy from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, who is the ministry of youth, is now 22 years old. If AKP governments really had a youth policy, if they really had a youth and sports policy and this had been built in accordance with science, today, Turkey, Turkish youth and Turkish sports would be in a very different dimension. Is it possible to say today that you can compete with young people around the world in scientific, health, sports, all areas of the world when you look at the possibilities of youth and the position of youth in the world? Sports show that in many areas. 22 is the most efficient age for a sport, for an athlete, no matter what. When we look at it today, the government is tired, and understanding in the government has become more of a power pragmatism, which provides for the sons of ministers, relatives, and supporters, more than a vision of the future, and everything has been revealed. The Adeta government is moving towards the image of a wealthy country, a family, a dynasty, which lies to each other, denies the bureaucrats, denies the ministers or falls into a tent, and fills a cube of water that saves the ship in a drunken state of logic. Dear lawmakers, it's impossible to talk about success in sports. It is not possible to talk about Turkey's sporting achievement in summit sports or team games. Dear lawmakers, many of our young people who have studied the sport scientifically in Turkey and are planning their own future at this point are in a corner of coffee corners or are unemployed and powerless if they can't get out of the house. I'm asking the Minister: when the Ministry of Youth and Sports was given a number of positions, other ministries were made, and in many areas today, when many national teams were selected athletes in many areas, there were some injustices in the selections, in the future, in how we could create training for them from coaching or national team, in the ministry that became a national team. They happen in team games as well as in individual sports. It's possible to document hundreds of these, and it's been discussed around here. I'm asking Mr. Secretary, why did PE sports colleges open? How many people have been employed in the Ministry of Education, who have graduated from sports institutes, who have studied both scientific studies at these schools and who have come from within the practice? If success is truly to be achieved, it can only benefit from the fact that our children who have done both science and practice are in the field themselves. It's not possible to talk about it today. These children are applying to us every day, and they want us to voice it by conveying their hearing at the point of the torpedo assignments to our assigned staffs. Why are children who graduated from gym school not preferred in the Ministry? So, in a moment, perhaps, the Minister or the speakers from the ruling party who came here will want to talk about the success of the sport. They're going to talk about increasing the number of licensed athletes, but I want to point out one thing: you can only convince us if you're talking about exponential growth and success, not licensed athletes, or you've brought to some injustices in the past of sports county administrations. Now I'm thinking, are they really putting forth effort at the point where they're growing up athletes who are really competitive, and increase your instructions, just as long as the number of licensed athletes increases and we just put this nation to sleep? Are they removed because they don't follow your instructions at the point, and today they're in a corner. Precious lawmakers, one of the strangest issues in Turkey is the policy of athletes and injustices until they reach other than national team selections, although there are some successful athletes and gym education. It's come into such a bad position that athletes with doping come out of athletes. Graduating athletes are being brought to Turkey by brokers and their claims of some irregularities and corruption come to our ears. So Turkish sports is dying today. Our clubs, our clubs in the team games, our sports clubs, our football clubs have become unbearable. What you've all seen yesterday is about 1,370 spectators in a game played by Beşiktaş and Tekkur Rizespor. This PASSOLIG application brings to mind something else. I wonder if this PASSOLIG app has been in the way of other sanctions against the government so there will be no demonstrations against Mr. President. It's got grass in the bells of the clubs. So, I'm making a logic here: Would there be any sanction on this audience if the bleachers said, "Long live Tayyip Erdoğan, long live the AKP government!" It's possible that it wasn't going to happen. Look, one of the most important dangers to Turkish sports has been in the Vanspor-Bergamaspor match. A footballer who saluted a fellow soldier's delight was beaten to death in the middle of the stadium, and the team was barely able to get out of Van. It is the government's responsibility to involve so much politics in sports and not to take measures. The shopping group was taken to the courthouse on charges of coup. Dear MPs, I'm Beşiktas Congresswoman. The market is a different understanding, some people don't understand. The market is hostile, and the market is compassionately supportive at times. The market is a spirit; the market is a station; the market is a philosophy. The market is revolutionary, but the market is not a coupger. Look, how does he get into sports with philosophy? If we had the power to strike, we would have made Beşiktas the champion. He says with a very philosophical stance, the moral value of an action is not the result of action, but the intent behind the action. He says, "When you go to court, we are away for justice," he says. Yeah, he's playing at the mall off-site. Mr. Secretary, we're sorry to hear that you've been so quiet about all this. Are you the Minister of Sports, are you in sports, what's your point of view of sports? Look, the Besiktas Club turns part of its jersey black to express its sadness when Western Thrace is lost -- to live in the atmosphere of mathematics. Can a club that is so in love with the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation do a coup? Is there such an injustice, such an understanding? Why are you freaking out? Why do you fear the bleachers who build philosophy, build logic, want to experience the beauty of sports? It's a spirit, it's a philosophy, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, I have a lot to tell you about TORGAV. TURGEV is a hand that lies on a farm. It means that the foundation is based on the property of its owner, and it is based on its real estate. It is an insult to the Turkish youth... that a family with no economic power yesterday... whose home, its presence, its existence, its existence, is laid down in all areas today... in all areas... in every area... in which the future of Turkish youth has been stolen. From here to the Turkish youth, how many of you have had the resources of their children and their torpedo assignments? Stand up for it, wake up for it, and take a stand. And as the National Movement Party, we say that we are not for the Minister's children, we are for the sons of their country, we are in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and we will be for the children of their ministers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I salute youth with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0008par0109	Mr. President, I've just made a statement about the irregularities you've made. See, Article 1 of the budget law is about expenses, Article 2 is about income and financing. Now, you've read the 2nd article before you've finished the 1st article, before you've finished the expenses. According to what article of the Civil Code, when a clause of the First Amendment is being discussed, it is being transferred to Article 2 before the end of the negotiations of Article 1. What you're doing is against the rules. Sir, I'd like to open a formal debate on the 63rd Amendment.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit01spe0009par0112	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the vice presidents.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit02spe0009par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our ninth round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0009par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our ninth round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the Manisa MP Erkan Akçay is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0010par0007	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the IRS. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, our country is in a state and management crisis. The country's administration is dominated by arbitrary and unregisteredness. Turkey is not governed by its institutions and rules. The AKP's government has no sense of government and governance. We're dealing with a government that's gone rogue, who's lost to a terrorist organization. The main concern of the AKP is to cover up corruption, to waste on the budget. Alo Fatihes, pools, corruption, bribery, zoning corruption, resets, money boxes in the house, money in the shoeboxes, and (tapes) are a reflection of unregistered management. Corruption and bribery have collapsed on the economy and the nation like a nightmare. With the comfort and arrogance of winning the elections for 12 years, the Justice and Development Party has also received the country's title. Through the December 17th-25 process, corrupt ministers, corrupt sons, fellow businessmen, gold traffickers, black money organisers, imaginary exporters, land collectors have been exposed. Corruption and bribery ties reveal a ganged structure. Everyone knows who's in charge of this gang. The AKP has used our country's resources not for the welfare, peace and development of the Turkish nation, but for the enrichment of a handful of rulers and supporters. In this environment, can we entrust the state's budget and income to the government? It's like trusting a cat with a liver. Money can't be entrusted to the Justice and Development Party's power, which has been revealed over the past time, because the way it governs and governs is not transparent, it's not manageable, it's not accountable. I'd like to ask Mr. Finance Minister, what does MASAK do, the Financial Crimes Research Board? Do you believe you've done your part in fighting corruption when corruption and bribery are so open? For example, what did you do about it, despite the fact that the R-61 Study Report of the MASAK, May 13, 2008, provided the organisation of Riza Sarraf, Iran, Arabia, and the Iraqi triangle, as a gold export, as well as drug and smuggling activities? When Reza Sarraf ran your government, did you ever bring up this report? Why was MASAK not ordered to examine the bank manager, who had $4.5 million in shoe boxes in his house, in the face of suspicion of money laundering? SHOULD MASAK not act spontaneously on corruption, bribery, money laundering? After 2008, did you ever search for Reza Sarraf? Have you assigned tax reviews to Reza Sarraf? Why was the vice president of MASAK removed from office on December 17th-25, when he uncovered the money traffic of corruption and bribery ring? Mr. President, I'd like to express my opinion on some of the problems of the Treasury and IRS personnel as part of our budget discussion. Unfortunately, the Finance Ministry is out of work peace and staff is restless. Corporate income expertise, bookkeeping expertise, special exam rights must be re-reserved. The central division between experts must be removed. All career experts working for the Ministry of Finance in central and rural units must be gathered under one roof. Victims of income experts are still suffering from joint trials. 80% of the income experts assigned to the joint examination have left the institution. This suggests that the Ministry is unable to use its resources effectively by losing its trained staff. There are 3,000 additional indicators given to all of the heads of the Finance Ministry, but only the chiefs of staff serving in the country are given 2200 additional indicators, and the staff managers of other ministries who are equal to them are taking advantage of these 3,000 additional indicators, and this problem, which has been in the form of gangrene for nearly 30 years, needs to be resolved as soon as possible. The chief of the Finance School, finance course, and two-year degree in higher education, the officer, must be reconsidered, and other demands of your data preparation control management, roll call officer, collector and executive officers must be considered and considered. It was intended to equalise the fees between the Court of Law No. 666 and the staff of the same or similar staff in the ministries. Some 40-50 points have been split between the members of the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Administration and the staff working at the same title in other public institutions -- assistant manager, assistant manager, specialist, chief -- and that leads to a fee of about 365 lira. Special service rates must be evened for the same titles. Once again, the rights loss or loss of the rights of personnel assigned to financial experts by the Court of Law No. 659 and the Court of Law 657 must be made up immediately when they are appointed to be appointed under Article 68/B. According to the precedents of accounting and national property inspectors, the low duty, authority, responsibility and autonomy rights must be corrected. The service service, which is implemented in all ministries, but is not only in the Ministry of Finance, must also be provided without the central and rural distinction. And finally, all ministries and institutions have two examinations for the competency exam -- for the students and inspectors. However, the right to a test that is qualified only to the tax inspector's assistants leads to injustice. Tax inspectors are taking the competency exam at the end of a process that includes KPSS, institutional examinations, basic education, vocational escorts, and has reached nearly four years in the past three years. Tax inspectors are immediately expelled from their profession when they fail the four-day qualifying exam that ambulances are waiting for at their door. However, there is a great benefit in the Ministry of Finance when auditing and auditing boards such as the Social Security Agency's inspectorship, the BDK's curtailment, the Court's auditing, and the audit boards. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to present to you how much increase is expected in some of the budget revenues predicted for 2015. He expects more than 16 per cent increase in potential and property revenues. Expecting an increase in donations, benefits and private revenues is 24 per cent, an increase in capital revenues is 19 per cent. The lower tax revenues expect an increase in 2015: income tax increase is estimated to be 16 per cent, increase in property and service taxes included by 11 per cent, increase in taxes from international trade and treatments, increase in 16 per cent, increase in stamp tax. Now, in 2015, the economy is envisioned to grow by 4 per cent, while budget revenues are envisioned to increase by 13 per cent. This gives a sign of a raise, indicating the implementation of a tax policy with a raise axis. Now, you're going to predict 4 percent growth in 2015, you're going to expect inflation at 6.3 per cent, you're going to expect deflator expectations at 6.8%, total consumption growth at 3.8 per cent; you expect employment growth at 1.9 per cent; you expect export growth at 7.7 per cent; you expect import growth; you expect import growth at 5.7 per cent, but you expect increase in tax revenues at 12.9 per cent, which is 13.9%. How will that happen, how will that happen? Some conditions are required for an increase in budget revenues. Growth needs to increase, instead of growing, it doesn't. If growth isn't increasing, inflation needs to increase, inflation is increasing, but you predicted 6.3. If growth and inflation do not increase, taxes must increase, we will not increase taxes. If taxes don't increase, privatisation and property sales need to increase; yes, you're predicting an increase in privatisation revenues of up to 12 billion. And if all this is out of the question, the debt needs to increase. The macro developments predicted in 2015 cannot explain the increase in tax revenues. These numbers provide new increases to increase tax revenues and therefore budget revenues -- I repeat. We also say that the budget is an election budget, and we can see that in the increase in some social spending. There is an increase in spending in 2015 by 11.9 per cent, which is nearly twice the amount of growth and inflation. Another remarkable thing is that there have been some very interesting increases in the anticipated fines. One of the most remarkable issues in the 2015 Budget Bill is the increase in fine revenues. A total increase in fine revenues is estimated at 21 per cent, an increase in administrative fines is 40 per cent, and an increase in traffic fines is estimated at 46 per cent. This shows that the government is looking forward to fines for increased revenues in the budget. I'd like to ask from here how and on what basis did you predict the increase in these fines? The other thing is, of course, a lot of numbers on continuous employment, unemployment, growth have been presented in budget presentations since the beginning. In addition to our earlier questions, the question must be made clear by the government, the Finance Ministry: How are you going to reduce unemployment, increase employment? That's one of the unanswered questions. With these thoughts, I would like to wish you all the best of luck in the budget of the Ministry of Finance and the President of the IRS.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0011par0030	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0012par0031	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0011par0032	I'll explain, you weren't here, I promise. Members of parliament, Mr. Youth has had an objection to the procedure of budget talks. I'd like to briefly explain the position of president. As it is known, the talks on the budget are organised in the Constitution, and budget talks on the General Assembly have been implemented in a procedure that has been implemented from a long time ago. In this way, the first day of budget talks, the adoption of talks on the whole budget and final budget law bills is being voted on, and the talks of the budget and final accounts accounts of the institutions involved in Article 1 of each bill are being started in a series of rounds. According to the Constitution, talks on each budget are held, and chapters are voted separately. Today's budget includes revenue budgets. Therefore, Article 2 of the budget bill, titled income and financing, is also open to study and talks. As a result of these talks, the first article and the second article, which is bound by the expense ruler and the income ruler, will be voted out, thus completing the talks on Articles 1 and 2. Other articles of the budget bill will then be opened and voted on, respectively. The practice has thus far been in this direction, and there is no violation of the Constitution and the Civil Code. It's for your information.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0013par0037	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0011par0038	Yes, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0013par0039	Sir, I'd like to discuss this in a manner of speaking. Against...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0014par0040	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0015par0041	Against...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0016par0042	Lehte...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0017par0043	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0018par0046	Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for bringing up the procedural debate. Now, Mr. President, our Civil Charter has been established, according to our Interior Charter -- which is impossible to change -- has been adopted: there is a fundamental law; there is a law that is being discussed over all laws first, the matter is being discussed, the matter is being discussed one by one, and the vote is being voted after the meeting is over. It is not possible to move to the other matter without a vote before the end of the negotiations of one clause according to our Civil Code. In addition, there is no way in our Civil Code that a number of articles of legislation and proposals can be read together and debated on all of them. Now, here's the first part of the budget, the first part of the budget, about revenues and finances. Therefore, we cannot and cannot proceed to Article 2 until the vote on Article 1 is completed. To me, this practice is irregular, and it is against the Civil Law. To make such a mistake in spite of the Civil Code... in other laws, one day, you will read ten articles of a bill, then you will open them all up to negotiation, and that will not happen. Also, Mr. President, I would like to point out that today, in many districts and districts of the People's Republican People's Party, the search is being carried out by a judge's decision, the plates hanging on buildings are being downloaded, the Republican People's Party is trying to disappear as the main opposition party, the political activities are being controlled, and the works of the party are being audited. This is like the implementation of the Democratic Party, which established the Commission for Investigation in 1958. On what grounds is he doing this, the ruling party, is it that much of a dictatorship? Now, he's going to a despot administration, threatening parties. Now, our friend just told me, you're up 41 percent in administrative fines, you're up 46 percent in traffic tickets. You guys know what these administrative fines are? Here, the students are taking a walk, and they're leaving, and they're fined 3,000 or 5,000 liras... by the governors. I mean, Turkey is going to a total dictatorship. Guys, everybody has to do their part. We, the Republican People's Party, strongly condemn AKP's divisive activities to search for our own party, to ban political activities, which would have cost them a lot of money if the people who ruled the state of the Republic of Turkey had given up that mentality. If you remove the conditions for political activity within legitimate ground, you should know that where legitimacy is lifted, it is considered illegitimate, brute force. I warn Erdogan and Ahmet Davutoglu to give up such attempts, and they will eventually regret it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0019par0054	Yes, it's Ramazan Can who's in favor, Kurskkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0020par0057	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I salute the General Assembly. First of all, today, the tenth day, we continue our work. On the first day, talks, talks were made over the entire budget, and after all talks, it was voted to be passed on to the articles. So we moved on to item 1. And then we moved on to the budget of the institutions, meaning income. As a result, we met in the 195th place. Today is the tenth day, the ninth round; in the 195th place, the National Ministry of Defence, in the 196th place, the Undersecretary of Defence Industry, in the 197th place, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, in the 198th ranked Sports General Directorate, in the 205th ranking income budget. Thus, after the complete talks on the entire budget have been completed, the material has been transferred. Although there is a comparison in terms of income budgets and expense budgets, it is in the form of income budgets in the 205th place. The General Assembly is in control of the agenda, the implementation of our presidency, and the previous budget talks, talks have been established as a tradition, and the Commission has raised the issue. In the order of the income budget and the cost budget, the cost budgets are discussed after the clauses are passed, then the transfer and voting of the income budgets, and today, as a result, it has been raised to the 5th article. On the other hand, it is not appropriate for the young man to open up a discussion of procedure and engage in other matters. The implementation of the presidency is appropriate, it says, "This is the point," it states that we are in favor of the implementation of the presidency, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0021par0063	Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a word against my conviction. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0022par0066	Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are the 1st article of the budget law, and the 2nd article is the article that regulates revenues. So far, we've discussed the budgets of the ministries within the scope of Article 1 of the budget talks in the General Assembly, and the negotiations of the ministry budgets have not ended. Today we will discuss the budgets of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Finance and its relevant institutions. After this is over, we'll discuss the income budget. The income budget is organised in Article 2 of the budget law, and it is actually a budget that we should talk about very long. According to the Civil Charter, it is not possible to transfer a substance to another substance without meeting it, but in practice so far, the principle is different, so it has been carried out in this way, but it does not mean that this practice is correct. Yes, the Presidential Court has made such a statement, expressing that this is the way the practices have been implemented so far, but it is the discussion of the income budget after the completion of the spending budgets of all ministries related to the 1st article that should have been discussed. When I was a member of the Plan and Budget Commission before, I made many suggestions to Mr. Sait Akba, chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission of the time. We talk about spending budgets for days, we squeeze in the revenue budget. That's not true. It's a pen that's as important as spending. So I suggest that in the following applications, let's discuss the income budget in the budgets of the years after this by giving us enough weight in a separate round, and that's the right thing to do. How to finance this amount of spending, what taxes will people pay, whether there is an increase in tax burden or not, should be discussed well. Therefore, it is wise to change this course, which has been adopted so far. Secondly, I'd like to address yesterday's attack on the Republican People's Party district buildings, not as part of a procedural debate with the pardon of Mr. President. Based on a court order, yes, it's based on a court order, but this is the first time a political party building has been searched, dear friends. If a political party building judges a decision authorizing police to search the main opposition party's buildings, then there is no division of forces in Turkey. I strongly condemn this practice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0023par0072	Thank you. In favour of my conviction, Mihrimah Belma Kın, İstanbul MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Row.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0024par0076	Mr. President, we're doing budget work in the 24th term. In the 24th term, I think we have the most efficient time in terms of working in the budget. This year, 11th with the organization of four parties' group presidents and officials. We're starting at 00, trying to finish budget work at a reasonable hour. At the point where we're here today -- technically, Mr. President, our member of the group has announced -- the budget is being discussed according to the Constitutional provisions, and there have been some regulations. The Council of Counsellors for this year's work has also established the conditions and shape of the joint signatures of the four parties. Therefore, I don't think there's been any misappropriation in the President's attitude. I repeat the idea that other matters should be discussed later on in the next term. I think we're in favor of the President's position and should continue our work. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0025par0080	Thank you. There's been no change in my attitude based on the statements I just made. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account Now, to speak for the National Movement Party Group, Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0026par0122	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the budget for 2015. I hereby salute you and the beloved Turkish nation who are watching us on their screens. Members of parliament, as it is known, the Public Contracts Act 4734 and the Law on Public Contracts 4735 were issued by the 57th Coalition, which was also part of the National Movement Party in 2002 and entered into force on 1 January 2003. The 58th AKP government, which came to power through the November 3, 2002 elections -- its first work -- has tried to create public opinion with statements about how difficult it is to implement the Public Resignation Act, how difficult it is to make the tender, how the law does not comply with the speed of governments, so that the law must be postponed for at least one year in the history of the law; and in the meantime, it has tried to establish public opinion that the necessary changes can be made, but with the conditions and the resistance of international institutions today, it cannot prevent the law from taking effect. The AKP government's struggle with the Public Contraction Law continues from 3 November 2002 to today. When you can't do a job, the law is very difficult to apply. The duration of the complaint is very long. The most common method is to accuse the law and the institution with excuses such as this. But the main intention is to create their own allies and capital by giving them the contract they want. Therefore, since the Public Contracts Act has been implemented, more than 150 ▪ have been changed so far, and these changes have not been limited to law enforcement, and the regulations and notifications have been changed over and over and over again, and the tenders have now been written down on the tenders, and the tenders submitted to the address have become a simple formality completion ceremony. The Public Contraction Act, so to speak, has been turned into a rat by this time. Congressmans, let's get to the privatisations. The AKP governments, which have been in power since 3 November 2002, have sold like the fathers in AKP's founding philosophy. More than 50 billion privatisation revenues have been made since the day they came into office. With this income, the allies are rich, the poolers are overpowered. TOURK TELEKOM, TEKEL and Turkey's most valuable land and lands have been sold to supporters, poolers, for far less than they're worth. But is Turkey's economy back on track because of this privatisation over $50 billion? I wish he could, but it wasn't the economy to be patronizing. Throughout the AKP's rulings, Turkey's economy has followed a bumpy course and has failed to produce a stable growth. The government and AKP spokesman, who have been speaking in most of their talks, have become miserable since 1924-2002, after 2002, everyone has become rich, the economy is strong, there is no external debt. For some reason, they do not talk about the growth rates before them. Members of parliament, under the European Union integration process, a new institution has been established under the Turkish Trade Act 6102 and the Public Protection, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation (EC) under the Law Code 660. With this decree, Turkey has tried to establish a whole legal structure on independent control, given the authority by the authorities of its institutions to make public supervision to businesses they are concerned with, and the authority to establish independent accounting and control standards. It is correct that the Public Surveillance Agency should observe on behalf of the public, set the standards of accounting and auditing, but the rights to authorise independent auditors and autonomy should not be made by this institution, but should be done by a professional chamber. In accordance with legal regulations, the authorization of independent auditors has been transferred to the Public Surveillance Agency. As of today, there are 9,605 independent auditors registered to an independent audit register authorized by the institution, and 1,055 independent auditors in the process of registration. The most important problem with the audit process is that the area where independent auditors are authorized by the institution can perform their profession is limited. The main reasons for this are the lack of 2,500 companies, including the public benefits of the 2nd Amendment in Article 660; the lack of the control of institutions such as trade unions, development agencies, organised industrial areas, cooperatives; the non-governmental and municipal enterprises that should be involved in independent control. I mean, there's no way to figure that out either. While public and municipalities have a duty to serve the public, to produce services, these institutions will not be an institution of public interest and will not be subject to the audit process. As you can see, the main thing that increases the importance of independent control is the function of providing reliable information. The fact that transparency, clear and understandable information is the most valuable information and that access to this information is possible only by independent control does not result in public positive results, while the fact that the profession is currently being performed in a restricted area. The lack of control causes accidents, catastrophes, deaths, while financial oversight causes economic crises in companies and countries. Therefore, the scope of control must be expanded in all areas. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are envisioned to increase the central management budget revenues for 2015 to 20.9 billion Turkish dollars compared to 2014 to 451.9 billion Turkish dollars, according to the AKP government's latest Central Vadeli Programme. The first requirement for increasing budget revenues is to increase growth. If inflation doesn't increase, taxes are inevitable if inflation doesn't increase. The government aims to increase Turkey's economy by 4 per cent in 2015, while tax revenues are expected to increase by 12.97 per cent. Tax revenues of around 90 per cent of the central management budget revenues in 2015 are estimated to be 427 billion billion and 48 million Turkish liras. In tax revenues, 163 billion and 211 million Turkish liras consist of income and institutional tax, and the rest consist of indirect taxes. To achieve budget goals, the government must increase indirect taxes, such as VAT and TV. This means a raise in consumer substances, which are the source of indirect taxes. In other words, some of the cost of each of the goods and services we receive will go to budget revenues as tax dollars. Precious lawmakers are one of the most important problems in the economy of Turkey, which is the common name of economic transactions and activities that are not officially registered, which are not controlled by public bodies. Today it is estimated that the non-registered economy has increased to 32.2 per cent of its GDP, while non-registered employment has reached 52 per cent. These rates correspond to one third of the national income and require immediate measures. In order to increase revenues, it is necessary to encourage the productive economy, which is also part of the National Movement Party's programme and specifically aims at increasing production and registering the informal economy. Another feature of the 2015 budget is that it is prepared with an election budget approach. Mr. Finance Minister does not accept this approach, but a detailed and comparative assessment of budget costs confirms this approach. For example, social spending was raised to $29.4 billion in 2014, with an increase of $3.5 billion in the 2015 budget to $3.9 billion in Turkish dollars, while social security spending increased to 80.8 billion in response to 17 per cent of the total budget. Other than that, the data provided to local governments, aid from the Finance Ministry budget, shows that the government is preparing the budget with local and regional support through various spending chapters, such as cash, coal, refrigerator, and washing machines, such as cash, coal, and non-investors, from BELDES, Social Aid and Solidarity Fund. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have stated that we will vote for the government's budget for 2015 as the National Movement Party Group to end my remarks, honoring the December 17th-25th week of the fight against corruption and bribery announced by our Turkish nation's President, Dr. State Gardenli.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0027par0137	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Turhan Tayan. Here you go, Mr. Tayan.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0028par0141	Mr. President, Congressmans, I'd like to present to you the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the financial year budget of 2015. I salute the High Council. In an environment off the coast of Cyprus, where Greek Cyprus, Greece and Israel have broken international law, engaged in oil drilling and sharing, illegal migrations are on the rise, drug traffic has increased, energy fights and anxiety, religious and religious conflicts are on the rise, and we're negotiating the Ministry of Defense budget during a alarming course. There are new problems, new risks beyond the usual threat of war. The peace principle can only be fulfilled by the mighty army. Turkey is bound to have strong Turkish Armed Forces. Our strategic position requires that, of course. Turkey is not Switzerland. We cannot tender our defences to NATO, to other organisations and countries. We're not Afghanistan. Under these circumstances, the Ministry of Defence budget must predict high-tech weapons power, to keep a trained, disciplined, moral staff on standby, logistically rich. The efforts of our army, the selfless defender of the Ataturk revolutions and the integrity of the country, are sadly disturbing some of the environments we know. It must not be forgotten that Turkey is this glorious soldier who has given us the independence of the Republic of Turkey. Mustafa Kemal led the Liberation War by the hand of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mustafa Kemal laid down the foundations of the republic after the Liberation War and kept the victorious army in his barracks, calling his comrades either the uniform or the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This democratic stand is a stand by Mustafa Kemal himself at the Salanic meeting of Admission and Terakkin. Congressmans, in our history of democracy, there were military interventions on May 27th, February 22nd, May 21st, March 12th and September 12th. My dear friends, regardless of what these are called, as a result, they are all an intervention by force of national will. In democracy, these interventions are unacceptable, not good coups, not bad coups, not all blows are bad and criminal. The damage is to democracy, to our nation, and to our precious soldier. For the first time in recent years, the Turkish Armed Forces have been massacred by conspiracy, slander and conspiracy. Hundreds of valuable officers, commanders, and 26th Chief of Staff have been imprisoned, discharged from the army, the future of our brilliant troops has been destroyed. Those who wish to end the so-called military custody with these unfortunate schemes have found themselves under parallel state custody, according to their claim. The country has become political, crushed and crushed under judicial guardianship. Members of parliament, history will not forget those who applaud the silences in the face of these painful events, the unjust trial. There's still a cry for our victims at the gates of the Constitutional Court. Congressmans, while all this was going on, your government was the prosecutor of these cases. Your speakers were saying, "What can we do? The judiciary is independent. We can't do anything." You've been walking these roads together. Those who want to put hypocrisy into the military furnace, orchestrate, frame them, leave them vulnerable, instead of independent and impartial justice, are especially protected by special court procedures and legal and justice at this time. Mr. Secretary, members of parliament, the Turkish Armed Forces are demoralized. Now it must be our duty to heal the wounds of this army. The best blow can't be bad. It's not that easy, it's not that simple. Today, the coup has become almost a tuluat, a tabloid. To declare the 26th Chief of Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have lost thousands of casualties in the fight against terrorism, and to accuse the Marketing Group of coups, is to murder the law. It's deceiving to see every democratic opposition movement as a coup, to create perception, to form a regime of oppression under the opposite of coup. The victims of Ergenekon, Balyoz, Poyrazköy and espionage cases want a fair trial, they don't ask for favor, they seek rights, they expect the return of their reputations, lost rights and futures. Now, this request is an opportunity for those who say they're against the coup. The High Assembly must make this extradition. The bill we made as the Republican People's Party is open to everyone. The rights arrangements for certain periods must be fully considered. Victims must be eliminated from beginning to end. Congressmans, since we don't have enough time, I'd like to briefly dismiss some issues. On the basis of the budget, we would like to point to the improvement of the rights of our senior officer, the wishes of our fallen families, the expectations of our veterans, the efforts of our Armed Forces to achieve modern weapons, the speed of the missile defence system. We'd like to point out that the law on Badelli soldiering is unfair, causing inequality. In accordance with the principle of social state and equality, we have made it very clear that young people with no power would benefit from this law without paying the price, but we have not been able to explain it. The public conscience is bleeding on this issue. With these feelings, I salute the High Council. I wish the budget well for our country and the Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0029par0153	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0030par0154	Mr. President, our former Minister of Defense said there was no state left in the southeastern. We're inviting him to a Şırnak, so I'll take him for a walk.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0029par0155	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the second speaker is Mustafa Moroglu, İzmir MP. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0031par0159	Mr. President, lawmakers, we've been talking about budget costs and revenues for days, first the Plan and Budget Commission, and now the Parliament for 2015. And what we're interested in today is the budget of the National Department of Defense. And I'm going to try to express the opinion of our group on the budget of the Defense Industry Undersecretary within the National Department of Defense. But before I talk about it, I wanted to point out that today, December 19, 1978, should be remembered by the House and the importance of remembering today's national defence. Because between December 19th and December 26th, 1978, some of the citizens of this country faced an attack that killed 150 people in Kahramanmarash, where 150 of our citizens lost their lives and more than 200 were injured. And the massacres, which began with this, continued with some forces within the state that were still unexplored today, with Sivas. If the people who run this country, the politicians of this country, all the citizens in this country, don't learn to create equality, justice, rights, and to live together instead of being hostile to each other, I want to start by telling you that no matter how much money you spend on national defense, technology, or arms, no matter how much you invest in the Defense Industry Undersecretary to develop technology, no matter how much you invest in the defense of this country, remember that the real foundation of this country's defense is through the unity and unity of citizens. I need to remind you that one of the main duties of the House is to oversee how the public budget is being spent on taxes, and that the budget rights are one of the most important rights of citizens. It is necessary because since it is one of the most important tasks of the Assembly, we, the opposition, all the MPs, in light of what we've heard from our citizens, and based on the information we've received from various cases in our country, we'll address power, I.E., the errors in using this budget, we'll ask questions, we'll get answers, if possible, by means of our citizens, who are not afraid of your pressure, we'll get them to listen through media organizations. So we're gonna ask, and the power's gonna answer. But in the budget talks we've been in the House so far, when the AKP's deputies answer all the questions asked in our previous talks, instead of power, instead of asking, I'd like to say that we have failed to carry out this mission, as long as it is based on defence instead of asking, rather than answering. So I'd like to continue to talk about the answers to these questions so our citizens can hear them, because we've all seen to it that your AKP MP friends have never bothered to listen to us to see if there's an assignment in this audit. When we review the Court reports on the Defence Industry Undersecretary's budget, I'd like to point out that there are three failures in the Court reports, three errors related to the budget that the Defense Industry Undersecretary needs to spend. First of all, the Defense Industry Undersecretary is obliged to use about 2 per cent of the Defence Industry Support Fund's budget, which is given to him, but -- let me put it to you in a language that our citizens understand -- you have to keep in this account how much this budget is spent on investments. If it is kept in that book, the Court has the right to see, to see, very clearly, what the budget is being used correctly, what years it is being used in the investment, and who it is given to. But it's not kept here, it's kept in other books to hide, which should not be looked at at at all. He detected this malfunction and told the court that it should never be done like this again, in his reports. The second failure is that the budget for the Defense Industry Undersecretary is around 43 million, which corresponds to 2 per cent of the total Defence Industry Support Fund. Part of this 43 million is being spent on investments, and some of 33 million, 34 million are being used for staff, the Defense Industry Undersecretary. But he was faced with something that the Undersecretary of Defense Industries had to meet his staff by spending 60.5 million dollars on other firms, Defence Technologies and Engineering Anonymous. So on the one hand, the service was taken from 654 members of the Defense Industry Undersecretary at 30 million, while the 654 was paid for it, with about 60.5 million spent on 139 personnel. The Court reports also noted this malfunction. Of course, a malfunction like this caused a third malfunction. The budget is not enough, of course, but the budget that you received 2 per cent of the Defence Industry Support Fund is not enough to cover these staff and service purchases. This time, he spends more money than he should spend, triple it, and this is the third malfunction in the Court reports. My dear friends, in all matters involving the Turkish Armed Forces, the National Ministry of Defence, when every bill came up, we made significant efforts to address inequality, injustices, and our friends in the Turkish Armed Forces know that the Republican People's Party has made a compromise in resolving these inequalities and injustices. But in very important matters, we've never seen an approach that would satisfy any inequality. One of the most important of them was the resen pensioner we all knew about. We'll keep saying that about everything. I hope that this House will return the rights of our citizens, who have been expelled from the army, and will be granted their rights before the end of our time, and in the future of the drafts of the law, which will be passed on to us in January. Now, there's an escape route: 100 Turkish liras are paid, and they're supposedly given the right to pay compensation for these friends. I'm asking them to know that what they want is not just money, but that what they really want is to be exempted from wrongful expulsion, that their reputation must be restored. I hope we can solve this problem. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0032par0168	Thank you. The third speaker is Erdogan Erk, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0033par0172	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, first of all, I would like our budget to be a blessing, and I would like to salute you all. When I was on this stand, I wanted to express the achievements of Youth Sports, run by the Department of Sports. So I would like to continue the legend of the 12 giant men they took from the past as they came here, to praise the success of the Sultans of the File, to continue the praise of the Third Turkish national team, to explain the success of the number of medals we received in the world. But, my dear friends, you ran a Sports Ministry so you took 12 Giant Mans, you made 12 Giant Mans into dwarfs. You've taken the Sultans of the File, the Sultans of the File are not around. You've got the 3rd World Football Team, which is currently unable to pass the qualifiers. The number of successes in the world, the number of medals in 2004, the number of medals in 2004, the number of medals in 2008, the number of medals in 2008 and the number of medals in 2012, the number of Turkish sports -- there's no point in which we can thank you for your success. So I'd like to continue this conversation by showing you a little bit and telling you a little bit about the mistakes you've made. My dear friends, let me tell you, do you know what this is about? You've infected sports with politics, you've conducted the federation elections in the Prime Minister's corridors when talented people should have come to the management of sports. In that case, failure in sports was inevitable. Now, I'd like to ask my dear friends, is the structure of the Federation possible for success now? It's not. Today, UEFA used to go to UEFA with one set of direct and one less pre-elections, but if you look at the point where Greece got one more point, the Turkish national team would not have been able to compete directly with the federations in Turkey. Why? Because you've brought the federations to such a point that you've never given any federation the right to live on your own terms. Back in the day, people used to watch games with pleasure at the head of television. Is he watching right now? No. Why? Because there's a rapid decline in football right now. Look at the bleachers, they're empty. Why are the bleachers empty, guys? Because you got PASSOLIG. What's PASSOLIG? It's an app from underdeveloped countries. Where in the world is PASSOLIG? Argentina has one, nothing like it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0034par0176	What is the status of Argentina in football?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0033par0177	So why did we bring this between the audience and the football player? Why did we bring it between an audience and a football player and put something called PASSOLIG? There's no app in the world. Those who ruled this country, the federations removed fences in the bleachers until they came to you, but today you brought them back and put the fences back in. What happened? You've kept young people out of sports. So, what happened to the boys who got cold feet from the sport? My dear AKP MP friends, bonzai has increased, youth has increased to drugs, 300 per cent has increased. The point of Turkish sports is that you created a doping, internationally shady Turkish athlete. 648 doping samples removed, 90 samples positive. Is this the success of Turkish sports now? If we're going to talk about success in Turkish sports, we need to eliminate doping in Turkish sports, but you've brought the failure of the federations, the incentive for medals to cover up this poor government of the federations. What did he bring, my dear friends? He brought in the doped athletes. So, what about the non-doping athletes? 90 of the 648 samples came back positive, so you intend to raise a hormonal athlete, which is the shame of Turkey. When you look around the world, Turkey has a shadow at this point. This is the reason why Turkey did not get the Olympics. So, did you stop and fight for success? No. You put a fan club on the stand for a coup. That fan club that was thrown before the trial, my dear friends in the market, when the library was built in the villages, the market was there, next to the citizens of the earthquake in Van Nah. The market sense is high, the common sense of this society, but you took this Market and accused it of a coup. I guess you don't know what the coup was like. The blow was done by the tank, the blow was done by the cannon, the blow was done by the gun, but you saw that scarf in the hand of the Market as a means of impact. (CHEERING) With that head, it's impossible for you to run this country. So, is there violence in sports? I do. My dear friends, you have divided the bleachers with the government's hands. You've divided the fans into fans who want the same color. You've created alternative fans. You also did this in Beşiktas. You can't take sports one step further with artificial fans. Today, you created an artificial fan club called Beşiktaş. What was the point? Split the market. So friends, sports, friendship, peace, brotherhood, right? Isn't it the government's duty to see the citizens of this community play in peace? Is it proper for the government to split up the fan club, create artificial fan club chefs and split up the clubs? Is that the government's job? When you're young, youth is at the same point. Now I'm going to talk about youth politics, but how do I talk about something that doesn't exist? When you look at youth, do you think of youth only as the separation of the compartments of boys and girls? I don't think so. When I look at youth, I think of youth, the future of our futures. I think of him as a young man, a man, and a daughter, who grew up together as brothers and sisters, who knew each other, understood each other. But you're not fighting to get the youth out of the bonsai. If Bonzai has increased by 300 percent in this country, within four years, the Ministry of Youth and Sports should look after him. If a fan club is brought to justice by certain forces and the Department of Youth and Sports does not object... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think the Department of Youth and Sports has any success in this. I'd like to say different things here, but these are the facts of Turkish sports, my friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0035par0186	The fourth speaker is Osman Captain, Antalya MP. Here you go, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0036par0189	Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, our college-aged children's mothers and fathers' fearful dreams, will our child win college or not? In case he wins, where he lies and where he wakes up and what he eats and what he drinks is an important and serious problem. Dear friends, in the last ten years, one university has opened with each one, the number of universities has increased by 2.5 times, and the number of students has increased by 2.5 times. The number of dorms and bed capacity have only increased by half a layer, not even one. As of October 2014, there are 391 dorms in 81 districts and 149 districts in the Office of Higher Education Loans and Dorms, where there are 356,000 beds. The government's homes are inadequate. Not even half of the housing needs can be met each year, but one third can be met, one quarter can be met. For example, 488,000 students applied to the dorms in 2014, 417,000 of which were approved valid, only 106 thousand of which were registered. The Minister of Youth and Sports says about 40 per cent of the current applications were met by the Plan and Budget Commission. Mr. Secretary, not 40 per cent of those applying to the dorms, but 22 per cent have been registered. There's no need for puns. It's not the applications that you think are valid, it's the applications of students who need dorms. In the past, we've all seen the community, the cult, anything to fill the void in this field. Dear friends, before December 17th-25th, 2013, we walked along the road, we were wet together in the rain. You said, "You are separated from the congregation." The AKP-based municipalities have now begun to close down their previously unlicensed community homes. Members of parliament have been given the mandate to open a mid- and high-school student dorm with a bag of legislation adopted on September 10, 2014 to meet the needs of the dorms. In fact, some municipalities have been serving in this area, predestining the need, seeing it. For example, Ismail Ünal, a two - term mayor at Beşiktas, led the area by opening up girls and boys' homes. In the same way, former Mayor Muzaffer Eryılmaz opened the boy and girl dorms. The work of both presidents is admirable. Dear friends, here we are, making laws in this House on September 10, 2014, so that municipalities can open their homes. While this law is being discussed in parliament, Mr. Menderes Türel, the mayor of Antalya Metropolitan, gives the student housing of the former CHP to the President's son's foundation and TORGEV. Here's the document... why isn't it transferred to the Loan and Homes Agency, and it's not rented, and it's given to TORGEV? Is that what Antalya Metropolitan City can't do, and they're giving it to TÜRGEV? Is that why we gave the law to the municipalities to open up their dorms? Dear friends, nearly 800,000 people who have finished college have been put to work because they can't pay off their student loans from the state. The last bag of legislation that was removed didn't really solve the problem. We don't understand why we don't open a frat house and build a palace while the state is represented in glitter in palaces while our children live in bagel palaces morning and evening with bagels. Isn't it more respectable to invest in our future children by building a student dorm instead of building a palace? Dear friends, why doesn't the TOKI hospital, the post office, the school, when they're making a roundabout, make and finish the students' dorms they need right away? Dear friends, why are the buildings rented for YURTKUR, their equipment, restaurant and cafeteria businesses and nutrition aid given to the ruling party without contract? Why haven't the lists of backups been released to the public this year? What's the point of leaving seats for the minister this year when the general manager's quota was lifted last year in relocation? Isn't it obvious to do political favor with the minister's hand? Dear friends, as of November 12, 2014, thousands of students need to be explained as to why YURTKUR is keeping 47,605 beds empty while waiting for their dorm lines. While the allegations that the AKP Youth Arms have placed students in their dorms bother even the deaf sultan in Egypt, our government does not mind missing the Board of Loans and Homes from the Court's audit. In this bill, it says: "There has not been given the required information or notebooks to count. " It does not say, "It has not been offered to me. " Dear friends, I have now come to understand that our government has no face to see the truth, no eyes to hear, no ears to hear, no language to say, the blessed are playing three monkeys. You're not afraid of the citizen. I say, fear God. As I end my words, I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports: Mr. Minister, there is a stadium in Samsun, in the middle of the city; in your ministry, you lift it up and build a 33,000 stadiums for Tekeköy. Why do you build a stadium the same size in Antalya, the capital of tourism and agriculture, in the middle of the city, in the center of the city, where traffic is paralyzed? Is there a role in this for you and your predecessor to be Samsunese, or is there a role in the fact that the rank is high in Antalya? My respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0037par0201	Thank you. The fifth speaker is Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0038par0205	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised to speak on behalf of my group over budgets for the Ministry of Finance and IRS. Dear friends, we make similar speeches on the Finance Ministry budget every year, as in other ministries, but we do a lot of serious criticism about the Finance Ministry budget. It's really basic criticism, but it's getting better every year. The Ministry of Finance is the ministry representing the state. The Ministry of Finance is the first thing to be thought of when you say state. It's the Ministry of Finance that needs to show state seriousness, state weight. But unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance, as you can see, is losing its weight, its seriousness every year. There are many different reasons for that. Not just because he's wasted his own staff, his own valuable staff, especially in recent years, but because he's lost his boards, not just because he's lost his boards, who's been raising men to the government, showing the seriousness of control, but there are other reasons besides that. A company such as the Treasury Department, the institution, is in violation of its own laws, its own laws, I'm afraid. The Ministry of Finance is in such an environment... For example, yesterday, the Prime Minister made a statement regarding these transformation programs. Yesterday he says: "We need to increase our prices, we will increase our savings. " Of course, the Ministry of Finance is the first institution to do this, and do you know what the Prime Minister brought in concretely after he said "saving"? He brought in the record saver. No more plaques; it takes up too much space and costs too much. What kind of funny thing could that be? Savings are really important. There must be more savings in Turkey, and more savings in the state, but does saving money come out of a prime minister's mouth? You save 180 pencils, one of them, I understand, may be a plaque, but is the saving of plaques, which should be considered a singularity in the first place, for God's sake? I'm afraid the Ministry of Finance is giving us an opportunity, but these are very important issues. This is what we do every year about these vehicles. For example, this year 8,900 vehicles were taken as an addition, and we added another 100 or so in the commission; 9,000 and change vehicles only this year. So, in France, in England, I looked, especially in Japan, where they have more populations than we do, more developed countries, and they themselves produce countries starting from the automobile engine -- there are 9,000, 10,000 vehicles in the state, the highest in the public. We take 9,000 vehicles a year. We've got 95 grand now. The Treasury doesn't know all of it, and they don't know exactly what they're buying, over 100,000. Is that even possible? You can't save money in these, you can't run the state, you don't know what the state is, you don't know what the government is, you're going to claim government management, you're going to claim saving; you're not going to. First, you're going to run the Treasury Department, you're going to know what it is, you're going to know your inventory, you're going to know the state, and then you're going to carry a claim to run the state. Speaking of vehicles, let me tell you something else: the Pope came here. We don't know why the Pope came, but what kind of mark did he leave, and what remained in the mind? What do Muslims have in mind? The Pope is very humble, Fiat drives cars, but our President of the Religious Affairs gets in a million-dollar car, so that's all that's left. Saving, saving, then saving plaques... My dear friends, one of the main reasons why the Ministry of Finance has lost so much weight is, in addition to the words I just said, it's a very important, very serious, very serious, budgetary rights issue. Look, you're budgeting. For example, the 2015 budget is $472.9 billion this year. This budget normally needs to be 500 billion, 500. What's the Finance Ministry doing? He keeps the budget small, makes the spending low, obviously, especially in the national education budget, he puts funds into staff funds, then he withdraws those funds, he distributes them to other areas, there's no way he can not be paid for personnel, he creates funds again. He doesn't have an additional budget every year when he's supposed to have an additional budget. Then, with a complementary grant, we place items in the Budget Law, in the Final Account Law. For example, in this year's case, look at Article 6 of the Law on Budget of 2015, which is contrary to the Constitution, friends, contrary to the Constitution. Every year, we do unconstitutional work. Now, we say that... sir, the previous day, Güngör Uras wrote: "Turkey is one of the few countries in the world with a small budget deficit." (Once again, the Central Bank gave us a briefing to the Plan and Budget Commission, one of the paintings says: "We are one of the lowest countries for financial discipline." It's not; the Finance Ministry is hiding its budget deficit, it's not doing it when it's supposed to have an additional budget; it's showing its budget deficit in a tricky way, with back-up funds, over-funds, supplementary grants, look, unfortunately, every year it makes it look a little small. It makes the budget small, it makes a budget much smaller than what it needs to do. At the end of the year, when there should be an additional budget, the Finance Ministry is here every year stealing the will of the nation from this Parliament, the will of the nation. He uses that authority, unfortunately, look, I use such heavy sentences. The Ministry of Finance uses that authority. That can't happen, guys. The Treasury Department doesn't have the weight or the seriousness of it, so I'm afraid that's why we're in this situation. Now, let's move on to another matter quickly. In these structural transformation programmes, which the Prime Minister announced yesterday, this was the second installment; you know, a nine program announced that these are already under 25 topics in the Ten Years of Development Plan. The first year of the Ten Years of Development was 2014, the first year passed, and nothing was done. We're bringing this up again. They weren't even funded properly last year, and nothing was ever done about it. This year we're bringing up instalments. Now, one of the things that was announced yesterday is the reduction, reduction of the informal economy. Look, that's what I say every year in the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly. To do that, we must first make a common data pool for public institutions, especially public institutions, social security institutions, the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Labor, the Chamber of Commerce, and the industrial chambers, to reduce the informal economy. Look, the Finance Ministry hasn't changed since 2000, more or less the number of taxpayers has increased, and look at the increases, the number of taxpayers has been limited by 8-10. In Anatolia, the number of taxpayers is falling; according to Finance Ministry records, the number of places of employment is reduced. So Asia Minor is getting poorer and poorer and poorer and poorer. There's just an increase in certain provinces. Now, let me put that in parentheses. You can't solve this informality without creating a joint data pool with the Ministry of Finance, with the SGK, with the Office General, with the workplaces, with the corporations. I mean, it's just a trick. If we're doing something, we have to do it right, it has to mean something. Mr. Minister, again, you skipped the corruption department because there was no time at the General Assembly in your speech to present the budget. I'm glad you jumped. About the corruption, unfortunately, we failed. In your statement on that day, you state that we were ranked 64, but you don't specify what ranking we were last year. We're very, very regressed from last year, I'm afraid. But, other than that, there's a report from the OECD. It's not in the press, and I've mentioned it in the Commission. According to the report of the Anti-Biber Work Group, -- this study group is studying bribes to companies coming to Turkey from out of the country -- says: "There is no progress in this, as there is no progress in 11 years, according to our research, Turkey's struggle with bribes within itself is becoming increasingly strained." This is very interesting. I mean, normally the bribes from foreign companies are being investigated in Turkey, and it says: ▪ Turkey can't do that because in itself, bribes are, unfortunately, terrible. There's such criticism. Thank you very much. I wish our budget to be blessed.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0039par0221	Sixth speaker Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0040par0224	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the valued lawmakers, Public Contraction Agency, the President of the Privatisation Administration and the Association of Public Accounting Control Standards in 2015. I salute you all. Let's start with public bids. Let's start with about 500 billion liras, a public tender that spent 500 billion dollars during the ruling period. In 2002, the public tender system was renewed because the heavy bill for corruption in the previous period was paid, and a new public tender system was established that made corruption difficult, bringing an efficient, economic system. What was the nature of this public tender system, the basic feature? It made corruption difficult. What was his fate? For 12 years, 162 times, as we can count, with various laws and decrees, this law has been violated. I say that many of the changes have been made to justify corruption or to facilitate new corruption. The easiest way to do that was to get rid of the public contract law. And for that reason, the exception clause was often interfered with. Because what would happen if it came to the exception clause was that all public tender legislation was being cancelled for those tenders. There were five clauses, five articles up to the (e) title when the power came. So what happened? The alphabet is ending, Mr. Finance Minister, and you've made exceptions to the (u) clause. An exception you set up, for example, about distribution of coal to poor families. I've explained many times on this stand the shameful corruption of distribution of coal to poor families. Another matter, a list of banned persons. What do you mean, banned list? If a person and his company share a bribe, corruption, and a lawsuit is filed against him, it must be banned from the date of the trial. Again, you interfered with the law here, and you facilitated the public tenders of those who bribed and alleged corruption. It's a sad situation for the congressman who gave it to him, and it's a sad situation. What happened at the end of this? Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, what is the highest priced tender for the Republic of Turkey? Isn't that the third airport contract? Who was playing in front of the TVs at the third airport auction? Nihat Özdemir. But was Nihat Özdemir on trial for corruption in the Blue Stream case in Ankara, when he was driving? He was on trial. How did he participate in the highest-priced tender in the history of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Secretary, when the judges should be on the banned list according to law and should not be allowed to participate in the tender? Isn't that a sad picture? The failure of the administration and the court to make that decision, and the fact that a person under suspicion entered into the tender of the third airport according to the clear rule of the law, carries the sentence to stir up corruption in the tender. It's sad for us. That's not all that's wrong with the Public Contraction Board. The public tender board has been stripped of all authority, but what authority? Their powers to expose or block corruption. Today, proving corruption in a public tender in Turkey costs 5,000 liras to raise money for the state. You can't complain without paying $5,000, and even if you're right about your complaint, you can't get the $5,000 back. This is a symbol of the decay of Turkey. The public auction system has become so competitive, dear friends, that as of today, there is no equally competitive system. A system has only been established to ensure that public resources, the right to an orphan, are unfairly transferred to the ruling party. This painting is a sad painting on behalf of the House. The problem doesn't end with that, another issue is privatisation. How did Neoliberal wild capitalists tell us about privatisation? They said: "The prices will fall, the employment will increase, the quality of service will increase. " Look, what great privatisations have been fulfilled? Wild capitalists, even violent capitalists with religious sauce, which one of them was right? Look at TELECOM, people closing the fixed lines in their homes. Look at the power companies, look at the gas companies. So, what does privatisation mean in our kind of privatisation, in countries like us, where we want to be colonized? Selling below the values of assets, making ruling supporters rich, means enriching. Now, what do you have to do when you're selling a product? You need to determine its value. And while you're selling public property, you need to make a legal evaluation. Now, I'm asking Mr. Finance Minister, according to the law, after you've sold all the property that belongs to us, which belongs to the people, you'll have to explain the value reports. Where's the evaluation report on TELEKOM? Where is it, Mr. Secretary? What you sold in TECEL... we sold for 50 billion dollars in this country. Why don't you explain the value of the rights of the orphan, which is worth a minimum of 150 billion dollars? Because if you do, it will be understood what corruption your power is involved in. How much did you sell TECEL for? YOU have sold the TECEL for $292 million. Nine months later, the man sold 100 percent of the TEKEL for what? Sold for $1 billion. If this orphan's right is to be sold for $1 billion, then how dare you sell it for $292 million. It's a shame, isn't it? Don't you feel guilty about this painting? It's a shame, isn't it? When we go to the mine worker, there's no money in this budget. We say, "There's no money when we go to the officer." We say, "There's no money in this budget when we go to the oppressed people." We say, "There's no money in this budget. We're doing $700 million in damage to a company." When you come to this bench and respond, I want you to answer with the evaluation report of this privatisation. You sold TELEKOM. The sales value of a company in the capitalist system equals 10 or 14 years of gross profit. How much did Telekom sell for? $11.5 billion. It's a shame, isn't it? This company had a gross profit of $4 billion. Well, we didn't actually sell TELEKOM, so according to the court's decision, we rented TELEKOM. So, Mr. Finance Minister, how do they sell a leased property? HOW do TELEKOM executives sell real estate to the public in 25 years by posting a newspaper ads for the TELEKOM company? Are you and Ali Babacan asleep? Why aren't you interfering with this? It's a shame, isn't it? Isn't it a shame, Mr. Secretary, that the public's property is being sold? You sold TELEKOM, the corporate tax was 30 per cent; five months later, the institution tax was reduced to 20 per cent. There's $4 billion in gross profits, you've sold for 20 years, we're putting money in the pocket of 400 trillion Hariri. It's a shame, isn't it? If you're going to download the tax, why don't you download it before the TELEKOM privatisation? Minister, I'm asking you from this bench how much tax did you remove from the people of Yandash who cursed the mother of the nation? How much did you delete? How much tax did you delete from the grocery store, the butcher, the grocery store, the shop owner who didn't make a living when the 95 percent tax was erased? You delete 90% of these taxes, but when you come to the oppressed, you delete 40 percent of them. This is the creation of the tax-handed exploitation scheme. Mr. Secretary, this is all happening on top of your Ministry. I wouldn't dare call you thieves, but unfortunately you're on the lookout for the violent capitalist theft of this country. That's why I don't think you'll be entrusted with a penny. We're against this budget with every last penny. We feel that this budget is forbidden, making the poor poor poorer, the rich of allies richer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0041par0237	Mr. Sky, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0042par0241	Mr. President, thank you. To commemorate the 36th anniversary of this day, I salute all our friends who were in Marash to commemorate the massacre of Marash. Thirty-six years ago, the dark hands of Maraş made a massacre and massacred our Alevi citizens. To commemorate these events in the Maraş massacre, which have yet to be captured, we strongly condemn the ban of all meetings held today in Maraş. On the contrary, the state would have to lead the way, and if the current power considers our citizens to be citizens, it would have to turn such a memorial into a large organization that all of us would participate in. We strongly condemn this understanding, and once again I honor those who died in the massacre of Maras. I'd also like to point out that on December 17th and 25th, I strongly condemn the police to remove the banners that were hung on our mayors in the corruption operations. In the same way, I present to all our public the attitude of the mindset that the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor hung the billboards a few months ago. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit03spe0043par0246	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0043par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our ninth round budget talks. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Husamettin Zenderlioğlu is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0044par0043	Mr. President, I had a request.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0043par0044	I won't keep you waiting, then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0044par0045	Okay.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0043par0046	Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0045par0048	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party regarding the National Ministry of Defence budget bill for 2015; and I respectfully salute you all. But before I begin, I condemn this massacre of Marass with hatred. I demand that those who committed this massacre be held accountable. Dear lawmakers, state budgets are very important political, economic and administrative documents. It is also the key indicator of government positions on labour, democracy, social rights and freedoms. As we evaluate the budget, it is a fact that natural and social events and phenomena arise as a result of deep needs, that they are expressions of obligations in the infrastructure or untenable needs. If you look at the functional distribution of budget funds in the institution, it's clear that the 2015 budget has a multi-security budget and an increasingly conservative and authoritarian budget in recent years. Turkey, among the world's most armed states, has been raising its budget for war every year, and make sure that the money spent on the war budget was spent on peace. The budget of the National Ministry of Defence, which will use about 5 per cent of the total funds in the budget alone, has audits and reports, discussed, discussed, spoken, but not controlled, what they're doing, is 57 per cent of the budget, which represents purchases of goods and services for consumption of 35 per cent. Out of the central budget, billions of funds are being transferred from covered funds, public institutions and organisations to the Ministry of National Defence under the name of the Foundation and Association. The budget prepared by the AKP government is the budget for robbing, pooring, putting people out of work, blackening Turkey's future, and putting up mortgages on beautiful tomorrows. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as it is known, have prepared an antidemocratic budget for 2015. The heavy taxes he collects from the public are as clear as the day he consolidates his authority and expands the area of exploitation and divides the lion's share with the TSK and the National Ministry of Defence. It is clear that workers are being coveted by their gains, their savings, and their habitats. In other words, loot is the looting budget, but it's also the war budget. Mr. President, there is a third world war in the Middle East today. Because just as brutal capitalist modernity has slaughtered people in the wars of first and second world sharing, unfortunately today, it's done in Middle Eastern geography. The scenarios of those who want to redesign the Middle East are on stage. When he failed to obtain the land in the first world share war, he caused the death of millions of people in the second world sharing war, and he was condemned to a life that was so disabled, and after that, they drew new maps in accordance with their purpose. They wouldn't have had enough of that either. They've hurt nature, destroyed ecological balance. The Middle East geography is geostrategic and geopolitical, a remarkable geoeconomic area. It has caused wars, invasions, invasions, looting, plundering, massacres, exiles and migrations throughout history due to sources of subterranean and subterranean wealth. In order to understand this feeling, you will see that the Kurdish people of ancient Mesopotamia have experienced a history of great suffering, and are still facing a plague called DAIH. The most vivid witness of these sufferings is no doubt Rojava, and the most obvious example is Kobani. He always knew how to resist this uninterrupted persecution, denial, destruction, and destruction, by the extent of this oppressed people's power. In this geography we live in, it must be known to everyone that wars, exploited peoples, tortured children, growing up with tears, will no longer come to these dirty policies and games. One of the principles of human, free living should be social government understanding, social law and justice. Taxes from the public must not be transferred into the pockets of the Rants. Every area should be open to inspection. No one should see themselves above the law. People fighting for democratic rights and freedoms and peoples shouldn't have TOMA, pepper gas, baton, detention, arrests. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're still dealing with the idea of a century ago in this geography that we've been living in, as the world's debates on the removal of borders continue. Unfortunately, the AKP government has developed an oportunist policy against a violent organisation such as DAİŞ, while recent events in Rojava have occurred. We see and say these policies as wrong, both from a military standpoint and from a political basis. I hope that in the 21st century, the people who were divided into four pieces by the imperial states of the Kurdish people centuries ago, I still keep the hope that this division and disintegration will end, and I say that those days are near. Through this historic, sociological and political truth, the AK PARTY government and its ruling DAİŞ gang have coveted Kurds' achievements in Rojava. I find it useful to say that the aid sent to Al Qaeda, Ahura Damascus and other groups was primarily returned to the Kurdish people and other peoples as tears, bombs, and bullets. In this scope, it is clear to us why Turkey has not given enough support to coalition forces so far, as the world's public has discussed. We find it wrong to try to equate ISIS mentality with the Kurdish freedom movement. It is a historical error, a sin, and a great sin, to put the DAIH in the same way as those who struggle for freedom these days. In fact, because of the civil war in Syria, it is not acceptable for Turkey to help gangs in many areas, to open border crossings to these groups, to allow gangs to enter and exit the border, to hold meetings with them for hours. The AK PARTI government was not bothered by the fall of mortars on Turkish soil, by helping gangs in Syria, and by the transitions developed by gangs at zero point in the border; an artist, activist Fate, was shot in the head while creating a peace chain with artists. This government has not made a statement about this, or even silenced, but in a small stone thrown at the other side, it knows how to react in a total choir. The borders that divide Turkey's Kurdish geography on the Syrian border are nothing more than a reflection of fear. Not only did he pull fences at the border to separate Kurds, he created a huge buffer zone, creating a mined zone. Today it is equipped with 1,300km of landmines. It doesn't remove any of the mines that were laid out. However, the people who migrated because of this war are unfortunately losing their lives in these minefields. The most concrete indicators are the ongoing fortresses, outposts, security dams, ongoing protection system, minefields, new weapons and missile purchases, and thus the enormous budget for the National Ministry of Defence. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the conflict may have stopped in the process of resolving today, but we have reason to doubt what kind of war the Turkish Armed Forces have waged in the very near past, if they obey international rules of war. Because in the Kazan Valley in 1999, the claims that 20 ARGK people lost their lives by using chemical weapons were still not revealed. To investigate these, it is imperative that the commissions of research form the facts. We don't want to hear any more of the news of the death of Kurdish children who die every year because of scattered ammunition. But it's clear that neither the Turkish Armed Forces nor the Secretary of Defense have taken a step towards solving any of these problems. It is still out of the question for them to make a statement about it. The Ministry of National Defense is far from a reassuring institution because it has not attempted any solutions to the solution to such problems. The Ministry of National Defense has become a criminal and a criminal and a violation of rights. He should give self-criticism about all these accusations against the Ministry. The ministry needs to enlighten the public about what's going on inside it. The budget of this institution, of course, can be discussed and debated when it confronts claims about the National Ministry of Defence, when it reveals all the facts to the public. Otherwise, the money to be transferred to this institution will be blood and tears to this country. Another structural problem with the Turkish Armed Forces, as you all know, is mandatory military service. Forced military service has returned to the torture of the state's citizens. Forced military service has become a great torment for young people and their families, and the obligation must be lifted. It is clear in Turkey that people do not want to go to the army. As of 2014, the presence of about 600-700,000 baks and the presence of a roll call fugitive, the registration of 2 million people, is a clear and clear indication that people in this country do not like military service and do not want to serve. It is a clear and clear sign that this repetitive draft law has been passed. It is a sign that this often repeated bill of military service has been passed. Mr. President, the state's constant memory of punishment has turned into a torture of the fugitive recipe, starting from $296 to $2286, for people who don't want to go into military service. The removal of mandatory military service is essential to all of us. The most important step to do so is the constitutional assurance of the right to conscientious rejection. No one can be forced to serve by force, pressure, against his will. This is completely contrary to the norms of democracy, but Turkey is one of the rare countries that rejects conscientious rejection, even though it is a member of the Council of Europe. And you all know that those who express their denial of conscience are humiliated and otherwise humiliated in front of everyone. One of the biggest problems faced during a mandatory military service is those who died suspiciously in the military. No citizen currently serving in Turkey has any confidence in their own personal safety because citizens who have been drafted for military service are eligible for medical examinations in the military departments. The National Defence Minister, unfortunately, reports that suicide is a disease, and is quite unrealistic in this regard. However, in the last 12 years 1,036 soldiers have reportedly committed suspicious suicide. As of November 2014, 27 suspected soldiers were killed. The incidents where soldiers were shot in the back and killed are reported to families as suicides. If we really assume that the soldiers committed suicide, we're wondering if the Ministry has any work to do with these suicides, and we're asking. Even if they really did commit suicide, the reason is, once the family has to be briefed on this, but unfortunately, there's no information about it. The ministry, for sure, should share these military deaths with the public with all its nudity. The General Staff and the Ministry of National Defence have been very insensitive to this issue, and the billions of dollars given to the National Ministry of Defence as a result of public taxes have resulted in killing, slaughtering people. The most obvious example of this is the Roboski massacre where 34 citizens were killed by fighter planes. After all this time, the perpetrators are still unaccounted for. However, we have not forgotten and will not forget the Roboski massacre. Mr. President, when the national Defense Ministry budget is being discussed, of course one of the main issues of discussion is Ergenekon cases. Among the 1990-2000 people, political claims in Kurdistan's geography -- against power -- are alleged to have been forced to kill people. It has put these difficult and pressing devices in front of our society, including human replacements, human rights violations, the loss of thousands of lives. During this period, 6 million people were emigrated, 17,000 people went to the unknown, 60,000 people lost their lives, 4,000 villages were evacuated. Although many soldiers tried in Ergenekon cases were known to have served in Kurdistan during the period, Ergenekon cases did not pass east of Fırat. This shows that the system gives itself a power struggle, and as a result of this power struggle, no one knows what the Ergenekon cases are still in, and it is not transparent, why, why, the questions are still on hold. The outcome of the Ergenekon cases, rather than confronting its state, has been formed as an arena that reflects the power group's duel. The other issue is that Turkey's Turkish Armed Forces resurface as a political actor. Although the EC PARTY was said to have abandoned their approach to political intervention during the period, the Turkish Armed Forces made a daily statement from the war situation in Kobani, making themselves the National Ministry of Defence and the judiciary. I demand that the Joint Chiefs of Staff be transferred to the Ministry of National Defense. In particular, I told you in the past period, the Chief of Staff must be connected to the Ministry of National Defence, which is the situation in countries run by democracy, but Turkey is the opposite. No one in other countries knows the name of the General Staff, the Chief of Staff doesn't do politics, everyone does their duty, but it's clear to all of you that it's the opposite in Turkey. In this scope, structural solutions must be found for the establishment of the democratic state of law. If not, there will be doubts in Turkey that coup mechanics is constantly in operation, which is undeniable and inevitable. Therefore, I repeat, if we're talking about democracy, human rights, law, humanity, justice, then the Chief of Staff must and must be committed to the Ministry of Defense. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0046par0085	Mr. Buldan, please, you have a request.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0047par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, today is the festival of Cejna Ezi of the Ezidis. The importance of holidays in human history means that peace strengthens its facility, help and solidarity. Mesopotamia is a mosaic of peoples and beliefs. Thus, for thousands of years, the people and the faith have established the rules of living together in this geography according to their moral traditions, including the oppressed. As the People's Democratic Party, I hereby celebrate the Cejna Ezi Day of our people. In addition, 105 Alevi were killed, more than a thousand were injured, hundreds of homes and businesses were destroyed in attacks that began today in Maraş. The peoples and the faith garden of Maraş, Alevi, and the leftist, and the democrat, were massacred. We also want to say that we condemn this massacre as the People's Democratic Party -- the truth and justice commission in parliament -- will be an important step to clarify the Maraş massacre and all human rights violations and crimes in our history -- and that we condemn the ban by the governorship of Maras In addition, on December 19, 2000, the most bloody prison operation in Turkey's recent history was carried out. Therefore, in the attacks under the name Operation Return to Life, which took place in 20 prisons to ensure the transition to type F prison, 32 people were killed. We, the People's Democratic Party, would like to express that we demand that the account of the December 19th massacre be brought to light, and that the political and military responsible be brought to an independent trial. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0048par0130	Second speaker, Özdal Threeer, Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0049par0133	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0048par0134	I'll give it to you after three o'clock, Mr. Line. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0136	Mr. President, members of the lawmakers, I have made a commitment to address the budget for our group on behalf of the Sports General Directorate and the Board of Higher Education Loans. I salute you all. The most basic aspect of budgets is that the income-go balance is being maintained. What's the budget's income? It's tax collected from the public, and it's income from the corporate business of those taxes. So the costs of a budget, which is a total public source of income, must be completely public. None of the non-circled costs are actually the budget of a country. You know, there's a classic tax lie, it's advertised, it says, "Here's your tax. Here's even a shopping ticket or an electric ticket ad in public spots." Here, take receipts, pay taxes, pay taxes regularly so the taxes you pay will return to you as road, water, electricity, education, health care. Now, the road is customised, telecommunications, telephone privatized, health privatized, education privatised, many areas of public service are being set up to ensure that someone's private and supportive interests are still being taxed from the nation. If privatisation is so common, if all public expenses are being set up for someone's benefit, why are taxes being collected from the citizens? Actually, this needs to be questioned now. A tax reform is also needed. If you're turning public reform towards privatisation, you're going to have to adjust the tax accordingly. Everything is taxed, tax tax taxed, taxed, taxed and taxed. This is what happens when you buy a car, when you talk on the phone, when you buy gum, when you eat in a restaurant, when you buy shoes, even when you buy a house for your father-in-law. Now, I put the father-in-law accent here as an irony of past-age ministers' corruption. In public service, one of the most important points in the public budget is corruption. No institutionary budget where corruption is not prevented and private interests are not supervised is not for public benefit. There's a budget, if it's being done, one, according to the public; two, it has to be done according to the rights. If it's not done according to the public and the rights, there's got to be budgets. Then why are you doing this calculation? ▪ Statistics, here, sir, there was so much public power, there were so many billion of them before, and now there are so many billion of them. • You look at what goes into the public's pockets, rather than the oversized numbers of statistics. There's an unofficial national record story. Here, the income level has gone up. In Turkey, the income per capita exceeds $10,000. The lie, the story is... you equate the money of the son of the prime minister, who has six ships, and the son of the earthquake who lives in the container, and divide it into two, and that's how much of his money, that's how much of his money is thought to be. These numbers are all stories. All of these numbers are the false testimony of neoliberal capitalism, violent capitalism. If children walk around this country barefoot, if people whose children are miners are in this country are without shoes, if someone's shoebox is filled with dollars and euros, it's a sham and a betrayal of the people. This needs to be discussed. If people in this country have to smuggle because of poverty, because of what smuggling, because of the four sides of Kurdistan have crossed the fence, children are being slaughtered because they have a can of diesel in hand, and children are declared terrorists in this massacre, as in Roboski, in Van. If they can't go to schools, they can't take advantage of health services, they can't use health services, and they're declared terrorists for a bidon masot, it's not possible to talk about the budget, it's not possible to mention the budget, it's not possible for the Kurdish children at any border point in the palace. It is often asked: 'Does your conscience ache?' I know that the conscience of those who fake it does not hurt. Those who rule their own children do not grieve over the misery of the children of others. Those who build for themselves palaces in a thousand rooms will not be grieved if others die in a cave-in or drown. For him, when the budgets are being drawn up, you must go through principles, not through numbers. How to provide an equal income distribution, how to establish justice in public spending, but when they don't, students are hungry, thirsty; whether universities are doing quality education or not; loan housing for all students; instead of arguing about them, sir, we gave money to the Credit Homes Agency, Sports General, it's this much status. You're looking at it, it's this much, it's that the Minister's or a public servant's or the President's or any public official's or any public official's or any other public official's or any other public official's money has been hit by the same amount of money. Even if you built a sports facility like this a thousand times, no sport in this country would ever be a Olympic champion, could it? The problem with doping... people go to different solutions because there's no spending on the development of sports activities for athletes. In football games, basketball games, even at the smallest, two-way ping-pong competitions, there's a lot of show-and-telling, nationalist, racist rhetoric. I mean, would national sports be okay? Sports are sports. All the people in the world can run, walk, play tennis, swim. And what is the virtue of sports for everyone? There is talk about the benefit of sports in order for human body and mental health to be fulfilled. You're bidding on a very large swimming pool, you're making a swimming pool, but those swimming pool kids are getting infected, like in the swimming pool at the Van▪, like in a lot of swimming pools. So, what did that do for the public? You built a swimming pool, who took advantage of it? That plumber who built that swimming pool, he took advantage of the tender, the principal's in-laws, he did something about his bid corruption, but who did you build that swimming pool for? You did it for the kids and the kids. The children swam in that swimming pool and got infected, but in order to avoid infection, a lot of health materials are made to look like they're being bought, millions of dollars are being spent on hygiene. Who's winning? The people who make that trade on paper win. So, what's the Department of Youth and Sports for kids and teenagers to do about it? Nothing. Football competitions, basketball games, or just the perception of sports as a competition is different, and it's not a problem? What is the importance of physical education in schools or of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to teach better physical education in national education schools? No. There's no need to mention here what the minister of sports did and the treatment he received from the Prime Minister. Now we have a young Minister, who, I hope, will not repeat the wrong practices before him; we will sign new, beautiful acts, and we will support their success in that direction. Without any strings attached, we are willing to offer any kind of heartfelt support for any ministry, any institution, to succeed in its own work, and we wish it success. We hope that Turkey will try to resolve 100 years of accumulated problems in a zealous, determined, sensitive way, with a conscience, and succeed in doing so. Because, now, it's not just a matter of person; it's the problem of Turkey, it's a chronicized social problem, it's a problem of social mentality. If anyone can't protect himself when he's in the wheel of the same system, the same wheel melts away, hopefully our Minister will be strong and successful during his term of duty, and we're waiting for his good deeds. At the Institute of Higher Education Credit and Homes... friends are told of such honey and honey... that it's almost as if all college students have been given very good housing conditions at work, almost all students are told as if they were staying in five-star hotels, which is not the case. So, what was this mentality doing before? Remember, when the Minister of Interior visited the earthquake victims' tents in Van. He said, "You have tents, like palaces, for tents where the victims of the earthquake had given the victims, and the children of the people had burned to death." Now, you tell the students that you have dorms like Miray. But only one of the 20 students in this country can benefit from the Loan and Housing Institution, and what are the other 19? Who is being served at the Credit and Homes Association? It's for college students. The principals and in-laws of the Credit and Housing Institution, their father-in-laws, are also turning the corner, but the problems at the Credit and Homes Institution -- I don't need to tell you, look at the Court's report -- all their tender corruption is obvious.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0051par0148	Does it come to those who deserve it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0149	The irregularities in loans, the irregularities in student loans, and then the debt to students as loans, the collection of thousands of pounds of interest loans from college graduates who were unemployed after finishing college. Now, think of it this way: Businessmen who have bankrupted the Muflis People's Bank can be erased from the tax debt of gold traders, and the figures referred to as tax debt or loan debt are more than loan loans used by all university students in Turkey, but the student loans can't be erased. Why? Because this system is a neoliberal capitalist system. The system takes it from the people, gives it to the children of the people who are trying to master the people, who are building palaces for themselves. For a budget to be fair, for it to have social reflections -- we said -- it has to be based on people and rights. Who are the people of the Credit and Homes Association? They're college students. College students come from every city, every county, every village, every political community. If college students aren't going to do politics, who is? A private security guard, who makes a press statement, holds his mouth open or sticks his finger in his eyes or he lynches it in front of the cameras, and as if it wasn't enough, he gets poked, shot, killed by the police when he goes out of college. But there's a private security firm there, where the tenders he got from the Credit House or the university go through millions of millions of dollars, and there's a huge amount of money going around, but college students are going to look at the money they've been given by the Mortgage Association for a low rate of $6.70 cents, $2.20 for breakfast, and $4.50 for lunch, and they're going to feed it. I'm telling the Mortgage Board and the Minister or the Prime Minister or the Council of Ministers that there is no dinner, so let's try to eat for $6.70.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0052par0153	They're so grateful, why are you talking like that?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0154	I need to ask them, not you, if they're grateful.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0053par0155	We're asking.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0052par0156	They're already voting.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0157	Okay, well, if you're so comfortable and coy about their vote coming to you anyway, then when the students vote...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0053par0158	Mr. President, would you care to step in? You can't say you're sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0160	...they'll consider what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0054par0161	Why don't you go eat in a dorm?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0162	I ate at the dorm, did you?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0054par0163	Yeah, I've eaten, it's good.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0164	Bon appétit.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0055par0165	Friends, friends, please, let's hear your honor's valuable speech.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0166	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0055par0168	Respectfully, but...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0169	I'd like to thank you for your rudeness to the bench, Mr. President's kindness.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0055par0170	And you take back what you used to say, don't you, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0171	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0055par0172	You take that back, don't you?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0050par0173	What promise?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0056par0174	You said, "I'm sorry." It didn't work out.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0055par0175	The word "pissy" you just used.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0057par0176	Dear Line, please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0058par0177	Mr. President, if you have any objections, you'll answer later, please don't interrupt.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0059par0178	That's how I responded to his assessment of my speech while I was talking. I want to keep talking about it. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, right now, we have to approach issues sincerely. If we're going to build the future of our children and our young people, we have to make an absolute arrangement. Governments come and go, politics come and go. We can be legislators today, we won't be tomorrow, no one may know what's going to happen tomorrow, but it must be a fundamental virtue for all of us to live the moment we're in right. For the moment, at the point of building the future of our children, our young ones, if we're trying to provide them with a healthy life, a peaceful life, a future for them, we should give up these privatisation policies. Rather than enriching the owners of the cafeteria at university dorms, rather than enriching private security firms, we have the responsibility to organize a budget that will interfere with the future of those students rather than enriching the directors of Credit and Housing. It's like that in sports, it's like that in students, it's like that in health, it's like that in education, it's like that in social security, it's like that in agriculture, it's like that in every field. That's all we've talked about, college students, colleges are built in every city; most of the universities are not even in the quality of old secondary schools. Of course, you've done so much, why doesn't that reflect success? Because of these kind of setbacks. Why isn't there an Olympic champion? Why can't there be any significant sports success other than football? It's all really about these kinds of problems. If you set up a budget, not according to the needs of you citizens, according to the needs of political supporters, there will be neither sport nor education in this country, and young people will become a material of the exploitation system in the other country. If we're talking about freedom and a free future, if we're talking about democratic unity, we need to be able to edit a democratic system with the Constitution, with the Tax Law, with the budget, with everything, with a democratic mentality, but it needs to be intimate. With these feelings and thoughts, condemning the past Maras massacres and all the killings today, I condemn the massacre of the people who destroyed the lives of the people, who slaughtered people, who slaughtered people, and who did not submit to the system's fascism, in order to expose all the problems that our Alevi citizens have experienced in the wake of their past wounds, and that their perpetrators should answer to the conscience of society in front of the judiciary. As of today, I salute the resistance of the Kobani people in Turkey, Kurdistan, in the Middle East, in the position of freedom against ISIS persecution, fascism. In our country, first of all, we need the honor of humanity, first of all, peace in our country, and first of all, intimacy in peace. We talked about college students today, about teenagers, kids. I salute you in the hope that the torture of young men in prisons will end, that children will not be killed by police bullets, that this will never happen again. I hope freedom wins.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0061par0189	Mr. Row, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, the events of our Maras province in 1978 are condemned by all parts of our society. The people of Maraş, as you know, have condemned these events and are a province of brotherhood law, love, respect, and tolerance. The activity, thought to be done by several groups in the coming days, has been blocked by the demonstration, the open-air meeting property management, on the grounds that I will read below. I've been promised to inform the public and our fellow lawmakers about this.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0062par0194	A few groups are what you call a people!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0195	The governor's statement states that it is our duty and responsibility to avoid any action that could damage the peace and peace process of peace that has occurred in our province during the interim.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0063par0196	It's not like a group vice president to make an announcement like that.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0197	This year's meeting was not allowed to be held so that those who arranged the meeting and the march could also get out of control and turn to crime, never happen again in our province, and no one else would ever want it to happen.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0064par0198	Is it possible, Mr. President, that people are forbidden to mourn?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0199	This statement from the governor's office...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0064par0200	Let's ban the governorship, ban the governorship. Won't people mourn?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0065par0201	Explains the governor's statement, I suppose. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0202	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. I wanted to share the governor's statement with our fellow MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0066par0204	You read the governor's statement, the bureaucrat's statement?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0205	We've been on the General Assembly all morning, we may not know what's going on. I've made this statement in exchange for other congressmen's statements.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0066par0206	That's no way to explain the governor's office! A politician makes a statement from a bureaucrat?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0060par0207	Me and my group are congratulating the families of those who died in the Maraş incident again. I've been promised to condemn the events and inform the public about them. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0067par0209	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0068par0210	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0069par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0070par0212	That's not a good reason. People will react democratically, he's being blocked. This isn't happening!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0071par0213	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0072par0215	Mr. President, in my speech a while ago, I cursed and condemned the Maras massacre and stated that these decisions that the Governor of Maras had made were unacceptable. The government is in charge of this matter. The AKP Group's Deputy Chairman's statement is a statement the government must make. However, in one of the most tragic and darkest events of our recent history, the government and everyone today, in a memorial like this, all of our citizens, Alevisi, Sunnisi, whatever it is, to meet everyone and share the sadness of this great suffering, but there, consciously and plannedly, to condemn this attack on our citizens, the press announcements of the massacre, the rally, no matter what, is a different reason behind the cancellation of all meetings. It is not a cause that unites our citizens with common concern and pride; rather, it is a separative reason. It is not up to Mr. Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group to make his statement. If he's going to do it, the government will stand up bravely, and they'll do it on behalf of the governor.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0073par0216	Mr. President, I don't know what I can and can't...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0071par0217	The members of the government are here, sir, taking notes, I assume they'll answer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0073par0218	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I'll decide what I can't answer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0071par0219	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0074par0220	They're confusing the government with the party. The government is one thing.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0073par0221	I'd like to invite our friend with a little more respect. I've made my point. I've also explained that we are fully condemning the events and that the management of the estate has decided to maintain public order.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0074par0222	They're confusing the council group with the government. Give him the book again and he'll read it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0075par0223	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0076par0224	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0077par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0075par0226	Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0077par0228	Mr. President, what happened in Maraş was a massacre of Alevi and Kurds. I would like to inform you of one of the consequences, assuming that everyone here has a minimum knowledge of this, which is that this city, September 12th fascism and the martial law of the period, have been ignored by the arm of arm. There was a huge pogrom, where people who were victims of the massacre, Mersin, Istanbul, Belgium, London, were unable to reach a statistical rate of 30 per cent, especially when the Alevi population in that city was 30 per cent. Mr. Group, we regret and strongly deny that the Vice President should take refuge in a cause that exceeds the good intentions of the victims there and abuses them, or share the governorship's motive with the group as if it were a virtue. Here is the case: Count from left to right, from right, from left, from 25 to 30,000 Flames, 300 to 500 Flames. You... the ones who did this massacre, they abandoned them, they abandoned them. The investigation by the wartime commander of the period itself was carried out by the Alemi (Ali) who committed the massacre. The investigation was re-established by the re-investigation of the thesis. I want to tell you about my crown, Dede. He had 5,000 Flame-Betchens in his memory. He was over 80 years old, and as the perpetrator of the Maraş massacre, he was subjected to cold water torture and died of pneumonia. Now, the future... facing massacres here is not to condemn and express sadness, it is not to forbid. If a new brotherhood law is to be established, the most effective way to find out around the world is to remember, face and prevent the perpetrators from being punished. So, Mr. Deputy Director, if he's going to say so, sir, we're not saying anything about the meetings where they've been legally allowed to gum up when this public safety law comes in, but there are women there who were murdered when they were 11 years old, their parents, their brothers, and Elif Tabak, one of them. Thirty-four years, he couldn't come to Marash, and he came to this day, and you are making such a statement. Why? If good intentions were to be abused, make the banners that Marash put up with fascist mentality today a matter of human dignity, and warn your governor that you will take refuge in the grounds of your governor. It means we're condemning it again, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0078par0234	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0079par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0080par0236	Mr. President, for the record, today, as it was yesterday, in Maraş, Alevi, Sunni, Kurd, all sorts of people live in peace, brotherhood.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0081par0238	Where's the peace, the brotherhood?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0080par0239	Honey, do you have to answer?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0081par0240	Where's the peace, the brotherhood, and we can't see it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0082par0241	You stand by the government's decision! It doesn't mean we're brothers to stand by the governor's decision, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0081par0242	That's no way to be a sister!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0083par0243	That's what I wanted to say.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0084par0244	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0085par0246	Mr. President, according to Article 60, it's a very important matter, and I have a brief request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0084par0247	Here, tell him to go on the record. Mr. Group, your vice president has already spoken, we have no such procedure. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0085par0250	Mr. President, Çorum, Sivas, Maras, the chieftains are the pains of this country. We have to live through these sufferings and learn that we must never, ever do these things again. If you ban them by the hands of the government, forbid people from remembering their suffering, you can cause new suffering. It's not the government's place. People have suffered there. By banning them, they also insult the people of Maraş because they make the people of Maras look risky. The people of Maraş have also internalized these sufferings. It's not the government's place to forbid it. We will remember these sufferings so that they will never suffer again. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0084par0252	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0086par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0084par0254	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0086par0256	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you very much. As a Heromarash MP, I felt the need to make a statement. In the latest report on the solution process, there is also an important chapter in the report of the delegation in which Rifat Citarsiklıoğlu was chaired. That chapter, even Mr. Rifat, has made it very clear that the heromarash has suffered a deep pain. Whatever their reason here, Alevi-Sunni, there's been a right-left struggle, and we're talking about an extremely painful event, and at the moment we're here, Maras has now solved this problem within himself, in the statement of the delegation, and has created a model. In Sunday, in Elbia, the governor of interest in Elbia, in the past years, has seen the risks and has tried to establish a compromise, not only this year, but in terms of a conflict that comes from the outside on the same day, and I don't mean Alevi or Sunni -- which is the equivalent of that -- which is somehow possible to happen through Heromarash. The purpose of this is not a ban, but rather a decision was made so that people from the outside would see the risks inside and not risk a new risk, and that an infection that has already healed would not cause another hemorrhage. Otherwise, in other times, there is no such situation as Mr. Bashramaraş said, that people do not come to Kahramanmarash, that they do not visit, that they do not meet their relatives there. I wanted to share this information with the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0087par0259	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0088par0260	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0262	Mr. President, my name has been mentioned, and I have to make a statement, if I may. The worst approach here, Mr. Mahir Ünal, is that I would like to ask him to review this, the most severe approach I could never make to Mr. Mahir Ünal, the one you call outsiders, the one you call from outside, the one who has been massacred and the one who has been traveling from Europe, in various parts of Turkey, and when it happens there today, and the official figures of the state that he has lost there are 111 people, and 70 percent of that is over 400, and 70 percent of that is under the age of 11 years. Why are there outsiders here to come and remember them? Why would anyone want to participate in their suffering come from outside? Where does condolences, reminiscing indicate the danger of such provocation?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0087par0263	Yes, thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0264	One more thing, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0090par0265	I didn't mean outside provocation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0266	This is the most important thing in our history.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0090par0267	I've expressed possible risks from the outside and the inside.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0091par0268	Just a moment, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0269	Mr. Ünal, tell me this... you call it outside and inside. At the center of Maraş, the Maraş Chamber of Industry and Commerce gave a battle honour.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0090par0270	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0271	How many Flames are in the center of Maraş? Answer me this.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0272	Mr. Commander, say your last words, please. Let's not talk mutually, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0273	It's not over 500. There's more out there, there's more in there? They've already pushed everyone out of this massacre. So, let's cover it up like this, oh... There's no such thing, no such thing, no such thing, no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0275	Yes, thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0089par0276	This wound continues to bleed, not ban the road.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0277	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0093par0279	Mr. President, all over the world, those countries -- no matter what country -- hold memorial meetings, putting everyone together in a common place, and they share the whole country's great pain, and they tell those who suffer, at least they're there for them. I've been to the village where there was a massacre of the Grand Clerks the previous year. I've seen the extraordinary measures the government has taken so that that memorial meeting can be held freely. It's the right attitude. Again, the duty of the state, on the anniversary of such an important massacre, in Marashan... wherever it may be, only the people of Marashan do not feel this pain, the pain of everyone who sits all over Turkey. If there was a massacre in Maraş, his heart beats there. If we are to be together as a nation, we must all beat our hearts in the same way in every pain. The government's job is to hold a memorial meeting there. The state may take measures to prevent attacks on that memorial meeting. But now, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group says that a deal has been made with the parties. Who were they made with? A lot of my friends, there, right now, want to make a memorial, but they can't make it happen. To curse a massacre, never to happen again, Sunnisi, Alevisi, whatever it is, the Kurd, Turk, everyone must collectively curse this massacre from the highest sound and take protective measures while the state performs this curse. With such a prohibitive measure, the pain becomes even more itchy and continues to remain in the middle.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0281	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0094par0282	Mr. President, I didn't mention anything about a deal between the parties. But for this wound to heal, I said that the Alevi, who lived in Kahramanmarash, and the Sunni, all sides have now developed a common culture within this time envelope.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0283	Mr. Ünal, the matter is understood.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0094par0284	And I've stated that this has been identified by the council of wise men. What happened today was a total savings of property management, which is why...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0095par0285	Isn't the Department of Internal Affairs in charge of the property, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0286	Mr. Ünal, these have been expressed. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0096par0288	If you'll excuse us, we'll ask our Home Office to brief us on this, not to discuss this matter with the group's vice presidents, but...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0289	Sir, they didn't argue, the group's vice presidents just expressed their wishes, said they were condemning them.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0096par0290	Excuse me. ... themanagementof the estate will tell us what risks you've seen in this matter and what security measures you've taken.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0292	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0096par0293	There's no point in talking about it here and sabotaging budget talks over it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0294	Mr. Ünal, thank you. Budget talks aren't being discussed, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0097par0296	I'd like a sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0297	Kahramanmarash, Çorum, Tepes.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0098par0298	Sivasta...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0299	...on September 12, 1980, massacres were carried out in Turkey under the name of the right-left conflict. Later, it was intended to be turned into a Turkish-Kurdish conflict, which is condemned. That's all there is to it. The point is understood. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0099par0301	We also condemn the government's ban.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0302	We're condemned, too.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0099par0303	Mr. President, the governor's office has a restraining order, and we condemn that.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0092par0304	Yes, we do, sir, and we say you condemn it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0099par0306	But the Deputy Director of the Group doesn't say the same thing. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0100par0344	The third speaker on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group is Demir Çelik, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0101par0347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. I'd like to express that I honor and cherish the massacre of Maraş, whose 36th year we remember today, and of the 105 people who lost their lives there, Alevi, the Kurdish people. It is also the 14th anniversary of the death of 32 of our citizens in total, including 28 (28) political prisoners in Type F Prison. Once again, I wish to express my reproach and hate for those who are involved in the massacre, and to those who have lost their lives, my wish for God's mercy. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, the historic confrontation of a country that has spent 90 years in denial and insinuation is what must happen. It's not enough to solve our problem instead of confronting it, causing tensions and tensions. It won't be enough. In the name of confrontation, it is the government's duty to facilitate and meet those who go to ease the pain. The management's savings in this matter are unacceptable, we deny it, we strongly deny it. It's supposed to be a gathering of peoples, beliefs, cultures, together in the fields of free living. At this point yesterday, Mr. Putin, the President of Russia, gave us some clues to our future in a three-hour, twenty-minute speech. It's important for us to discuss this, especially today when we're discussing the National Ministry of Defense budget. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, led by the United States with one side of the United States, have forced us to fight a third official, undeclared war, consisting of Kyrgyztan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, to protect their global strategic interests, to maintain the imperial hegomonic spread. This is exactly what is going on in Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Bahrain, Yemen, and today, in Iraq, Syria, and Rojava. So our sovereigns, the global imperial forces, want to share our world with a third world war. They've handed over our land, our water, our energy resources, our education, the war of sharing our health, to the power of attorney fighters in a way that will suit their strategic interests. Today, both the transatlantic and Shanghai components fuel this war in order to take away our five basic spaces, to confiscate them: 1) They're going to reseal the legal state. 2) Privatisation will privatise our land, water, education, and health, and will put its costs and costs in public. 3) Because agriculture, livestock and food will now be offered in the service of international global monopoly, our lives will be at risk, and your production will have no value. 4) Rights and freedoms will be restricted, bans will be asked to be taken into custody by the rule of law state. 5) The stability of my administration will block the opportunity for different identities, beliefs, ideas, to be ruled freely, based on its own self - power under the name Antidemocratic practices. The Shanghai and Transatlantic agreement, apparently, will spread its conflicted state of war around the world. The fact that our President seems to be giving up the European Union means that he's going elbow contact with Shanghai and Russia, and that's what they're reading. It is now possible to talk about our freedom, our peace, a future where war will confront us with ecological destruction, along with social and political destruction. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs today are the battle of barbarism and civilization. This has been happening in our geography for tens of thousands of years. It was the battle of savagery and barbarism that took place in the early 8,000th century B.C.E. in Lower Mesopotamia, in the Hassuna culture, in the 6000th century B.C.E., in Tell Halof, in Upper Mesopotamia, and in Gobeklitepe, in modernity; and today it was the battle of barbarism, civilization, capitalism, modernity, and democratic modernity. In the 8000th century B.C.E., there was not yet a male dominant mind. There was a matriarchial society, in the maternal community, where women, partners, sharer, sharer, and peacemaker understanding, opposed society, embraced, embraced, and covered by holistic policies, not by others. There were no wars, no famine, no hunger, no poverty, no poverty. There was wealth, there was production, there was sharing, there was partnership. That mindset has been stealing our humanity -- death -- for 6,000 years -- since being subjected to hierarchy and judgment by the male sovereign system. What happened today in Rojava, today in Syria and Iraq is no more than that. Capitalist modernity or as a whole, capitalism has been sending wars to the public in the interest of protecting its strategic interests, geoeconomics, geostrategics and geopolitics. The free Syrian Army, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, and DAİSHA are in the battle of transatlantic war against Shanghai. The battle they're conducting is the war of NATO and Shanghai, but it's happening to the people, to the poor, to the workers, to the oppressed. We also bear witness to historical resistance in Kobani, in this barbaric environment. Once again, the woman intervenes in history, revealing the qualities of society that are peaceful, democratic, and inclusive, embracing, loving qualities that end, exhausted, and wanted to be consumed. It is the resistance to freedom, despite the barbaric, savage, dirty, dirty and uncompromising war of capitalist modernity, that walks in Kobani. Those who have led this historic resistance have faced an unjust point by Turkey, but with the love of millions, billions on the five continents of the world, this historic resistance has been hailed because in Rojava, in Kobani, democratic civilization against barbarism is the object of democratic modernity, rising in a fight against capitalist modernity. This fight, I hope, will ensure that for tens of thousands of years, its suffering from humanity's absence, its justice, its lack of freedom, its absence, and its peace with war and destruction. It's the search for justice, equality and freedom that we're talking about a historical scene by the YPG in Kobani, where human values have been raised by its women guerrillas, by the world's agenda, by the capitalist modernity, by our water, our land, our health, our future, but not enough but also our freedoms, against the hegemonic power of the world. In this sense today, it is the struggle of democracy and fascism in Rojava, violence for mankind, capitalist modernity and democratic modernity. It is the duty of all those who have human values to take their place in this struggle, in favor of democracy, in favor of civilization, and in favour of peace. When the people of Turkey declare that we are with Kobani, who has not fallen in 76 million for ninety-six days and cannot be dropped, we will win when we stand together against the attack and against the war. And in that sense, with just a few days left to 2015, I salute this free and together will of our will to live together in Kobani, our peace in 2015, and our freedom.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0102par0365	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the first speaker is Smurf Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0103par0368	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of National Defence bill of the Year 2015. I salute your high council. The budget of our 22 billion, 764 million, 255,000 Turkish-dollar Ministry of Defense in 2015 has been prepared for the aim of carrying out our duties under our national security policy with a high efficiency, to boost our defence strength according to the needs of the age. Dear lawmakers, in the national defense under our government's vision of 2023, our goal is to be among the top 10 countries in the defense industry developed world. Twelve years ago, Turkey had a defence industry that was almost completely dependent on international arms companies. Today, there is a new Turkey in the defence industry, which has become a national structure with more than a thousand companies, SMEs, research organizations and universities participating. We have two Turkish companies among the world's 100 largest defence industries. In 2013, our defence industry reached production power over $5 billion a year and export capacity over $1.5 billion. The Defence Industry Executive Committee, which was convened in May 2004, suspended the tender for four projects planned by foreign contractors and decided to conduct them with our own means. We've traveled considerable distances in these four projects today. First, the main combat tank project, our ALTAY tank, has been discovered, and the ALTAY Project is very close to the mass production stage. Our second project is an attack helicopter project, and our national attack helicopter ATAK is now in production, our 6 ATAK helicopters have been completed, and our Army Command has been inventory. The third issue is the mass production of the ANKA Project in the field of drones. The first tactical drone system will be delivered to the Army Command very soon. We continue to work on a wide range of drones, along with Karayel and Bayraktar, outside the ANCA. The fourth issue is the Corvet project, which is our national ship. It has emerged as a million warships, the first ship in the inventory of our fleet, and the contracts of the next two ships have been signed. Dear lawmakers, if these projects had been implemented in the way of the past, billions of dollars would have flowed to foreign companies, Turkish Armed Forces alone with external-dependent systems, and the country's industry would have no sediment. On the other hand, nearly 100 military ships and police boats to our Navy and Coast Guard Commands have been manufactured in Turkish shipbuilding sectors. After a 60-year break in aviation, our own design, the training plane, successfully completed the HURCUR test flight and signed contracts for mass production. The first conceptual designs of our national fighter plane have been completed. In response to military and civilian needs, the Original Helicopter Development Project has begun, which may be able to produce and export helicopters through joint production. With the contributions of our nation's industry, sea outpost planes have been deployed and have been our eyes and ears in our seas. As part of the Peace Eagle Project, our first air tip and control aircraft entered the Air Force Command inventory on 21 February 2014, during a ceremony held at the Main Jet Base Command in Konya. We expect three other planes to join our air force as soon as possible. The first of our 10-plane A400M transport aircraft, which we have acquired strategic air transport skills, joined the Air Force Command inventory in a ceremony held at the 12th Air Transport Base Command on May 2014. Dear lawmakers, 508 hedgehog vehicles that have protected our troops from mines have been handed over to the Turkish Armed Forces, which will reach 614, within a month or two. Large investments are being made in new-generation rocket and missile technology. The navigation missiles, the anti-tank missiles, and the guided rockets have been manufactured by our own technology. In 12 years, as in every field, in our defence industry, and in terms of military power, we have moved Turkey to a different level, thank God. AS AK PARTY, our priority is just people, society, people. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I end my words, I wish that our 2015 budget would be a blessing for our country and our nation. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0104par0386	Second speaker Suat Önal, MP of Osmaniye. Here you go, Mr. Önal.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0105par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on behalf of the Council of the Defense Industry budget, the draft of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act. On this occasion, I salute you and our beloved nation, watching over us on their television. Dear lawmakers, in order for a nation to survive, maintain independence and have international power, it must be strong in the military and therefore in the defence industry as well as in any area. In 2002, when the EC PARTI came to power, our defence industry, which is 80 per cent out-dependent and in the monopoly of international arms dealers, experienced a strategic transformation with rational decisions and rational steps taken during the period of our government when our policy on Turkish defence industry was redesigned, and as a result of that, it reduced its dependency to under 40 per cent per cent per day. Today, we can proudly say that at least 60 percent of the needs of our defence industry are covered by our own production from the domestic market. So in the past, our export-based defense spending, which has been a heavy burden on our economy, has been reduced, has become a huge addition to our national defense industry. Dear lawmakers, we can say with pride that more than a thousand of us today have been able to produce defence systems that have critical technology as a result of the co-operation and brainstorm of our companies, COBIs, research organizations and universities. We have two companies today, including 100 of the world's largest defense industry companies, as our most valued congressman before me specifically pointed out. AsELSAN is ranked 67, and TAI is ranked 80, and we are proud of it as a Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, our defence industry has become the largest investment in RD and technology in our country by spending 1 billion dollars a year on product and technology development. As of last year's defense industry, we've reached production power over $5 billion and export capacity, which is $1.5 billion. One of the 2023 goals is our country's entry into the top 10 most advanced countries in the field of defence industry in the world, and our need for defence industry for our security in this difficult geography is our national defense industry. Dear lawmakers, we have very important defence projects conducted in the field of land, sea and aviation by our Defense Industry Undersecretary. The ALTAY main combat tank, the Milgem warship, the coast guard search rescue ship, the ANKA mini-human drone, the Turkish design training aircraft, the ATAK helicopter, the ECTÜRK satellite is only part of it. Dear lawmakers, for our armed forces, the new generation of high-tech modern infantry rifles, long-range obuses, low and mid-altitude air defence missiles, laser guided javelin missiles have also been launched. Again, a project has also been launched to develop a unique fighter plane. Another joy is the development of all software of our original war systems in Turkey. With the national will, the selfless work and the synergy created, the Turkish defence industry continues to grow and grow stronger every day. On this occasion, once again, I wish you all the best of the 2015 budget by expressing that the trust of our beloved nation is in good hands, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0106par0398	His third speech is Osman Love Bak, İstanbul MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0107par0401	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY group on the 2015 budget of our Ministry of Youth and Sports. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Our Ministry of Youth and Sports has invested in youth and sports, and our country's future generations have the best opportunities in all areas. One of the most important powers we have is our young men, our greatest treasure. In order to ensure that they become physically and spiritually healthy individuals, work continues at all speeds to make the sport large, to spread the sport to the bottom. Our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a former athlete and you know how important he is to our youth. With his support, our rise and build-up in sports continues to increase. Our young are today's energy, our futures' guarantees. Our country has more treasure than any other country. In our 62nd government programme, Mr. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has stated that sports is not only a means to evaluate free time, but also an important tool to socialize and be a healthy society. We aim to bring up generations who have embraced sports culture, moved beyond being spectators, who have made sports a part of their everyday life. As in every field, in sports, we increase our activity in the world day by day. In this framework, we are successfully hosting international championships and college games. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have completed the report and submitted it to the Parliamentary Presidency of our commission to investigate the drug problem in Turkish sports, which I'm chairing. I'd like to welcome all my fellow commissioners and commissioners who have contributed and provided information to the commission's work. I also want to thank Mr. Akif Çazatay Kılıç, our Minister of Youth and Sports, who has supported commission work in the process. Our wish and our expectation is that the anti-doping law will be passed immediately and that the fight against doping will be carried out effectively in accordance with the recommendations laid out in the report. The principle "zero tolerances against drugs" applies to our Ministry without compromise. As a result of these studies, 1,579 checks in 2013, the number of anti-doping violations dropped from 176 to 58 at 2.238 control in 2014; 27 of them were bodybuilding and 31 were Olympic majors. In 2013, when the number of Olympic majors was 133%, it was 9.4%, and in 2014, the number of active struggles brought it down to 31.5 percent. The world average is 1.1%. The Symposium for Sciences and Studies of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), which our minister and I have attended as speakers, was held in Istanbul from 28 October to 29 October 2014. In this symposium, WADA President Craig Reedie stated that Turkey's fight against drugs against zero tolerance should be an example to other countries, and Turkey is on a very good road to fighting doping. I think we can apply to sports against any danger that threatens our youth, and as a sports lover dedicated to sports management for many years, I would like to say that our Ministry will sign up for very productive work in this field. We all know the actions our government has taken in dealing with drugs in recent years. On 25-26 November 2014, it was held with the participation of our Prime Minister. There's been a national drug-fighting event. A separate study group was formed under the title Youth and Sports. This is because it is now predicted that an effective fight against drug addiction can be fought through sports as a threat to the smallest student's age groups. I think that through sports, the amateur spirit and community solidarity that we miss can be strengthened. There used to be amateur sports clubs in our neighborhoods led by athletes, and we've all seen that these clubs are useful not only to promote sports, but also to protect the youth of the neighborhood and its children from the dangers of drugs. I give my regards and greetings to our brothers, who are presidents and executives in our amateur sports clubs. They are brave and heroic people who struggle amateurically for youth and sport. I find it very helpful to increase support for amateur sports clubs. On one thing, I want to make it clear that the opposition said there was no success. Our basketball team, which was the world's second place in 2010, was 12 Giant Adams, world champion Taha Akgül, our Wrestling Milli team, the world's second-place champion, our wrestling national team, our taekwondoers, our karate players, our world champions, that shouldn't be wronged. They're trying to represent this country as best they can. I wish our 2015 budget was a blessing, with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0108par0413	The fourth speaker is Osman Çakır, Düzce MP. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0109par0416	Mr. President, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I have made a pledge on the budgets of Sports General Directorate and Higher Education Loans and Homes Association. First of all, I salute our beloved nation and the esteemed members of our House. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have endeavored to raise generations that will carry themselves into the light climates that will fulfill their ideal and longings for their own image, since it is the essential condition to remain a nation throughout history to sustain and ensure its future. He has always mobilized material and spiritual resources for this. In our literary history, they have said that they want to say to the new generations by the name of the poet Nabi. Mehmet Akif also said to the new generations by the name of Sunbulzade Vehbi, Lütfiyet, Tufik Fikret. Necip Fazil, in his case, states that our youth is pure and innocent. The youth that has not completely lost its essence is the resurrection. We're working on our burnt and boiled hands, dot-dotted fingers, drawing blood into our fingernails. It's a whole youth we're trying to shape. His name is Anatolian youth. As a matter of fact, the image of a pure Anatolian boy appears in a poem by the Turk of Sakarya. The pure child of Asia Minor is gone. The naive boy is awake. The innocent Anatolian youth has gone, the upright Anatolian has come. The young people of Asia Minor, who were interested in wisdom, who were technicalized, said, "That's enough now. Now there's a youth who's grown up saying how to build his own gun, his tank, his helicopter, his machine, his engine, his electronic device. This youth has been standing for twelve years, leaning on its nation and its Lord. For 12 years, a standing generation has been trying to restore and revive the youth of this country, by avoiding all attacks, corruption, provocation, extinction, eradication, and all that has been done. We have opened more than 170. We aim for 250 universities in 2023. We're fighting to bring back all the young minds that have migrated out of our country in parallel, vertical ways for over a hundred years since Tofiq Fikret's haluk. We aim for all our children to see higher education. At the same time, we provide all kinds of help and support for these young people to provide housing, education, both to satisfy their needs for life and to contribute to their education. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were founded on August 16, 1961. The institution's duties are to provide housing services for higher education students, to provide cash support for their students by providing scholarships, student loans and feeding aid, to provide social, cultural, sports and so on. The Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes provides a total of 7,418 personnel. The institution's budget reached 444m Turkish liras in 2002, while 5 billion 862 million 584000 Turkish liras increased 12 times in 2014. In parallel with corporate growth, the 2015 budget was designed as the 7 billion 52,675,000 Turkish liras, with an increase of 20.30 per cent according to the 2014 budget. Scholarship and loan services are the sole authority to grant scholarships and loans on behalf of the institution's state. This enabled more students to be helped by preventing repeatedness. In 2002, 451,550 students receive loans, while in 2014, 881,427 students receive scholarships for a total of 1,245,325 students, including a student loan and a scholarship to 363,908 students. The loan, given at 45 lira in 2002, was agreed today at $300, 600 lira for graduate students, 900 lira for PhDs. The institution performs all the services necessary for students who continue to study well, in modern environments, in peace and security homes, as well as for their healthy and balanced diet, social, cultural and sporting development at the proper price. I'd also like to clean up something here, not $2.20 for breakfast, but $2.30 for breakfast, and $4.50 for evenings, not for children. In 1961 there were 3 counties and 18 dorms, and in 2014, 81 provinces, 149 districts, 391 dorms, where 355,890 students were sheltered. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish this year's budget of 2015 to bring blessings, and I thank our Minister and staff for all the work that has been done, and I wish them well.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0110par0433	Fifth speaker Vedat Demiröz, Bitlis MP. Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0111par0436	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Finance Ministry budget for 2015. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. Our 2015 budget is designed to include our country's political and economic preferences, but in no way is the election budget. Creating without disrupting financial discipline includes growth and employment boosting, however, current deficits and inflation reduction measures. In fact, he's been treated with a little too much caution and a firm stance. Dear lawmakers, the principal principle of taxation is to be taxed more than less than less than more than the winners. Today, 85 per cent of our budget revenues are made up of taxes. Yes, the proportion of indirect taxes among taxes is higher than those of direct taxes. What can be done about it? What are the measures that can be taken? The Ministry of Finance is still working on it. I'd like to talk to you about a few things that we've discussed for a long time in the Plan and Budget Commission. Corporate tax can be converted into increasing proportional system form. At the moment, a 25 per cent portion of the tax on 20 per cent of institutions can be added to the tax. Part of the institution's earnings may be forced to be distributed or applied. Real estate investment partnerships must be taxed during the distribution of profits. There's no corporate taxes anyway, so let's at least get a tax notice. Taxation of zoning in real estate must be properly organised. 35% of income tax slices must be removed. The levels in the other slices must be increased. It should include an income tax statement from a free professional who is content with 17 per cent of detention, such as sound and film artists.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0112par0440	Do you realize what you've done?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0111par0441	Doctors must be auto-controlled with their prescriptions, lawyers' notarized power of attorney, counselors' contracts and declarations. Real estate and car sales must all be included in the banking system. The new income tax bill is currently in the lower commission, where we continue to negotiate, and their criteria for taxing real estate sales with floor-to-floor or revenue-sharing models. We'll get this out as soon as possible and put it into practice. Sales must be audited and recorded with internet and credit cards. After de-inflation of interest revenues, the over-the-top must be taxed. The Tax Code must be rewritten according to today's conditions and review issues such as evaluations, reviews, criminal procedures, compromises. The Mark Tax Act must be dealt with quickly and the copy must be terminated. The stamp tax ceiling must be raised. The state tenders should end with a 1 per cent stamp tax, such as 0.5 per cent and 1 per cent of the payments. This amount, taken from the total amount of 2.5 per cent, is not justified. The deadline must be shortened, and the content must be clear and clear. The Tax Control Board must focus on internal education. In order for the reports to be accurate and adequate, the powers and responsibilities of the report-reading boards must be reconsidered. The construction industry must be dealt with, especially in terms of VAT extradition. The second registration, foreign flag, business rights and rental issues must be rearranged. The number of taxpayers must be increased and the work of promoting taxes on the basis must be accelerated. Minister, we say the Treasury Department is the essence of the state. The Treasury represents the government's weight, and we agree. The finance has two important instruments, such as taxes and tuition and control of public spending. The Ministry of Finance should hold separate meetings with sectors and listen to their problems, instead of interfering with their tools. The economic stability should be activated not only by monetary policy but also by finance policies. With these thinkers, I wish you all the best in our 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0113par0448	Thank you. The sixth speaker is Zeki Aygün, Aldeli MP. Mr. Ayday, your time is six minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0114par0453	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group on the budget of the President of the IRS of 2015. I salute our coven. The Chairman of the IRS has adopted from its organisation as a duty and a vision and a mission for all those who have served him, not only with a duty to pay taxes, but with the awareness of being a citizen. Dear lawmakers, credibility has an important place among the basic principles and values of the Chairman of the IRS. This institution, which is important in the country's economy, and all state institutions, operate under political will. Therefore, the IRS's accountability to the Parliament is primarily political accountability. With that dignity, the political will that takes the public's trust ensures stability, strengthens the country's economy, does so through public trust and service institutions. As long as his services are appreciated by the public, he gives authority to a politician who serves him every four years. No, otherwise, he'll take the politician who can't give him enough service, and sometimes he'll wipe it off the political stage completely, and he'll have a lonely sign. Let's see how the political institution that gets people's trust serves the public, and what economic results have been achieved in exchange for that trust. Our country's transition to democracy is between 1950 and 2002, and in general, coalitions have been the country's years of economic loss. By itself, Turkey, under the rule of the ruling authorities, has always moved forward and provided development. Dissolved by the development of our country, the spoils tried to block politics. During this process, our nation reiterated in the 2002 elections the statement that those planning on our country, the stance of politics, the behavior of institutions, and how the economy was delivered to the IMF as a living witness: enough is enough, the word and the decision is for the nation! He can't even be a muhtar. The first in the history of politics of the world, he single-handedly brought the AK PARTY to power in the first year of his establishment. It's because a heart-opening, prosperous citizen lost confidence in those who created the following economic picture when making this decision. If we take a look at the 2002 macroeconomic table: $230 billion per GDP, $3.492 per person, $3.492 per person, $36 billion in foreign trade, $23.5 billion in debt to the IMF, interest at 70 per cent, debt rate of non-national, 74 per cent in debt rate, 63 per cent in debt. Let's take a look at the macroeconomic values of our people, which we put ahead of them in 2013 -- $822 billion per person, $10.807 per person, 158 billion in foreign trade, 158 billion in debt zero to the IMF -- the last installment was paid on 14 May 2013 -- the debt rate of non-existent nationalization is 36.2 per cent -- over 50 per cent of these European Union criteria -- is entering a dangerous class of interest rate -- the interest rate of 7.6 per cent in interest, the interest rate of 1.6 per cent in debt to the state, the interest rate of 1. When we compared the numbers, we raised the economy three and a half times, reduced the interest to a single digit. If our country had continued to borrow at 63 per cent in 2002 by 2013, $642 billion would have gone into the pocket of the interest lobby. Since we have reduced the interest to 4.5 percent, the money remains in our treasury. This money has returned as services that we can't count on in the field of health and education, including double roads, fast trains, airports, MARMARAY, health and education. With this money, the defence industry, which defines a country's independence as real, has taken huge steps. We've made our national ship, our ALTAY tank, our missile, our satellite, 70 percent domestic production in the aircraft industry. The global interest lobby and its domestic partners, which are uncomfortable with the growth of the global power in its region, which has grown from the 26th economy in the world to the 16th economic size, have planned to overthrow its ruling by antidemocratic methods, which they cannot defeat democratically. These plans: travel, parallel betrayal, Kobani perception operations. We can talk about these plans for hours. Of course, the main goal of these plans is to bring down our country's economy, create political and economic conditions before 2002, and prevent this nation from prospering. This Necip nation, because it saw these games so well, made its final statement by throwing three general parties in three local elections, two referendums and the last presidential election, to those who had a roof over the nation's heads and slapped the Ottomans. Those who attack the AK PARTY with trials, corruption and tapes ignore our union with our nation. We tell our nation these facts in the field four days a week, listen to their problems, and sincerely try to find solutions. I salute the High Assembly and our beloved nation who listen to us on the screen, wishing to meet at the budget meetings where the IRS will answer for our goals in the economy 2023, 2053, 2071. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to bring up a fact here from this stand. I'm saying to friends who are out there, using their minds to wear down the betrayal policies of the parallel structure, their plans for treason, 17th and 25th December AK PARTI. These honest friends, who have been finished before the trial, and who are now at TMSF. I will tell them how you stole $3.5 million of Mustafa Sarıgül's money in the 2014 local election as a lifeline. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0115par0466	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0116par0467	Here you go, Mr. Sky, I give you my word because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0115par0470	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who just spoke here, mixed the straw with the handle.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0117par0471	That's what it sounds like to you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0115par0472	Mustafa Sarıgül is the mayor of our party and the Republican People's Party is not in power at the moment. Share whatever documents you have, whatever information you have. If there's a judgment on such a matter, and there's a judgment on it, we do it all the time. But if you think you're going to shut down the biggest corruption operation in the history of the Republic of Turkey on December 17th-25th by putting another incident ahead of him, you're wrong. Why did the minister resign? If the Minister and AKP Group respond to the question, we will only be convinced. Why did he resign? Why was he resigned? The investigation commission has now been established, and in this case, which has injured the entire public conscience of society, of course, Congress will do its part. Let no one stand behind corruption, let us be together here: If there is corruption, I will stand behind it. He has no right to say, he will stand against it, he will answer. We too are determined to ask our share of the accounts. We are determined not to hide anything, but to do what is necessary, to do what is necessary, to do what is necessary. You guys should be like that, and you should be like that in the first place. It is not for anyone to cover up corruption; rather, it is our duty to fight it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0117par0475	Mr. President, I'd like to take a word with you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0118par0476	Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0117par0477	The court's ruling he's told is that before the 30th of March elections, both the administrative court and the district court...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0119par0478	Charge the D.A.'s office, process it, why don't you do it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0117par0479	...he kept doing it and decided against it. Here's the file, I'll give it to whoever wants it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0120par0480	Don't do what you have to do, you have the power. You're the power, do what you have to do! 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0121par0518	Seventh speaker Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0122par0521	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the public tenders budget of 2015. I hereby salute the High Council. As you know, a public-run service presentation during the AK PARTI ruling period has led to radical reforms under public administration in order to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability. The center of public service is not the master of the citizen, but the understanding of being a servant of the citizen. The Law on Information has been passed in this framework, which highlights transparency and accountability in public financial management through Law 5018. Public institutions are obliged to prepare strategic planning and action reports and share them with the public. The new Court Act 6085 and the Court's audit have been increased, and the role of parliament in auditing public resources has been strengthened. The Public Contraction Agency established in our country in 2002 to ensure that the public tender system is functioning in good health, has important tasks and powers under the principles of transparency, competition, equal treatment, trust, public control and the principles of meeting the needs in proper terms and time. What are the main duties and powers of the Public Contraction Agency, and I'd like to share them with you: to resolve applications for operations carried out through the tender process; to prepare public tender legislation and to develop and apply the secondary legislation regarding them; to determine the basic and procedures for the tender ads and to publish the Public tender bulletin. Again, there is the challenge of directing the tender processes in an area consisting of over 25,000 willing individuals, a purchase market with $100 billion per year, and over 25,000 administrations playing a part in this market. However, the institution successfully performs its duties. To understand the importance of activities carried out by the institution, you must first look at the numerical data on the area of the institution's operation. I'd like to share these with you. A total of 116,929 tenders were held in 2013, including purchases of 45,871, 25,277. The size of public purchases in 2013 is 105.5 billion Turkish liras. The number of tenders held during the period is evident. In 2013, 5,093 complaints reached the institution were investigated, and only 773 cases were filed in the administrative court against the board's decisions as a result of these reviews. Dear lawmakers, I would like to bring to you the following information: There are 116,929 tenders in total, 5,093 complaints are being made concerning these tenders, and only 773 appeals to the administrative judiciary. So it's being resolved by the rest of the institution. It is understood that about 85 per cent of the inconsistencies in the tenders under the law for 2013 have been resolved by the Public Relations Agency without resorting to the judicial path. The data I'm talking about is very important in terms of the institution's point of view of complaints and the satisfaction of the services of the institution's decisions. By 2014, a total of 56.3 billion euros was made available under the first six months of data. During the first ten months, 3.231 appeals were applied for regarding these tenders. In addition to this improvement in the content of the decisions made regarding complaint applications, improvements have been made in the process of resolving the applications. According to 2013 data, the tender processing file for appeals to the institution has been reduced to under 20 days of average time until it has been decided to reach the institution. Again, the agency's website shows a commitment to the public as to how long it will take to complete the service standards table and which service will be completed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think this practice should be appreciated as a reflection of the understanding of the public service of the AK PARTI powers. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best of luck in our 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0123par0540	The eighth speaker is Abdulkerim Gök, MP of Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0124par0543	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the Privatisation Administration's 2015 budget. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, when we look at privatisation, actually the main dimensions, I'd like to continue by saying that there are hours of extremely efficient, efficient debates in the Plan Budget Commission, and that we're taking advantage of it. Dear friends, privatisation... of course, criticisms are being made, but when we consider privatisation on our own, it's useful to answer questions whether privatisation is actually being used effectively, whether it's efficient or not it's being used in its place, whether it's necessary or not. At the same time, it is beneficial to consider the open boundaries of the changing world together in an environment where the economy is on an unrestricted scale. In this short five-minute period, I actually think that privatisation plus and minuses should be debated beyond the scope of this conversation. Of course, all the paradigmal changes in the world, the understanding of statehood, economics economies and all the approaches in economic sense are very important here. Looking back, we see that privatisation, especially from the 1980s, is of great interest to our country's economy. So, what do we see? The number of privatisations before the AK PARTI's rulings is about $8 billion in dollars. However, with the AK PARTI authorities, it has a figure of 61 billion dollars. So, were these used properly? Dear friends, these developments that we've made in macroeconomic performance today are actually the main indicator of these revenues from privatisation revenues being used effectively, efficiently and in its place, so we haven't paid interest on privatisation revenues. With your permission, I'd like to remind you of the testimony of Mr. Sumer Oral, who was then Minister in 1999, which we all called "The Plan" Budget. I shared it with them today, and they made a copy of it as a souvenir. The headlines of the newspapers are valuable lawmakers: Turkish, boast, work, pay interest. Now, from that day on, we don't pay interest. We don't pay interest with privatisation revenues.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0125par0547	Don't! Who pays 50 billion TL every year? You pay $1 billion a week. Then why did you put $50 billion in the budget?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0124par0548	Of course, there have been those who advocated privatisation, although there have been many good discussions here, all of them, all of them, all of them, very high-level debates. In fact, there have been people in the government paradigm who have considered them ideologically. So is it the necessity of state policy, or is the basic function of the state we know is to return to those basic functions in education, health and defense? We don't view privatisation as a pure income, but we also want companies that will fight the private sector in competition to take a form that will appeal to the environment. So, in the context of privatisation, the paradigmal change that we've established is actually useful to evaluate with the dimensions of the globalized world. You might say, "Was not privatisation necessary?" But we know that we use our privatisation revenues, which were active and in place, for years on the back of the state, in the conditions of that day, perhaps without the monetary response, but today with very important figures, in our economy. I wish that our country, along with the benefits of the global world, would end my promises, believing in the necessity of privatisation and the use of other revenues within the framework of the next 2023 vision, would bring prosperity, peace, and love to our country in 2015. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0126par0552	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0127par0553	Yes, Mr. Oral, you have a voice request. What do you want to say? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0126par0555	They just mentioned a statement about me in 1999.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0127par0556	Is this about sarcasm? What did he say?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0126par0557	Yes, yes, without teasing...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0127par0558	What did he say, sir? For what?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0126par0559	That's when he expressed the number I said about interest in a different way, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0127par0560	Here you go, Mr. Oral. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0128par0564	He also said we don't pay interest today. He also said, "Mr. Minister, let the record show how much they've paid.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0129par0565	50 billion, 50 billion; 50 billion a year!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0130par0568	Mr. President, what Mr. Sky said, what he said, my statement was June 1999. I am the Minister of Finance of the 57th Government on May 28, 99. I'm making a statement that has not been completed for 30 days, and that statement was in the form of a temporary budget in 99, and I'm here to present it. Well, that's the painting from that day. Consider the figures and conditions of the year 99 and 2000. He didn't get the figures when he took office on November 18th of 2002, as you did. When that government took over, inflation was 69 percent, and when it handed it over to you, it became 29 and the following year it went down to 18. It is not the result of one year's economic policies, but of the rate of descent in inflation in 2002. From 2003 to today, you haven't narrowed down 18 inflations to a single digit. On that day, of course, in order to pay for them, along with the IMF, we applied a program that included his knowledge. That program was implemented, the banks' system was healthy, all the deficits of public banks were covered, and they ended up with a little extra interest. And we have to split the interest in 2002. Part of this is the interest of debt to finance the budget, some of it is the interest of paying to strengthen the financing structure of public banks and private banks. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If not, the interest of the 99 is so......... we're paying the interest of the world again today. In that sense, when you say those numbers, you have to tell them their dates, and tell them that we've just received the government. The terms of that day. In that way, I mean, your history thing never really worked out. Especially you, Mr. Sky, I don't see it at all. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0131par0575	Thank you, Mr. Oral. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account Yes, ninth speaker, Feramuz Üstün, member of the Silver House. Your Honor, your time is four minutes, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0132par0616	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over the budget of the Ministry of Finance Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation in 2015. I salute you all. On the occasion of the anniversary, I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who lost their lives in the events of Sivas, Çorum, and the Claves, and I wish that God would never again bring these events to this country. Dear lawmakers, the changing needs of information users of capital markets that are developing globalisation, the increasing needs of foreign investors, scandals in international dimensions and negative impacts on the economy, have made control indispensable. In particular, in the 2000s, major financial scandals and effects in the United States and the European Union remained, and some measures have been taken to ensure that confidence will be established on the basis of these negatives. As such measures were taken in the European Union, our country and Turkey have been organised to establish control standards and accounting standards. So there are about 9,500 experts that were established by the organisation in 2011, which he authorized and commissioned, but most of them are in our major cities. Today, especially as we listen to our friends in the opposition, our Master, Republican People's Party MP, says that Asia Minor is going backwards in terms of trade, that many of our cities have weakened as trade, which we all have to join. Maybe it's because of the mistakes of our 80-year, 90-year plan. The public's mandatory investments are stored in 20 per cent of the country, in the Marmara region, in a region, in a region. Nearly 90% of tax revenues are obtained from five or ten provinces. In many other developments, it doesn't even cover the cost of the tax collected when we collect our primary provinces. We see a decline, especially after the 2005 Metropolitan Law, in our people, who flocked from Anatolia to the slums of each election, and settled in the major cities in some way. I keep saying that somewhere, I believe public obligatory services should be transferred to Anatolia. We're already entering a fast period of transport, including the Plan Budget Commission, whatever there is in other environments, including the recruitment troops, about 70 per cent of the country that we don't actively use in the various provinces of Anatolia, including the military troops. In a time when you've connected fast trains to all four sides of Turkey, maybe those who think about the economy, our investors can't just go and start a factory, but man...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0133par0622	Didn't you just talk to him two days ago?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0132par0623	Two days ago, I spoke for our Bayburt MP because he was sick, so I spoke for him. I'm speaking for myself again this time. So, I want all of us to be happy and happy in this country, which is our common home. I'm saying that what we can do is... we can make criticisms, we can criticize each other, but we can't ignore the progress in the country, the beauty in the country. I wish our 2015 budget to be a blessing. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0134par0628	The tenth speaker is Metin Ashünk, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Ash.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0135par0631	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and our esteemed citizens who are watching us on their screens. I've made a commitment to the AK PARTY Group on the income budget in the 2015 Budget Bill talks. Dear lawmakers, the budget of the state seems to be a direct part of the economy, but in essence the budget is a political concept because it's the most fundamental step that determines where the resources are assigned and where they're directed. With action, state budgets should be a friend of the public, not of unnecessary red tape, unnecessary military spending, unnecessary security; but of more resources to human, education, health, and social security. It's not a success, and it's not a sustainable situation, even if a growing state gives a budget surplus by constantly investigating bureaucracy, strengthening its central structure. The budget is also a very important tool that regulates revenue distribution. The latest global crisis has revealed the dissolution of wealth and income distribution. Globally, in southern and eastern countries, income is between $100 and $300 per person, while in northern and western countries, it reaches 10 to 20 times the other half. The idea that this inequality and injustice between the eastern and western countries will not change is no longer accepted by our geography as a scientific fact, but an obsessive ideology. How do we change this unacceptable situation? That's the question we need to answer. Remember, with his opposition, this is the question that every individual in this geography should answer, either in Africa or Southeast Asia, or in the Middle East, or in our own country. This question is not just an economic question today, and the answer cannot be answered within the limits of the economy alone. That's why the budget makes sense again. What is unacceptable is that the budget is a tool to change that fact, because today, the eastern countries within the national borders, which can compensate for the inequality of income and wealth, will take the first steps of a new development, a development model. So, how do we do that? Look, let's go back a long, long way and I'll offer you a budget model from there. In pre-capitalism, agricultural societies have a strong relationship with the crisis of the economy and nature. The great droughts meant times of famine and crisis, but a period of relative abundance would begin right after the famine. The ideal economic model here is called the Great Joseph model. The model is very simple -- it's said to be seven years in the abundance period -- and the savings of food are distributed to the public during the drought. However, there are two important, profound details in this legend: planning during the abundance, during the non-crisis period, and not giving unnecessary disclosure here; this is lesson number one. But the second lesson is more important: their savings during the time of plenty are to distribute to its owners, the people, during the famine. The understanding and states that kept capitalism alive only applied the first lesson of Joseph's model as a desperate rule of neoliberalism from the early '80s, but in times without crisis, they didn't give it back to the people in times like today. Today, in the back streets of the United States, in Eastern Europe, that is the cause of hunger in Africa. They did the opposite; they armed the government, the states, into a war machine, strengthening the central structure. As a result, rich and militant states have developed a monopoly-based capital class that is constantly growing in the path of these states. This class continues to suck the blood out of the world. I greet you with a hearty greeting, with an understanding of a budget that will collect and embrace its people during the rising times of prosperity, against the sucking of this blood.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0136par0638	Thank you. On behalf of the person, Mehmet Ali Okur is the MP of Kopeeli. Here you go, Mr. Reader.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0137par0642	Mr. President, I have been promised to speak in favor of myself in the 9th round of the financial year budget bill talks in 2015. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the 2015 budget is a budget designed to boost stability, prosperity and economic resistance and aim to meet the needs of the social state. The EC PARTY's success in many of the economy's units, particularly financial discipline, is decisive, stable, and has our nation's confidence and support for us. Dear friends, the confidence established during the 12-year period of AK PARTI power, the stability built, the democratic reputation achieved by great determination and effort is a work of politics that shows the courage to resolve all our country's issues. If a democratic order has begun to take root in our country today, if our economy has been among the world's most stable growing economies, if our future vision has shown a surprising challenge in the face of the global crisis, if our future vision has been clear in solid steps, the main dynamic of this success is undoubtedly the pure politics of the nation. Mr. President, we've built schools, universities, dams, hospitals, roads, bridges, railways, building dwellings. That's all we're doing for the future of our people, our children, for the welfare of our children. We are aware that the most important act is the construction of hearts. My dear friends, there are people at the heart of politics. The understanding that man exists not for the government, but for the people. In accordance with this understanding, let the state live. Our party, acting on its philosophy, puts one at the heart of all its policies. We've never had the struggle and the effort to make ourselves like certain people, to get someone to accept us. People like us, people appreciate us, it's enough for us. We said politics was done with the nation, they were done for the nation, and we never deviated from that principle. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish economy has found a solid ground in 12 years. It also moves decisively on this solid ground. Our economy is not affected by the smallest wind, as it has been in the past, but by the smallest global fluctuation, the balance is not overturned. Turkey's economy no longer drifts away from inside or outside sabotage. Once again, let the actors of the former Turkey acknowledge that the winners in this country will no longer be elites, elites, certain capital circles, but 76 million Turkish nations who will win in Turkey. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've opened universities in every province, we've built airports, we'll continue to do so. We paid off the IMF's debt, and became loaners to the IMF. We built Marmaray, and brought together the two continents under the sea. We introduced Turkey to the fast train, and we will continue to meet many of our provinces on the fast train. My dear friends, we've become satellites in space. Just last week, at TÜBITAK Gebze Campus, our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we performed the signing ceremony of the Turkish National Telecommunications Project 6A. In 2002, sports investments of $63m increased 15 times to 967 million TL, as of 2013. In 2002, the loan and housing institution's budget, which was $494m, increased by 1,000 per cent to $5 billion,860m. Yeah, I'm on it. Our defence industry, which was 80 per cent dependent on the outside of 12 years ago, has achieved a structure today that has mobilized all production power in this area, providing the participation of more than 1,000 of our companies, our SMEs, our research institutions and our universities. Yes, dear friends, there are many other services. Time isn't enough for that. Our defense industry works, our Credit Homes, our Sports Department shows all their work. As I put an end to my words, the 2015 financial year budget has been involved in the preparation of our finance minister, our ministers, in the first place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...to our president and members of the Plan and Budget Commission, all of our friends, all of our bureaucrats. I wish you all the best luck in the budget. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit04spe0138par0659	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue our ninth round budget talks. The commission and the government are in place. The first speaker on behalf of the government is National Defence Minister Ismet Yilmaz. Your time is 15 minutes, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0139par0007	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. The world is in a transitional phase in an increasing environment of instability and insecurity. Eliminating the risks and threats caused by the turmoil caused by this transition process is the main test of our foreign policy. During the transformation, our country is aware of its regional and historical responsibilities, continuing its policies focused on human and peace. After the Balkans, Caucasus and especially the Arab Spring, conflicts in the Middle East and the Sahara Sahel region have become multi-sided, asymmetrical and complex, moving beyond the threat of classical war under the influence of terrorism, cyber attacks, illegal migration, weapons of mass destruction. In this process, being strong in our territory, the island of peace and stability is more important and more difficult than ever. There is a ring of fire around our country, which has land and sea borders with many countries. Within this circle are strategic developments that will deeply affect Eurasia's security architecture. In this regard, the developments in Ukraine cause deep security concerns for our country and other countries in the region. The unresolved conflicts of South Caucasus, Abkhazia, and South Ossetia, and Upper Karabuk are a barrier to the creation of peace and stability in the region. The threats posed by developments in the Middle East, especially Syria and Iraq, also require that our country be prepared for all kinds of risks and threats. Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Iraq, Syria, Libya, and Yemen are also unlikely today to predict how the slips will turn out. Our territory is being reshaped. In this scope, the main element of the country's defence and the importance of the growing Turkish Armed Forces has become more important than ever before, with increased efficiency, more qualified and beka ability, a modular, flexible, and a deterrent force structure capable of serving in any environment. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers take great interest in the preservation of NATO's military and political activities in our country's national security in an ever-changing, ever-changing environment of complexity and uncertainty. In the security environment of Europe and its environment, especially NATO member states have shown that they need to improve their military skills and increase their capacity for that. As a matter of fact, last September, the NATO State and Government Presidents Summit, which was carried out in Wales, and the member states agreed to spend 2 per cent of their illegal domestic product within ten years, while at least 20 per cent of defence spending, to supply the main weapons systems. In this framework, our country, along with other member states, has pledged to raise defence spending to 2% of the illegitimate domestic product. I would also like to point out that in 2013, our country devoted 1.74 per cent of the illegitimate domestic patient to defence spending and was ranked 7th among NATO countries. Mr. President, our goal is to ensure that our country will be able to contribute to all global and regional issues in harmony with the new conditions. Our country follows a peaceful, primitive and effective security policy, both as a single force and through its international institutions. In this direction, we are contributing to collective defence and crisis management operations, while on the other hand, we are involved in attempts to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, to promote disarmament. Our armed forces continue to contribute to their duties in Lebanon, under the United Nations; in Afghanistan, Kosovo, and the Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the European Union; in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The European Union has also begun its efforts to contribute its operations and missions in the Central African Republic and in the Financial Way under the power vested in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The United Nations and NATO are also contributing to naval operations against sea bandits, which are concentrated in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. In addition to those contributions, we continue to carry out our duties under the Black Sea Marine Co-operation Task Group and the Black Sea Sleep Operation, which aims to ensure peace and stability in the Balkans, as well as the Southeastern European Defence Minister's Process and the Southeastern Europe Peace Brigade. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we also care deeply about the development of regional and global priorities, as well as the development of military bilateral relations. So far, we've signed military training, technical and scientific co-operation agreements with 68 countries, a defence-industrial co-operation agreement with 60 countries, and a military training co-operation agreement with 53 countries. We also continue our military aid activities from 1992 with many countries with historical ties of friendship and brotherhood in Central Asia, Caucasus, the Balkans and Africa. In this scope, we signed a military, financial co-operation agreement with 15 countries in 2013 and a cash aid protocol. For 2014, the adoption of agreements with 16 countries is still under way. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, recruitment activities are another area of my ministry's operation. As it is known, 15 months of military service have been reduced to 12 months since the beginning of this year. Our citizens have been given the opportunity to make an appointment without going to military offices via e-government, to obtain military status documents and to process their transfers. In addition, our citizens who will go into the army will be able to collect their fares and food from PTT branches. With the strengthening of the technological capacity of our Armed Forces, the law was passed at cost, considering the demands of the community. The application of the relevant law within two months of its execution, including January 1, 1988, is not eligible for military service without a demand for age with those who are born before this date. The option of military service for health reports has been submitted to the recipients. The applicants will be considered military service under the condition that they pay 18,000 Turkish liras. As of 4:45 p.m. today, the number of applicants has been 20,678. There will be no administrative and judicial investigations and prosecutions of the counties, the ones launched will be terminated, and the final administrative fines for these crimes will not be collected. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in this part of my speech, I'd like to inform you about our defence industry activities. The Turkish defence industry has shown a major breakthrough recently. Thanks to the design and production of our local industry of defence systems with critical technology, Turkey's entire production power has been mobilized and a defence industry has been created today with the participation of more than a thousand companies, our SMEs, our research institutions and universities. Turkey's Armed Forces' needs, the most important indicator of the defence industry, have exceeded 50 per cent of the domestic supply rate. Our defence industry, which was dependent on about 80 per cent of foreign technology ten years ago, created a vast industrial area of high-profile national, multinational and joint venture defence industries today, consisting of highly skilled national main contractors, subsystem manufacturers, COBI, high-tech Niche companies, research institutes and universities. Today, our defence industry has reached nearly $5 billion in turnovers and export numbers at close to 1.5 billion dollars, and has become the highest RD investment industry in our country, spending $1 billion on RD. The defence industry is important in this regard: Turkey's export is just ahead of 150 billion dollars today. So the weight cost of our exports is about $1.5, but if you export the ATAK helicopter, the kilogram costs $5,000, but if you export a satellite like the KKTÜRK-2 satellite in Turkey, the kilogram export price will be $200,000. $1.5, $5,000, $200,000. In this regard, defence industry is seen as one of the sectors that will contribute greatly to the capture of our country's export target in 2023 with high-tech products. With the success of our defense programs, our armed forces' capabilities have increased with purchases based on their need for defence. In our vision of 2013-2023, we are working to get our country among the top 10 countries in the world's defense industry. In this difficult geography we live in, it's our main goal to meet all necessary needs for the modernisation of our Armed Forces with the production of our country. We see it as an essential condition of the independence of the country. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in this context, I would like to share with you some information about the defence projects that are still being conducted in our Defense Industry Undersecretary: The critical design process of our Altay main combat tank was completed this year in May and began production of two final prototypes. Tests are being carried out on two pre-prototypes that have previously been produced, for their ability to move and shoot. The series production of our Altay tank is expected to begin in 2017 and enter the inventory of our Army Command. Admission of 508 from 614 vehicles has been carried out as part of Project Porcupine, which has protected our soldiers against the mine threat. You need main support for a military battalion-sized force, under the LPD Project for the supply of a pooled extraction ship that could lead to the crisis zone. The first Turkish design training aircraft, launched in the early years of the Republic, was launched on 29 August 2013, following our aviation efforts. The Defence Industry Executive Committee for 15 mass productions was ordered and flight tests for the prototype aircraft produced under the project began on 10 September 2014. 6 helicopters have been delivered as part of the ATAK Project. We're already considering our helicopter as the best operational solution in the world in the field of asymmetric warfare and a high export potential project. As part of this project, 59 helicopters will be produced in Turkey. Again, on the way to developing a unique fighter plane, our projects continue. The development and testing activities of F-35 aircraft are under the Joint Attack Program. In the 2020s, the Turkish Air Force is expected to be a major combatant in the 2020s, along with the development skills of information fusion, invisibility and advanced sensory technologies of the F-35 fighter aircraft, which will be integrated into our national arsenal. The first two planes have already been ordered. Our country has recently been selected as the European motor maintenance and repair centre for the joint offensive aircraft, which has recently been adopted as part of the programme. Turkey's experience and expertise, cost efficiency and regional leadership in the international arena have been registered. In this way, the production and maintenance capabilities of the F-35 engine, one of Turkey's most important targets as part of the Joint Attack Project, will be achieved. In addition, from 2018, Turkey was selected as the 1st in the F-35 warehouse level maintenance service as a programme facility in front of Norway and the Netherlands to serve alone for at least three years. Again, the first of the A400M strategic transport aircraft, both design and production and logistics, which will give our country significant capability, has been delivered, along with the ground support center of three Peace Eagles, which we know as the A400M transport aircraft, which will be called the A400M, and will be a major force factor of our Air Force in 2015. We've begun the production of our modern infantry rifle. Low altitude air defense missiles have been successful. The mid-altitude missile launch has been successful, and we have launched the IMACE Project (IMACE) with the development of ground-watching satellite technology after the IKTÜRK-2 missile. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our budget for 2015 to be good for our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0140par0031	Thank you. On behalf of the government, the second speaker is the Minister of Youth and Sports Akif Çazatay Sword. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0141par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I'm here to present the 2015 budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports and its subsidiaries. As it is known, in the last 12 years, our country has made great progress to achieve its goals based on its vision of 2023. In addition to being among the largest countries in the world, our leading role in our region is also appreciated by the entire world. As we move towards these goals, the Marmaray Project, which was completed in 2013, is one of the key milestones in the world's most important projects, the third Bosphorus bridge in Istanbul, and the airport projects. The greatest treasure we have to sustain this rise is today's dynamo, and tomorrow's security is our youth. Our country has this treasure more than any other country. On the one hand, studies are being conducted to make our young people think, think, act, and be conscious individuals in the family, in the environment they live in, in the schools, and in social life, and on the other hand, sports are encouraged to be done in large numbers, one of the main elements of the development of a healthy society body and spiritual. However, housing, nutrition, scholarships, and loan opportunities have been increased beyond compare to previous times, which ensured that higher education can sustain their lives during their studies. As we run these services, the investments we need are not neglected. New constructions of facilities such as sports facilities, dorms, youth centres and youth camps that serve our young people are of particular importance, while modernisation is under way so that current ones can be adjusted to the present conditions. On the other hand, in order to reach a common understanding, vision, policy and goal union in the field of youth and sports, all public institutions and organisations in this area, NGOs and all related partners are being co-operated, and they are supported by the programme, the project and activities of these partners. It is our primary goal to ensure that young people are equipped with the needs of the information society, active in the development of the country, strong in life skills, confident in self-confidence, human and national values, and entrepreneurial and participating, and to improve the quality of services available to young people. In this scope, youth's action programmes will be expanded and diversified, especially to increase the participation of disadvantaged youths, which will enable them to take a more active role in social life and decision-making mechanisms. Supporting programmes, such as sports, culture, art, will continue to be implemented to prevent young people from turning to violence and harmful habits. Especially during this period of project support has been given a special emphasis on the fight against drugs. In sports, it has been determined as a healthy and dynamic way of life that sports culture is established in society, that the quality and diversity of sports services will be increased and that the sport will be spread to large populations and that the growing of successful athletes will be the main goal. As of December 2014, the number of young people who joined our youth centers in 2002, where social, cultural, artistic and sporting activities were carried out according to our youth services and demands, reached 759,097 people. This is just the number of members of our youth centers, our departmental youth centers. Our number of youth centers, 74 in 2002, has now been raised to 182. In 2016, our youth centre is intended to increase our number to 344. In our youth centres, courses are organised with the activities of literature, physics, history, art, music, education and cultural activities in areas such as reading, writing, photography, cinema, tree carving, wood writing, wood painting, fabric painting, vitray, filigraphy, kaligraphy, public plays, computer business, literature, physics, history, art, music. However, there are many self-help courses related to values education, body language, effective communication, time management, sign language, career planning, quick reading, project cycle, leadership, problem solving, negotiation techniques, crisis management and development. Youth camps are one of the major activities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In 2014, some 72,780 young people took advantage of our 18 youth camps, including the sea in 2014, and the sea in the 12th. We aim for more than 50,000 young people to benefit from our youth camps next year. In this context, our work on the creation of our new campsite and the quick implementation of them continues very quickly. As of today, we have youth camps all over our country. Our main goal here is to immunize our young people with a common consciousness from east to west, north to south. To our camps, as a whole, we accept young people who are successful in their education, but also have some economic difficulties. We determine the progress of our younger brothers and sisters' participation in the camps through our online assessment of the application. I'd like to say with great pride that our disabled youth has joined our camps. A disabled brother expressed a beautiful philosophy of life at our meeting at this year's Youth Camps Closing Programme, and we were very happy about it. Of course, our youth projects and activities continue the same way. In 2014, about 30,000 young people attended the Memorial March of the Yellowkamish Martyrs throughout the country and the victory of Çanakkale in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, 20,000 at the Malazzert Victory's 943rd anniversary ceremony, 25,000 at Dumlupınar-Zafertepe from Uştepe to Independence. In addition, 2.4 million young people have been given the opportunity to see historical and cultural sites in and out of the country. Of course, the work we're doing with our young people will also be very serious in the coming year, especially in terms of the decisions we've organised this year in the Anti-drug era. At this point, by the way, I'd like to thank Necdet Ünuvar Bey for his work. You know, our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu also opened the programme in Ankara on November 28th and 29th, and in proportion to the decisions made here, all students are trained in fighting addiction in our homes and youth centres and will continue to be given. In 2014, we supported the 122 projects of anti-drugs and NGOs as the Ministry, and we will continue this next year. However, our very serious work with Greena continues, both in terms of awareness and in terms of combat, but at the same time at the point of education of our young parents. Of course, with all these studies, there are a total of 969 projects, including 65 swimming pools, 304 youth centres, 238 sports venues, 28 athletic courses, 29 stadiums and 102 other sports facilities under protocol with TOKI and other municipalities. Of these projects, the construction of 410 is complete, the production of 360 is ongoing, and 199 facilities are in the tender and project phase. In 2014 alone, 154 sports facilities were completed. In addition, the construction of 129 new sports facilities has been adopted into the investment programme this year. In addition to this whole plumbing move, the construction of 360 sports facilities is rapidly under way and will be completed in 2015, and our country will be served in sports and youth. Of course, there has been a serious increase in our coaching numbers, but I know that the increase in our coaching numbers is not enough, and we are continuing to work on further improvements in this regard. In this regard, our number of trainers, 18,674 in 2002, has now reached 176,305 in 2014. Turkey's Olympic preparedness centres are active in 17 majors in 18 counties, and a total of 712 athletes benefit from this project. As for our support for sports clubs in 2002, the number of sports clubs operating in our country increased rapidly and increased to 13.154. Between 2002-2013, the sports club received 93 million, 794,807 lira in cash and a total of $19,605,000 in cash to the sports club in 2014. As for our fight against doping, of course, we apply our zero tolerance against doping without compromise. At this point, I'd like to make it clear that there's a separate part of our struggle with doping that's been mentioned here before. Because the Republic of Turkey has been the first country to pay special support for the support the Anti-Doping Agency has requested from member states -- known in the world as WADA -- meaning support. So in addition to the $578,488 that we have to pay in regular dues, we are the 1st in demand between member states, which is a special donation to the $550,000 WADA. I'd like to mention that in particular. Because as said earlier, the president of the International Doping Agency has made it clear in Turkey that Turkey is on the right track and that Turkey's struggle should also be modeled by other countries. In 2014, our athletes won a total of 2,342 medals -- 739 gold, 694 silver, 909 bronze medals -- with success in international competitions. Of course, since I'm running out of time, I'd like to talk to you about our work on loans and dorms right now. Of course, I'd like to thank our esteemed deputies for their positive contribution here. At the same time, I thank them for the construction of the city of Çankaya and the municipality of Beşiktaş and the dorms it offers to our students in terms of service. But I also have to say that, of course, when we look at the total number, from the two dorms that the city of Çankaya has built -- according to my information -- one home is 100 people, the other is 304 people. In the municipality of Beşiktaş, the total capacity is 200 people. The capacity for loans and housing institutions will be more than 390,000 by the end of this year, by the end of 2014. In order to achieve this 390,000 student capacity, with the investments we've made this year, we'll be able to give over 100,000 beds this year to the Credit and Homes Association. As our work continues, some figures have been expressed here. Yes, the number of students who have applied in total will be 488 across Turkey. In this case, what we refer to as what is valid is not said in any way in order to draw the number to a different point -- what we mean by the valid application is that your application is correct in terms of the system and where you apply, that you have a home, that you can settle, that you have a direct proportionality of your education, so that conditions are met. That's 417 grand. By the end of this year, our placement rate with our students within our capacity will reach 45 percent of the application. Of course, we're doing everything we can to keep up with our work and do a lot more, but at the end of this year, the capacity we're going to take over is not 47 thousand, it's 29.495. So at the end of the year, we're going to be over 390,000, with the capacity to go over 360 thousand and so on. Of course, there's one important element that we care about this year, especially this year, which is that all of the information that our students have expressed in their application forms to the Credit and Housing Institution has been co-ordinated by 11 of our institutions to verify the information they've expressed and the ranking system on the application has been made according to this. We are currently in the dorms where we have taken over, where we have put it into capacity, and our list is constantly updated and open. Of course, I thank opposition lawmakers and our ruling deputies, all of our MPs in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who have so far supported us in negotiating the budget of our institutions and our institutions. Our work on our youth is important to all of us. We are all here to join hands, together, and together, to present the greatest opportunities of our country to our young people, who are our future and who will guarantee our future. Our goal is to best coordinate these studies, and to best use the budget resources you've given us to raise our young people who will serve our nation's future, our government's future. Again, my regards to all of you, and thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0142par0064	The third speaker on behalf of the government is Minister of Finance Mr. Mehmet Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0143par0068	Mr. President, very dear MPs, and I salute you all with respect and love. I'm not going to make a classic speech, I'm going to answer some questions and issues that have been brought up all day. I think that's more useful. Now, one of the allegations is that TECEL claims that Alcoholic Drinks Anonymous was sold very cheaply.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0144par0071	He's history now, it's been years!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0143par0072	Now, this sale was made in February 2004, sold for $292 million. What is the ratio of the sale price to EBITDA, the company's EBITDA, before taxes, interest and amortization income -- which is the basis of all international value models? It's very important.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0144par0073	The amount of alcohol in the warehouses is four times that much!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0143par0074	I worked in international financial centers for 17 years, 17 years.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0144par0075	So did we. I do.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0143par0076	Mr. Young, do me the courtesy of listening.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0144par0077	Okay, courtesy, but you're talking wrong!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0145par0078	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0144par0079	Then the amount of alcohol in the warehouse is 3 times that 292 million! Please, just tell me the truth!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0145par0080	Mr. Young, why don't you sit down? Please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0081	Dear friends, in 2004, TEKEL's drinking unit was sold for $292 million, at which time its tax, interest, pre-amortism income was $22.9 million, $23 million. Now, how many times has it been sold? 12.7 times. Who sold it? The government sold it. Let's stop here. There's a private firm that bought it in 2006. He sold it for $900 million, but the EBITDA was up to $11 million. The price was sold to EBITDA 8.7 times, so the state sold to 8 times the private sector.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0147par0082	How did he get out of there, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0083	Wait. And then what happened? Did this private sector sell to the private sector for $900 million in 2011? Now, again, the private sector is selling to a foreign firm for $2.1 billion. How much is the EBITDA, so what's the value? $212 million. How many times? 9.9 times. When the government sells it, it sells 12.7 times, the private sector sells it 8 times, then 9.9 times. Now, let's talk about the allegations of Telekom. Dear friends, the infrastructure of TELEKOM was transferred until 2036 - its infrastructure.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0148par0086	2026.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0087	Sorry, 2026. Now it's eleven years away. Eleven years from now, the entire infrastructure will return to the state. So in a sense, except for the name of the company, except for the title, the entire infrastructure will go back to the government. In 2005-2014, we made $39.6 billion in revenues, including the sale price of TELEKOM. There's still 31.68 per cent of the state. Currently, the treasure has an estimated 32 per cent stake in TELECOM. There are 12 members of the board of directors of Telekom (TELEKOM). We have less than a third, and we have the right to represent almost half of it. We also have veto rights -- all the important decisions. Now to this real estate sale, real estate sale. So far, since we transferred TELECOM into the private sector, Turkish TELEKOM has sold $287 million in real estate. How much? 287 million. So, how much real estate did he buy? He bought $1 billion, $337 million worth of real estate. So, he bought four times as much as he sold TELEKOM here, as you can see. There is no reduction in the property of Telekom. The sale of the property of Telekom was taken to the Court and taken to court. The court said there's no law here. The company can make these sales. Now, I wonder what's wrong here. The third claim is: "Why don't we explain the value assessment reports on privatisation practices? Explain." In Law 4046 -- specialization practices -- the 18th article states that the identification results will be announced to the public after the completion of the institution's privatisation contract, after the completion of the obligations of the transfer agreement. Now, the value assessment results are not explained in this framework until the institution's privatisation process is completed, until investment, employment, employee issues, and the completion of installment payments and similar obligations are completed in future sales. In fact, if there's a fully completed company in this frame, I'm telling the President of the Privatisation Administration here to explain all the value assessment reports. You can't sell a company under the price set by the value assessment commission. Loud and clear. So now that the sale's been approved, there's no reason why it shouldn't be explained. Here's to criticism of the institution of compromise. Dear friends, since 1963, there has been and has been an agreement in Turkish tax law. During all governments, the IRS -- now new -- the IRS, formerly the Finance Ministry -- is set up in the country and the centre for compromise commissions, where hundreds of settlement commissions make decisions every day about hundreds of unconfirmed review reports. For example, last year we examined 71,000 taxpayers, 71,000 files. Some of them may come to compromise before or after history. Now, dear friends, I wish I could take one of these and get tax privacy out of this country and come out and tell them clearly.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0149par0091	It's all too common, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0092	Please... Now, tax confidentiality... some of these 71,000 possible cases have come to an understanding, which has been carried out by commission and bureaucracy in the countryside and the center entirely. Who's got a... now, what's the discount? For one thing, there can never be a discount or a compromise on the fixed tax, it's been confirmed.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0150par0094	There's no certainty at that stage, it's in the objection phase. What are you talking about?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0095	All of this isn't confirmed yet. Now, the law says, in what circumstances can compromise be made? If there's a tax error. Some of the reports at the Treasury Department are wrong, folks. Look, as Minister, a lot of things come up from time to time.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0151par0096	Is it always Mehmet Genghis? Is the report wrong, Mr. Secretary? Have you always been wrong about the electrode reports?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0097	Two: interpretation of the law. Now, from time to time, there are gray areas in the law, and there are different interpretations of these gray areas. In fact, I'll tell you what, it's in the law, it's in the law, it's in the legislation: Now, a case goes and the court decides against the administration, but since it's not the same company, the review report can be written on the same subject. They're considering it in compromise. If you don't, he can go to court the same way and maybe reset in the same frame. In any case, look, there's no way to download or reset a certain tax. Negotiation has been around since 1963.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0152par0098	If it's already settled, there's no compromise. You think these people are ignorant?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0099	Now, I'd like to invite you, if you have any information regarding the settlement, any irregularities of the IRS...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0153par0100	Why didn't you have the court examine it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0101	I invite you, there are courts in Turkey, there are courts in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0153par0102	Mr. Secretary, why didn't you have the Court examine it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0103	Yes, you don't trust the judiciary, you don't trust the IRS, dear friends, please, I invite you, please, don't, go give it to the Attorney Generals of the Republic.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0153par0104	We saw the D.A. of the Republic on December 17th.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0154par0105	No, why did you forgive the $5 billion of Citibank?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0106	Now, about the public auction reviews.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0154par0107	Are you in court? Then why are there courts, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0108	Dear friends, look, the Public Contraction Act came out in 2002 and went into effect at the beginning of 2003. Let me tell you something. The law has been changed before it's even in effect. Why? Because after the 2001 crisis, 15 laws were on the agenda in 15 days, and important reforms were taken out. God bless you, I appreciate who did those reforms, so I've got nothing on that, and there's been a lot of good stuff done back then. The Public Contraction Act is one of these important laws, but the Public Contraction Act... for example, there is no law on the sectors, for example, the CSCEs, for example. Now, look, there's a public contract law in the European Union, and we got part of it. Look, in the European Union, all things are exceptions, such as defence, security, intelligence, CIT. Let us take the exceptions of the European Union and take the first version of the 2002 Law. If you take the first form of the law -- if you take the law that goes into effect at 1/1/2003, if you take the exceptions of that day -- 85 percent of the exceptions are under the law that took place in 2013 at 1/1/2003, see, 85 percent. So, the law has been altered... now, unfortunately, there are two main reasons for the amendment. One of them is that the law on sectors has not been passed.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0155par0109	Why didn't you take it off?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0110	Why didn't we take it off? I gave the order, they're working, we'll get them out.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0155par0111	Mr. Secretary, it's been thirteen years, please!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0112	Now, look, if there was a law on the CIT, the sectors, most of these exceptions wouldn't be necessary. Two, we have threshold values as well as the European Union, but under the threshold, we followed the same strict rules at the time. This needs to be reviewed within the framework of the European Union's legislation. Dear friends, look, let me fill you in. Now, as of the end of 2013, 89 billion, 237 million, 530,000 liras were fully tendered under the Public Contraction Act. That's 85 percent.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0155par0114	How much outside?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0115	Wait. Now, direct supply, again, is the direct supply of this law -- that's 6 billion 433 million and 74,000 liras under the Law. There are only 24 tenders under exception, which is worth 9 billion 213 million 471 thousand, 9 percent. Now, look, 9 per cent is the exception, and 85 per cent of this is the exceptions that existed at the beginning of 2003, and I repeat, 89.35 per cent of these exceptions are caused by KİT. Nowhere in the world are the CSIs subject to a Public Contraction Act in that sense. Now, think of Turkey's Oil, Turkey's Oil will compete with BP. How can you compete with the slightest purchase if you apply it to all these processes? So look in the Public Contraction Act, take out security, defence, intelligence, and CSI. There are no proper exceptions here, and I will remove all the exceptions that exist. I'm going to rewrite this law, I'm going to bring it with zero exceptions, I'm going to break the law of the sectors, and I'm going to bring it to you, and I'm going to bring the threshold values. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, the allegations of Mr. Özdemir..
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0156par0119	All of Istanbul City's tenders...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0157par0120	Not this band!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0121	Yeah, please listen, look, I listened to you with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0157par0122	We listened respectfully, Mr. Secretary, did we disrespect you? You're welcome! But I mean, you're not telling the truth.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0123	Listen, please, listen. Look, I'm answering your questions. I could come in here and give you a lecture, give you a speech, look, I didn't choose him. I'm here, and out of respect for you, I'm answering your questions one by one. Please! Now, look, dear friends, Mr. Özdemir... That's right. In 2008, we put him on the no-go list. Who took it? The law says if he owns less than 50 per cent of a company he owns, there's no blame on the company going into the tenders. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the law says.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0157par0125	Mr. Secretary, how did Nihat Özdemir take entry, not his company, but his own?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0126	Wait, Mr. Nihat Özdemir was acquitted in 2013, so I'm going to state that as well.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0157par0127	First-degree court, not in the Supreme Court, ask your President of the Public Relations Agency.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0158par0128	Mr. Erdoğdu, please, it's Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0129	Some of our friends came and said, "Sir, the complementary grant is against the Constitution." Either that, friends, there is no such thing. See, the Constitution has its 164th article on the final account. There's Law 6085 on the Court, it says.. There is not a single regulation on the lack of supplementary grants for the grant, which cannot be claimed to be unconstitutional. On the contrary, when the Court submits its final account in 2013 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it says: "It is in the High Assembly's discretion to see whether the grant should be completed." Now, doesn't the High Assembly reflect the majority Parliament's will, the budget rights?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0159par0130	What's with the budget, then?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0131	Now, dear friends, I've explained this in a very detailed way in the Plan and Budget. They say the Ministry of Finance doesn't know the account. Look, I'll just say that in 2013, we registered 24 million dollars from 203 institutions. The only transactions of these records are over a million. We're tracking 23 million different kinds of transports in total, tracking them. We have a record of 1.6 trillion moving. The IRS keeps all kinds of records, and the IRS is working. At the end of this month, we've completed the value of three million assets belonging to the Treasury. Dear friends, as you can see, all the inventory of whether to move or not is being made. Everything we have is subject to court control. A penny is not outside the Court's control. Sir, like this, it's like we're doing extracurricular transactions...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0160par0133	Oh, my God! Has the Court examined the tax settlements?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0146par0134	And all these records are in the Court. One more claim, the number of companies has been reduced. They call it. I explained it over and over again, on the Commission, last year, here. Now, we have the taxpayers we left the reef with. Considering the taxpayers we left that reef -- we need to get it, we delete it, because from those records -- look, since 2005, the number of taxpayers of income tax has increased by 407,316, 407,316. Look, the corporate tax rate has increased by 396,085 people and increased by a large amount. Dear friends, we need to consider the release of the resen. There have been allegations that our revenue projections are unrealistic. That claim comes up about three or five times a year every year. Every year, our budget performance has been better than expected, except for 2009. 2009, of course, was an unpredictable year, the global crisis year. Now, the nominal growth rate of the illegitimate domestic product is 10.2% next year. Our increase in revenue is 10.8%. Now it's on a little bit. You know why? Because we assumed that BOTASH would fulfill its obligations. That's a reasonable assumption. The financial situation of BOTASH is likely to improve, meet its obligations, and not go into details. Now, what does MASAK do? In these investigations, what did he do as part of the investigations mentioned? Look, we did the study at the request of the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office for 25/02/2014 and reported the work to the chief prosecutor in mid-April. In addition, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has requested an expert from us as part of this latest investigative commission, and we have immediately assigned whatever it takes, whatever it takes, we've done so far. Now, about the transportation. Dear friends, how many vehicles are available in public administrations as rentals and anchors? We are at a point where we know the number of pencils. Yes, I've given it several times, I'll give it to you again -- they've acquired 96,501 in central management, 15,010 in rent, 111,511 in total. There are 83,197 vehicles in total, including 13.886, which are their own property in Mahalile administrations, municipalities, and county private administrations. The KİSCE has 4,1105/i of its own property, 8,141 vehicles, which are for rent at 4,036. In total, the public has 202,849 vehicles -- including KİSCEs, municipalities, municipal private administrations and the central government. Now, look at these vehicles, they're at 36,269 PD. Now, shouldn't there be transportation at the police station? Police headquarters... That's 38 percent, so every 100 vehicles are in the police station. 11.950 is in the Ministry of National Defence, which is 12.4 per cent. 7.249 is in the General Command of the Gendarmes. 5.375 at the Ministry of Health, mostly ambulances. Let's not take an ambulance, there's no ambulance in France... if there's only 10,000 vehicles in France, then he hasn't considered the ambulance, the Department of Defense vehicles. I mean, it's not possible in Germany, in France... Now, I'll continue, 4.372 at Food, Agriculture, Animal Ministry. 3.533 at the Ministry of National Education. That's how it goes. Well... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, can I have two minutes because I'm answering the questions?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0161par0144	Give it to me, give it to me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0162par0145	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0161par0146	I mean, you're taking it as the boss of money, Mr. Secretary, and we're not giving it to anyone else.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0163par0147	Mr. Alim, you're very kind, thank you very much. Now, dear friends, I'm uncomfortable with this vehicle, and so we've issued a decision by the Council of Ministers, and we said: "No way will the annual rent price be able to exceed 2 percent of the value of the transport. We've brought these restrictions and we can't do it now. We can't do it. You'll do it, because we'll show the precision that is necessary for them to rent vehicles and other matters. Now they say that in the year 2015, there will be such a large supply of vehicles. These have to be renovated every 20 years, every ten years. You rate it, it's a very simple thing, even if you renovate it every 15 years, these will buy only what it needs, what it needs to be renovated. Friends, 41 per cent of the vehicles on board are at the police station, 9.8 per cent at the General Command of the gendarmes, 9.4 per cent at the Ministry of Defence. Pack them up.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0164par0151	60%.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0163par0152	7.8% at the Ministry of National Education. In other public administrations, et cetera. I thank you very, very much. We'll be together for two days, and I'll be happy to answer all your questions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0165par0156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0166par0157	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0165par0158	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0166par0159	Mr. President, Mr. Finance Minister has stated in his speech that Mr. Aykut gave false information and twisted information when he spoke on behalf of our group, referring to Mr. Erdoğdu. Aykut Bey has the right to explain. We demand word from you for bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0165par0160	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu. I'll give you two minutes for bullying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You give me the right information. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0167par0167	The more I can fix in two minutes, the more I can fix. One: he speaks of the EBITDA, an English word. He will not speak of it, but the future will reveal the values of Tekel, and TELEKOM. Let's see why this orphan's rights are so low in EBITDA. There's no need to fool with EBITDA or English words. Second issue: the infrastructure of TELEKOM. The infrastructure of TELEKOM will return... Isn't real estate in this infrastructure? How do you allow it to be sold? They sold $280 million and bought over a billion. Where's the list? We've been asking for five years, and neither Ali Babacan nor you can give us the list. He's going to invest, that's how he got it, of course he has to. The other thing is, it's a court order. Attila Kart sued, did the Treasury defend this decision in court? There are five members of the Governing Body, five of whom have acted as the men of Hariri (Hariri) in every matter. Here's the other issue: They can't explain the value reports in the Privatisation Act until the privatisation is over! Who changed the law? You changed it in 2005. Right after the privatisation, when the evaluation report will be released, you're hiding behind the law you changed and then changed. He doesn't exist. You promised the assessment reports of privatisation, and those evaluation reports will come to this House, and all the people will know what you're selling to what you're selling to.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0168par0172	Consider the members of the governing body of Telekom.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0167par0173	Here's to the sale of $292 million in TECEL. His assets were filled to the brim before it was sold. It's not in the Court report? It's all there. How come he's doing so much damage in the government, and then he's in the private sector five times as soon as he passes? None of this is accurate. What else do you explain? It's a matter of compromise. There has been since 1963, of course, but in what era did 90 percent of the tax on fellow businessmen be erased despite very strong reports? If the tax had already been finalized, he'd have to pay. It's called pre-historic reconciliation. Are the Turks the only ones who have the job, the only ones who have the weak report of the Turks, Mehmet Cengiz, the one who swears at the mother of the nation? The Electromed Corporation's... All of these are AKP supporters. There's tax privacy. You're saying, why don't opposing businessmen have tax privacy? You cover all the sheets, and there's no tax privacy, and there's... there's a reputation for taxes. I'm a taxpayer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You'll know how much you erased from my taxes. There's still a matter of the Court. In the tax settlement, you say you inspected the number of tax settlements. Did you have the Court oversee the tax settlement? Did you check it out? You didn't check it out, so the Counting Law hasn't changed? You're missing information on dozens of subjects. It's a shame, it's a sin; you've got deputies here. That's not true, Mr. Mehmet. I don't think so. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0169par0179	Who the hell are you to look forward to?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0167par0180	What do you mean, who are you? How kind I speak, for God's sake! Who are you!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0170par0181	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0171par0182	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0172par0183	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0171par0184	Mr. President, I've made an assessment; I've answered the questions. So if you're going to give me a say, in that frame, I'm going to have to get up now and answer. Because I didn't mention anyone's name, I sat down one by one, I laid down the numbers. So it's not right when you make a hundred false claims. We're out, we've given you all the information. So I have an objection in this frame.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0172par0185	Mr. Minister, let me hear Mr. Kusoglu's request, and then I'll give you my word if you claim there's been a taunt. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0173par0187	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made some statements regarding my criticism by referring to my speech during his speech -- without name, but -- I'd like to correct them, if I may.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0172par0188	Mr. Kusoglu, there's no way to fix it. If you mean don't tease me, go ahead. Two minutes, I promise. Then, Mr. Secretary will apparently want words from the teaser.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0173par0189	I want to clarify.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0172par0190	Mr. Kusoglu, we have no way of clarifying if you look at the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0173par0193	Well, thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, during my speech, I said about this complementary grant or other issues: we have a law, especially by your power. Law number 5018 came out, and according to this, a modern law -- in accordance with this, budgets need to be passed here, audits need to be made, but -- look, we're going to switch the framework that we made with Law 5018, with the Budget Act, and with the Definite Law. I mean, we're here to get funding from the Supreme Assembly, we're handing it over to the Treasury Department, and we don't even know it. While Parliament here is doing so, it is not rightly aware that you are doing something contrary to the Constitution. Not everyone knows about it. The Ministry of Finance is bringing it in -- 5018, which is -- there are provisions that have changed the power given to the High Assembly. See, today, the 5th article, the 6th article, and the third article of the Final Account Law, just like this. Is it right for us to change our own law? The Constitution is clearly against the Constitution. Look at these three laws, you'll see. I didn't just say, Mr. Secretary, it's not about the supplementary grant; it's all against the way together. As for the decline in the number of taxpayers, it also decreases in Anatolia. Mr. Feramuz Bey also said that it's really going down, and look, the number of taxpayers with 567 thousand in 2002, the number of taxpayers in institutions, is 674,000, but that's just an increase in some limited counties and very little. I could say the same about the income tax. The number of taxpayers, 1,768 thousand, is 1 million 806,12 years later. Is there an increase in this? The distribution of the increase is so unfair, there is no increase in Anatolia. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As for the vehicle, you agree with him. So in France, in England, 10,000 vehicles - the number of vehicles that we have put in the budget this year alone - is 9,000 and over. There's an anomaly, and we're going to criticize them, and you're going to criticize them, and we're going to criticize them. I don't think this is supposed to be a touchy-feely thing. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0174par0199	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, now, if you have any allegations of bullying the two speakers, tell me. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0175par0202	He keeps everything as a tax secret. It's not a tax secret, you don't know what it is, just read it. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Defense Industry Undersecretary 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Higher Education Loans and Homes Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Higher Education Credit and Homes Agency's Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 EPISOLUTION PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0176par0240	Now, on behalf of the person, Alim Ilk, Kütahya MP, who has asked for a word against him. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0177par0243	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge against the institutional budgets in the ninth round of the 2015 budget. On this occasion, I salute you and all our fellow citizens who follow us. I'd like to share with you my views on the budgets of the Privatisation Administration, which is in this group alone, of the Higher Education Credit and Homes Institution, because time is short, so we can only make promises about these two institutions. Unfortunately, in this budget, as in the past 12 years, there has been a sale of public enterprises that have been made during the period of republical governments prior to AKP governments, but have not been sold for different reasons so far, and unfortunately profiting, and there is about 12 billion euro privatisation revenues expected from these sales. The President of the Privatisation Supreme Council, established in 1994, depending on the Prime Minister's office to implement and conduct the proceedings, has conducted and continues to conduct business and procedures for privatisation of many institutions. About 54 billion dollars in privatisation revenues from the privatisation of 62 billion dollars from the privatisation of its establishment so far have been achieved in the last 12 years. So the period of AKP governments averaged an average of 11 billion euro privatisation revenues per year. According to the AKP, the former government of Turkey's former republics did this, and the new Turkey in the last one year of the last 12 years ignored that they sold it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when you come out here and criticize the old one, your conscience needs to be a little tingled. 130 billion euros of 150 billion TL were obtained from the sale of the previous governments. It's got to be mercy. I think it's really good for him to be careful when he talks. In these privatisations, the AKP government has also enriched its allies with sales for almost the price of scraps, while in addition, they have transferred funds to the state treasure, which has been emptied with corruption and irregularities, and most importantly, they have intended to sell facilities built during the past administrations before them to cover their tracks and settle accounts with the republic's governments. Before the 2015 general elections, the AKP aims to root out everything that has been done before them. He's determined to sell what's left over in the next one-year period, and Mr. Finance Minister has already explained all of that. The remaining power generation plants, sugar factories, highways, bridges, some ports, boric acid and sulfuric acid plants, Public Insurance, People's Retirement, Erzurum Winter Olympics. It is also listed on the list of hundreds of immovable sales.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0178par0250	We gave Erzurum Winter Olympics to the municipality.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0177par0251	You'd better tell that to the minister. Dear lawmakers, in the privatisation of yesterday's privatisation, unfortunately the latest state-owned company in Kütahya, except for the Eti Borik Acid Facility -- the Tunçbilek Termic Plant, the Orhaneli Termic Plant in Bursa, went to $521 million in total. Dear lawmakers, the power of these two plants is 575 megawatts. And coal fields, they don't move in here. It's got to be mercy. Indeed, Mr. Prime Minister made a statement yesterday, and we took precautions. We sold all the facilities in Kütahya, and now an embargo is coming to the Chinese plate of Kütahya, or plaques. For God's sake, the 1 million TL vehicle you bought for the President of the Religious Affairs, what other subjects in the illegal palace, is it forgotten? And last but not least, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for the loan and housing budget. During his predecessor's term, around 450 lawmakers removed the application for the deployment of nearly 5,000 torpedo students in a year, removing 5 per cent of the general manager's quota, and you found a solution to this challenge, but that was not enough.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0179par0254	They're using them themselves now.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0177par0255	But right now, people have to call again, and there are about 120,000 students who don't even make 1 third of the respondents, and there aren't enough of them to settle down with the latest numbers, about 147 thousand. We need to say: If you can't live in a home right away, you can solve it under the name of a housing allowance for student housing or private homes. At the moment, private homeowners in the private sector are devastated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We need such an arrangement. In addition, if you come from the homes given to the students, we will be hosting the hotels you asked for. The promise, unfortunately, has been nothing but political pollen. I'd like to remind you of that, too. I thank you, and wish you well in the budget.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0180par0261	Congressmans, the talks on the ninth round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0181par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr. Yilmaz, my first question is, does your Ministry work on the demands of the veterans? About the placement and all the other improvements? Second: What are the commitments made to contract officers and petty officers? Do you have any work on the appointment of these to civil servants? Third: Where is the decision to buy 15 more KT-1T-type aircraft from South Korea while domestic construction of the Turkish Air Force ceases to exist, and how do you assess it? My final question: When will the martyrdom certificate of Ramadan Yelpadan of Kütahya come, one of the three soldiers who were killed by the PKK and the PYD two weeks ago? These allegations have not yet been answered. I also have a question to ask the Minister of Finance, as promised several times before, of the assistant general secretary and legal advisors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What's your decision on the rights of privacy?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0182par0272	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0183par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of National Defense: The ads for the deaths of martyrs and privates are on the bottom of the newspapers. Mr. Secretary, can't you be more sensitive about this? My second question to Mr. Finance Minister: I've spoken to him, but for the record, give him a date for the announcement of the sale of agricultural fields, and we've exceeded your date in the Plan and Budget. I'd like to point that out. I'd also like to ask our Minister of Sports: The state is building a stadium everywhere, and the city is building a city hall in Bursa. Will you give me a grant from the 2015 budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0184par0278	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0185par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the sports minister. Now, you've published a generalization, zero tolerances in doping, but hide the drugs. I've got the date, the number, 22/10/2014. Is that a thing? You're saying: hide the dopings. Secondly, sir, in your time, a cluster fell in Turkey's sport. The reason for this is that you allocate national resources to your pockets rather than to allocate them to the development of Turkish sports, and you invest in sports in Konya and Samsun. You're from Samsun, the General Manager is from Konya, where he goes all the time. Isn't there another country? I'm asking the Minister of Finance, why did you remove $5 billion of Citibank's money from the negotiating commission? Why do you remove the billion-dollar taxes of Mehmet Cengizin Türkerer, from many institutions with tax reviews? Why are there courts in this country?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0186par0283	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0187par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to Mr. Finance Minister: Mr. Secretary, 15 per cent social security benefits from employees pensioners are being cut. Normally, people who work don't retire pay social security benefits, and they deserve it. I can't figure out what you're cutting this structure for, for, for, for what reason, when they're working the second time. And I asked him a question, and he hasn't answered my question yet. My second question, Mr. Secretary of Defense, is that in recent times, especially in the southeastern, border, and eastern regions, our soldiers have been martyred as a result of traffic accidents, car crashes, suicide debates, suspicious shootings. Do you think there's any concern about that? Really, I'd appreciate it if you'd respond to the fact that there are so many attempted suicides in the east when there's never been one in the West, to see if the Armed Forces are operating a negative structure from within themselves. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0188par0288	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0189par0289	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Finance Minister, there have been 174 changes in the Public Contraction Act during your administration and 64 issues have been excluded from the scope of the tender. How much of the tenders held in 2014 are under the Public Contraction Act, and how much of them are outside the scope of the Public Contract Act? What is the numerical size of tenders under the Public Contraction Act? Minister of Youth and Sports: As of today, we have 196 universities. The request for our students' dorms is rising rapidly. By not building enough dorms, you forced our young ones into your partners at the time you now call them parallel. And now you're leading our young people to the homes of TURGEV. Do you have a serious project to solve our young people's dorm problems? How many student dorms do you have under construction? What is the capacity of these? What are the number of students staying in dorms as of today? In December 2013, what was the number of students staying in the dorms? In 2013, how many percent of those applying to the dorms were placed in the dorms? What percentage of 2014...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0190par0293	Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0191par0294	My question to the Minister of National Defence: The Chief of Staff did not come to the question regarding the allegations of parallel structures in the military. We can't start a business with an anonymous tip. He answered. It has been a long time; has the information received from the MET, from the police? If he's here, what's the procedure? If there was no response, was there a procedure for non-responsive officers? Has it been decided to build a long-range missile defense system? If so, which country was preferred? The Defense Industry Undersecretary has a business firm to do the basic and continuous work with its own staff. Will this practice continue in the coming days, causing more money to be paid from the Defense Industry Undersecretary's budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0192par0297	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0193par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions to Mr. Finance Minister: Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister's statement mentioned additional taxes to increase public revenues. Today, as the Finance Ministry, you have denied the tax on the capital market, which is not true. You said, "It is not true." But it appears that there will be a tax on luxury consumption. In what areas, how much tax do you anticipate? I'd appreciate the details. Also, the Prime Minister's statement yesterday will not be used as a plan. This plaque business is not symbolic, he said. Do you really expect to save money here, and what kind of savings is it going to be? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0194par0302	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0195par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Finance Minister: As it is known, in June 2012, transactions such as the sale of state-owned real estate, housing, rent, transfer and rights facility were subject to the Prime Minister's permission. As a result of this sentence, how many demands from the Ministry of Finance do you expect in the Prime Minister's office? How many students are allowed? What's the reason for this sentence? The former Prime Minister, the current President, is he still interested in the transfer and management of this district? It sounds like he's interested in us. I will not give up the administration, and I will be president of the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0194par0305	Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0196par0306	My question is to the Minister of Youth and Sports. In the June 2011 elections, your promise was made at Giresun. Before you, I asked the minister of the era in 2011, 2012, 2013, and he finally said something promising in 2013, and I have the report. Negotiations began between our ministry and TOKI, and he said, "Good luck to Giresun. " But there is nothing. I'm asking you now: Is there a site in the 2015 investment programme called Giresun, called Chutanak Arena? There are also 500 students in Piraziz, 550 in Bulancak, 600 in Espye, 700 in Yolale district. There's no mortgage housing, no rental dorms. Especially when 500 students of the fine arts faculty are added to teaching next year in the district of Yolale, there will be 1,200, which is a very serious problem. Do you have any work on this?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0197par0309	Last question. Mr. Captain...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0198par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question was to the Minister of Youth and Sports: Mr. Secretary, I asked my speech during the day, but there was no answer. In Samsun, you take the stadium in the center of the city, and you take it out of the city, to Tekeköy, to Wednesday, to the road of 33,000. In Antalya, on the contrary, you build a stadium of 33,000 people -- again, continuing construction -- which will paralyze the center of the city and all traffic. What's the motive here? Do you do it in the center of the city in Antalya because of the altitude in Antalya? My second question to the Minister of National Defence: Mr. Secretary, it is clear that this parallel structure has been victimizing many military victims in Silivri. What are you doing to prevent these soldiers from being victimized? I mean, are they going back to their duties or what?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0199par0314	Mr. Secretary, come in. You set the minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0200par0316	Thank you, Mr. President. Very quickly, I'm going to talk about things that have a ready answer, and if there is a subject, we'll answer it later. Now, there's a question about the sale of farmland. They gave me my approval two weeks ago, and I confirmed the basics and procedures on how to make value assessments there. Now, I've asked my friends, of course, for a long time now, 2/B is something that we've been really busy with. Because when you say 2/B, we're talking 500-600,000 cases. On average, the IRS actually operates around 10 or 12,000 a year. Now, therefore, with this workload being lightened, and with these readings being done, I believe that from the first quarter of the year, from the end of the year, the IRS will probably be ready for the cycle, the completion of the sales process. I asked again, after these basics and procedures came out, there was no need for further notice. As soon as the appreciation is done, the sale of agricultural land will begin, and we will have solved an important problem. Now, as far as I'm concerned, we don't have any work at this time regarding the rights of general secretary general and legal advisors at the universities. I can't answer a number of questions about private companies -- again -- due to tax privacy. What was the logic of the 15 per cent social security benefits cut from those who started their own business after they retired? Now, here's the thing, of course, in his name, independent employees, people who open jobs, as you know, within this Social Security Act, social security is subject to bonus cuts. Now, if we don't cut it from the pensioners, there's a sort of unfair competition, which is one, so it's an unfair competition. Second of all, you know, the average retirement age in our country is about 44, so we still have the youngest retirement in the world, but the stock is still the youngest, and that's why, under different names from the annual Ministry of Social Security, we're going to transfer about 81 billion dollars to all investments in Turkey, for example, about 48-50 billion dollars in central budgets -- but that's almost twice as much as we're going to transfer from the central budget to the Social Security Agency under different names. You can appreciate that this arrangement has a logic in that sense as well. So at this stage, we do not intend to make any arrangements. Now, of course you appreciate the taxation of luxury consumption, we've just announced a program, our goal is to prevent waste. We have international obligations, we will obey those obligations, which is against the World Trade Organization, against the European Union, but we will do what we can in this framework. It's not right for me to go into details at this stage, because taxing is a matter of the High Council's discretion, but after we've completed these studies, of course, we'll bring them to the High Council. Quickly, I was asked about a number on the KİK law, the 2014 figures. I just gave you the 2013 numbers, the 2014 figures, and I'd be happy to share them as of November, but I don't have them in front of me right now. The overall assessment of national real estate or treasury properties is a subject of our Prime Minister's discretion.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0201par0326	What about that kind of appreciation?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0200par0327	As of now, we continue to send all procedures to the Prime Minister, except for the exceptions and permits given by the public to the public, such as the public.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0202par0328	Will that shadow cabinet in the presidency decide on this, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0200par0329	Dear friends, as far as I know, at least I tried to answer most of the questions that came to me. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0203par0331	You don't answer questions anyway. You seek privacy. There's no such area of privacy. You're protecting the thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0204par0332	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0205par0333	First of all, I'd like to answer the question our Giresun Congressman asked. The protocol for Giresun's stadium was signed in 2013 and is currently under way. And once the project is completed, it will act accordingly.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0206par0334	Dorms?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0205par0335	We've had our support for the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality in connection with the status they're currently building on their own resources. We were just with the Bursaspor delegation from Bursa. There's a study at the point where his opening will be around June. He's made demands on some support. And we'll do everything we can at the point where we can support ourselves by looking at our own budget. I want to say that here.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0207par0336	Will you give it to Izmir?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0205par0337	We'll give it to Izmir. We'll give it to Izmir. Hopefully, when Izmir makes his decision, we will support Izmir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0208par0338	Izmir has already made his decision.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0205par0339	I'm going to ask your permission to respond quickly to the question asked by Mehmet Erdogan Bey regarding the current construction of the Credit and Housing Institution and send details in writing. Because it is currently being built in 2015 by the Ministry of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism in 163 countries, including 80; 33 in 2016; 10 in 2017. We demand that it be built by the Ministry of TOKI and Environment and Urbanism. We also have rentals and rentals. As for Mr. Kamer Young, I don't mean Mr. Kamer Young. It's a doping sequence...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0209par0341	I'm telling you, it's you. Whatever you say!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0205par0342	Mr. Young, I'm not interested in what you think is appropriate. I don't like to call you "you," so I call you "you." Here's the detail of the phrase you said: you know, there are two samples in the doping sample. There's a real sample, there's a spare sample. In case of irregularity in the original sample, an application is made to open the second sample. However, since the second sample has been contested without certainty, we face a situation that has not been confirmed. Therefore, it is a matter of which the second sample should be opened, which is a final decision, which states that there will be no public sharing of any kind before the result is revealed. I would like to point out that I will answer other questions in writing to give time to our National Secretary of Defense. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0210par0345	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. First, I answer Mr. Capitan's question: "Is there a study on the removal of the victims of the cases?" (The verdict on the defendants of these cases has been ratified by the Supreme Court, followed by the Constitutional Court of Rights. The İstanbul High Criminal Court has decided to revisit the hearing on this verdict. The retrial continues. The jurisprudence has not been concluded. Again, as you know, the Constitutional Court has decided to retrial the issue on June 18, 2014 for the violation of the rights of 236 personnel. Of those personnel, 37 officers from the Army Command, one officer from the Navy Command, four officers from the Air Force Command, 13 officers from the General Command, and one officer from the Coast Guard Command, 56 officers from the Army Command are already at the same time. There is no common petty officer to be retrialed. As part of various prosecutions, regular personnel have been appointed in accordance with their duties, staff and duty requirements and in accordance with the current legislation. Again, Mr. Light asked about the purchase of these KT-1T. On 26 September 2013, the Defence Industrial Executive Committee decided to meet the need for a new generation of basic training aircraft from within the country. As part of the decision, the Defence Industry Executive Committee is envisioned to take the first HURKÜSTAN into inventory in 2018, according to the agreement signed with TuSAŞ. KT-1T and HURKİDİ training planes were planned to be used in training pilots for the Turkish Air Force and in a multinational flight school scheduled to open in 2015. However, KT-1T aircraft are considered needed until the development of the HURKE plane is complete. As a result of these assessments, 40 of them were signed to our Air Force Command earlier in 2012 -- 40 specifics in August 2007 -- and 40 of them were delivered to Korea in 2012 for the purchase of 15 options. According to the need of the Air Force Command... either wait until 2018... it hasn't been tested, it hasn't been implemented yet.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0211par0351	20 of them were kept in the barn because 20 of them were not active.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0210par0352	I trust all the personnel of our Air Force Command, and I trust their demands. So they said, "We need it." So we did it using the option of 15 options in that year of 2007, 40 specifics. Again, do you have a ministry of working on the rights of martyrs and veterans? You know, it's the duty of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to coordinate the work on the rights of martyrs and veterans to determine national policy and strategies related to services and exemptions.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0211par0354	But you're related, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0210par0355	Once again, outside counseling is available while the Defense Industry Undersecretary has his own staff. The Defense Industry Undersecretary and STM have signed a contract for engineering and consulting services. Since the engineering and expertise provided under the engineering and counselling services agreement is specially qualified, it is not possible to employ these personnel with the rights of autonomy provided to public personnel. In addition, about 30 per cent of STM is public.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0357	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0213par0358	The Chief of Staff is... The question is, Mr. President, give me a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0360	I've already extended the deadline.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0213par0361	Give me a minute, Mr. President, the question is...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0362	I've extended it, sir. Mr. Sky, you have a statement to make.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0214par0364	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0215par0365	Mr. President, I asked a question everyone's been wondering, Mr. Secretary, and he didn't answer. He didn't answer that question on the commission.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0366	Mr. Keskin, this is Mr. Sky. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0216par0368	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to tell Mr. Kılıç, Minister of Youth and Sports, that he may take it as a question, but I'll leave it to his assessment. I'll pass that on as an Ankara MP. Altınörs Idmanyurdu, who was founded in İstanbul before the Liberation War, lost many of his players and founders in the Salvation War, was later established in Ankara as a very good sports club, with instructions from the republic, following 1923. This sports club has continued its activities as a brand-high sports club, but has been quickly borrowed and is now at the point of bankruptcy, especially after its club management was taken over by Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Gökçek and his sons. Such a distinguished club and an identical club of ours must be saved and solved. Of course, Mr. Secretary is at equal distance from all clubs, but he just expressed his contribution to other clubs. And I'd like to take the courage to ask if the Ministry of Youth and Sports will have a study to save Ankara's power, to take care of its problems.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0370	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will you answer?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0217par0372	If you'll excuse me, I'll give him a personal answer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit05spe0212par0373	Okay, thank you. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the ninth round, respectively. I'd like to submit to your votes that the National Defense Department of 2015 will take part in the central management budget: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Defence Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 230,683,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 22.520.205,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 9.300,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 4.067,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 22.764.255,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of National Defence has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the National Department of Defense's Central Management account of 2013 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Defence Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 27,847,364.236,39 Budget Expenses 19,872.501.304.04 Canceled allowance 7.870.385.654.60 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 7.940.810.280,11 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defence was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Defense Industry Undersecretary shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 40.28) SURVIVATION INVESTIGATION 1) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Budget 02 Defense Services 49,643,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 49,643,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 106,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 49.532,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 49,643,000 The Defence Industry Undersecretary has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. Undersecretary of Defense Industries, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Defence Industry Undersecretary Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 49,358,500,00 Budget Expenses 46,054,776.99 Canceled Grant 3.303,723,01 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 41,016,000.00 Collection 43,498,103,60 Ret and Refunds 174,38 Net Collection 43,497,909,22 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Defense Industry Undersecretary was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Department of Youth and Sports shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 29) TEENAGE AND SPOR ACTIVITY 1) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 7.077.912.100 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 123,367,900 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 7,202,780.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. The Ministry of Youth and Sports in 2013, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Youth and Sports Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.596.362.951.00 Budget Expenses 5.590.340.050,18 Canceled Fund 6.022.900,82 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Sports General Directorate of 2015 will take part in the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.14) SPOR GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Sports General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 32.295,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defence Services 46,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 2.253,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 985,160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,020,334,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 2,190,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 970.334,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 47,810.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 1,020,334,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Sports General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes to the section of the central management account in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Sports General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,587,635,750.00 Budget Expenses 1,563,009,017,92 Canceled allowance 24.626.732.08 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 864,877,000.00 Collection 1,572.212,746,92 Refuge and Returns 10.406,43 Net Collection 1,572.202.340,49 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Sports General Directorate was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Office of Higher Education Loans and Homes shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management budget of 2015: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.13) THE KING OF MY HIGH SCHOOL AND THE PRODUCTION OF THE YURTURES 1) The General Directorate of Higher Education Credit and Housing Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 61,520.800 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 589.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 61,976,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 09 Education Services 6,928,589.200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 7.052.675,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempted and Property Influences 377,101.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences 6,077,675,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 178,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Collection 419,299.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 7.052.675,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the department of the Office General of Higher Education Loans and Homes shall take part in the final account of central management in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Office for Higher Education Loans and Homes Office of the Finnish Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.746.566.495.00 Budget Expenses 5,464.192.502.56 Canceled Fund 282.373.992.44 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimated 5.328.558,000.00 Collection 5.862.184.135,94 Ret and Returns 18,384.889,13 Net Collection 5.843.799.246,81 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Department of Higher Education Loans and Homes Office was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 78,917,339,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 112,355,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 1,774.951.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 2.550,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 46,446,818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 127,254,013,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Finance has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Ministry of Finance will take part in the central management account in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Finance Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 98.036.277.777.69 Budget Expenses 96,916,062,442,37 Canceled Payment 1,120,215,335,32 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Finance was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the chairman of the IRS will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 12.76) RETURN PRESIDENT 1) Chairman of the IRS 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 2.443.472,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,420,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,444.892,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the IRS has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 2,180.508.015.00 Budget Expenses 2,095,645,960,11 Canceled Fund 84,862.054,89 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. In 2013, the head of the IRS was adopted into parts of the central administration's final account. I'd like to submit to your votes that the public tenders will be transferred to the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.06) KAMU IHHALE BUILDING 1) Public Contractors' Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 18.170,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 111,830.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 130,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 72.302,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 47.698,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 10,000,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 130,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Departments of the Central Management budget of 2015 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Central Government account of 2013 will be transferred to its chapters: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) The Public Contractor's Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 118,500,000.00 Budget Expenses 111,263,378,70 Canceled Fund 7.236.621.30 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 105,000,000.00 Net Collection 114.347.947.90 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The public tender was adopted in 2013 as part of the central administration's final account. I submit to your votes that the President of the Privatisation Administration of 2015 will be transferred to the central management budget: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.35) THE PRESIDENT OF PRISON 1) President of Privatisation Administration 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 11:655,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 613.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 12,3199,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 24.587,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 370,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 24.216,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Profits 1,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 24.587,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The President of the Privatisation Administration has been accepted as part of the central management budget for 2015. The President of the Privatisation Administration in 2013, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) The President of the Privatisation Administration's Final Account for the 2013 Central Administration (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 29.261,300,00 Budget Expenses 22.103.877.45 Canceled Fund 7,157,422.55 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 23,613.00 Collection 32,865,971,12 Ret and Returns 6,707,69 Net Collection 32.859.263,43 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The President of the Privatisation Administration of 2013 has been accepted into parts of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.10) PRODUCTION OF CAMU, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2015 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 453,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 33.107,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 33.560.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 13.200,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 20,360,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 33.560.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Accountability Accounting, Accounting and Control Standards Agency will be transferred to the final accounts of 2013: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2013 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 31,911,000,00 Budget Expenses 13.624.016,12 Canceled Fund 18,296,983,88 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 31,911,000,00 Collection 8.317.779.18 Ret and returns 2,509,97 Net Collection 8.315.269,21 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards has been adopted into parts of the central management account in 2013. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the ninth round were accepted. I wish them well. Members of parliament, with the completion of talks on the ninth round, talks on the 2nd article on income and financing have been completed with the budgets of the ministry and relevant institutions, which include the 1st Articles of the 2015 Centre Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Act. Now, in accordance with the programme, we will discuss and vote on the provisions of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law, respectively. I will re-read the first article on the cost budget of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act, and then submit it to your votes. PRODUCTION PRODUCTION OF THE CENTER OF 2015 Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1 - (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) Turkey's Lira, 464,163,399. B) (II) private budgetary administrations include 53,069,588,000 Turkish liras, 3.212.692,000 Turkish liras for regulatory and auditory institutions on the ruler of C) (III) The grant is granted. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which was previously approved: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 442,586,345,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras, including 7.789,211,000 Turkish liras, 45,894,085,000 Turkish liras, and a total of 53,683,296,000 Turkish liras. C) (III) is a total of 3,212,692,000 Turkish liras, including 3.1942,33,000 Turkish liras in the editors and auditory institutions on the table. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II) is estimated to be 55,964,000 Turkish liras, as shown on the table marked by this Law (F). Now, I'm going to read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes. CODE EXPLOSION RETURNING 2015 01 Tax revenues 427,048,060.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Attempts and Property Profits 9.545.927,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 1,933,484,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 31,571,202,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings 10,440,818,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 804.170,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. COMPLETE BUILDING 481,343,661.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns 38,757,316,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. COMPETITION 442,586,345,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted by Article 2: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0212par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. The commission and the government are in place. The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0218par0010	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the 2015 Budget Law Bill. I salute you all. Of course, this third article bears the title of the same. Although the government's opinion has been shifted by corruption, it is absurd to seek balance in the budget, but it is still useful to express some issues related to balance in this budget. Dear lawmakers, the basis of the budget is fiscal discipline. The essence of financial discipline is the discipline of spending. A healthy financial structure depends only on the transparency, controlability and accountability of expenditures and the end of wastelessness. But the government has the authority to spend without reckoning, and it spends without reckoning. The budget is used to finance expenditures reaching the point of waste. Many examples can be given, however, have been said to be $1 billion,300m in spending for the illegal palace, which has been settled in the past few weeks in particular for the Ataturk Forest Farm, but the latest developments, while the figures remain uncertain, suggest that the figure is far above $1 billion,370m, and that number does not convince the public. So much so that almost every element of the escaped palace, from the golden cups to the imported trees, points to a great waste. You will cut down 16,500 trees and import 280 trucks of trees from the other side. Applications for the cost of the palace were rejected on the grounds that it would harm the country's economic interests. Well, we need to ask, as well: Mr. Secretary, what is the cost that the TOKİKI (TİKI) has not explained on the grounds that it will damage the country's economy? WHAT is the reason for the difference between the cost that the TOSI (TİKİ) calculates but does not explain, and the cost that you explain? Where do these expenses come from? One thing I'd like to address about the Presidential Palace is the issue of prestige and reputation that is often expressed. Everyone from the Justice Development Party is stuck behind the word "difficult." In the Commission, Mr. Bkent Arinc cited and compared the story of the Gospel of Pembe about the building of this palace. Mr. Arinc said in his speech: over 1 quadrillion have been paid. It's not a small amount, it's a high number. This height is why it's controversial. We say, let's discuss it. But the government doesn't explain it. And so it continues: ▪ Presidential authorities, their palaces are prestigious places. Some may also need to show greatness, or to show self - control. Our Ottoman tradition, too. His Pink Gospel is a Kaftan show of strength. He said, "Mr. Arinc." Dear friends, those of you who have not read the story of the Pink Bible, please read it again, but let Arinc read it again. In the story of the Pink Gospel of Qaftan, Muhsin Çelebi, the hero of the story, went as an apostle, making the Pink Gospel of Qaftan out of his own fortune. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) I mean, there's a big difference. Here's where we disagree with the Justice Development Party mentality. You statesmen, Mr. President and the Prime Minister are looking for a personal and personal crisis with state resources. Muhsin Çelebi made it out of his own fortune, I take it to your attention. I mean, on the one hand, Muhsin Çelebi, who sacrificed his fortune for the greatness, prestige and reputation of the state, on the other hand, the states who squandered the resources of the state and the nation for his own personal ambition and power. On one hand, the statesmen who sacrificed their children for the state and their nation, on the other, the states who violated state and law for their children. This is an example I wish the government would read the story of Omar Seyfettin over and over again. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister announced the Structural Transformation Plan, and spoke of increased savings; he said wasteful gifts would not be a public issue. I mean, it's considered a waste and a gift if given a plaque, so they said, "Well, take the watches." Aren't those gifts, the money from the chocolate cans? Is this going to continue? Mr. Prime Minister, why don't you get into this? The Prime Minister has plaques on his agenda, but for some reason, there's no other waste. What kind of savings would he not allow 15-20 lira plaques to be wasted, but he can't speak up to billions of dollars of palaces, millions of dollars of vehicles, vehicles, rentals? On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't have to tire him out about such matters, which are already covered by your mutual capital. If Mr. Davutoglu had knowledge of the government's actions, he certainly wouldn't have said so. On December 19th last year, I asked Mr. Eroglu, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs, and I said: "You're giving a lot of ads, ads, opening ceremonies, and you're making a fuss. How do you pay for these? Mr. Eroglu proudly and proudly said: "We don't cost money. Who are those contractors? You're having contractors curse people's mothers. It seems that Davutoglu did not know about this either.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0219par0017	Pool contractor!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0218par0018	What a waste of transportation. Here, in his speech earlier, Mr. Finance Minister tried to respond to these criticisms, and he focused more on the number of vehicles. Here, the budget table (T) envisions 5,000-odd vehicles to be picked up in 2015. Now, corruption has gone so far that the government has moved further and further away from this diagnosis. When you say "a waste of transportation," you don't just discuss transportation, you don't discuss unnecessary transportation, you get a lot of criticism and debate about rentals. And how do you use these vehicles for public service? We also know that these public vehicles are widely used for their special efforts, private activities, private affairs. They have fuel, other costs. If the government, the Ministry of Finance, says I know the account book. If so, how many vehicles have been rented from this bench as of 2014, and what's its budget spending, answer that, by tomorrow, we'll get the answer. How many vehicles are rented, what's the cost? The government is in an attitude that ignores budget discipline; on one hand, waste and sovereignty, on the other, heavy tax burdens for citizens. This is the one sentence summary of the Justice Development Party's budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0220par0022	Thank you. He's a member of the People's Party of Republican People's Party who has asked for a word on behalf of the People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0221par0026	Dear friends, our subject, our class is the budget balance of 2015. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers provide balance justice, which is justice, and so does the budget. If there's a balance in the budget, it's fair. Apparently, the 2014 budget is down from last year. According to last year, the budget deficit has grown by 32%. Last year, the budget deficit was 1.2 per cent of the national income, and this year it got closer to 2 per cent, and it's going to get bigger next year, because the budget deficit is going to go down a little bit because of the increase in public spending, and there's also significant decreases in consumption and imports, which are the main source of tax revenues. Dear friends, taxes are very unstable in this country. Two thirds of taxes are taken from everyone who is poor and rich and does not listen, and injustice is thus growing. Expenses are unfair. Expenses are also unfair: Look, I'll give you an example from 2014. In 2014, the interest was paid $50 billion, and this year it will be paid three to five dollars more, a little bit more. I mean, this budget gets from the poor, it gives interest to the rich who earns it. We have an unstable and unfair budget. They say: "Yes, it's true, but we're on welfare." They do, it's true. Why? Because there's a growing number of needy people. In our country, people who are in need of social assistance, those who are taking advantage of these benefits are increasing, and these helps are not in the capacity to cure the wound. Again, I'll give you data: look, you're collecting $240 billion indirect taxes, you're paying $50 billion interest, and you're doing $15 billion in social benefits. Now, dear friends, this government also has a bad habit; they distort numbers and openly lie: look, 30 percent of society in 2002 were poor. Now, it's down to 2 percent of the poor. They say, OK. I'm going to tell you from 30 percent to 2 percent...... that the total lie, the revenue distribution is not improving. Dear friends, when the AKP comes to power, the number of unemployed, including the number of desperate, I will work if I don't look for a job. Those who say, "I'll get a job." 3.4 million. Now, that number has come to 5.6 million. Unemployment has risen from 14 per cent to 19 per cent. One out of three young people are unemployed. What if poverty falls when unemployment increases in one country? Oh, my God! Where are you going to tell this? Now, it's very clear that the numbers are being lied to. Let's put the unemployed aside. In our country, there are 5 million people living on minimum wage, $891, or $30 a day. It's up 77% in ten years, so that's during the ruling period. Let's put that aside. The number of people living on minimum wage is 2.2 million in this country. I mean, 2.2 million people are poor because one family lives on $30 a day, and there's 5.6 million unemployed; that's 8 million families. 8 million families are 32 percent in this community. I mean, one out of three people suffer poverty in Turkey. Let's put that aside. Come on, let's go another way. Let's see how many people from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy take advantage of social aid, maybe that's true, not my number, but that number. Now, look, there's a lot of numbers, but I'm going to give you a number that the Ministry has made public. The Ministry says that 3.1 million households are receiving help; 3.1 million households. E, what's that worth? That's 12 percent of society. So this is 2% straight bullshit, my dear friends. No one's to be offended; it's a lie, it's a sea! Now, friends, not only has poverty increased, but the rich have become richer. See, in 2002, Turkey shared 67 per cent of national wealth with the richest 10 per cent; it now has 78 per cent. The richest 10 per cent of Turkey now own 78 per cent of the country. I mean, the rich got richer, the poor got poorer. Dear friends, I want to remind you that no palace has been built in the history of the Republic. The palaces were built only in the Ottoman period; the Dolmabahçe Palace, the Star, the Gençabaşi, but none of them were as depressed as the fugitive palace; even the kings and dictators of the West had a more humble life. See, for example, how many rooms do you know of the famous Buckingham Palace, which was built in 1703 by the British Royal Family? 775. The French Emperor, the proud XVI. The palace of Versailles, which Louis had built, was about 700 rooms, and one fourth of the house of the fugitive. Do you know who this runaway palace looks like? Ceausescu had a palace, which had built 1,100 rooms. You know what happened to him, but it wasn't enough for ours at 1,150, and now he's making it bigger. Now, Assad lives in a place. Now, we heard a report, and they sent Assad a picture of this fugitive palace; and he saw, and went mad, and slept three nights, and fell asleep. If I don't have such a palace as this, as a dictator, I'll go mad. He's gonna do it now, build a bigger palace as soon as the civil war's over, and settle in.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0222par0039	He's already crazy!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0221par0040	Now, you know that Zimbabwe has a 27-year-old dictator, Robert Mugabe. We were wondering why Robert Mugabe didn't show up for the President's handover, and we found out that we were very curious, and we found out. Turns out he built a palace, which cost him $10 million, had 25 rooms. And he was very jealous, and he said, "What if I come, I will be crushed by that reputation?" He couldn't come for her either. Dear friends, the question is: How much did this runaway palace cost, and what pen was it received from? This palace was not built with the gold of Zarraf, but with the taxes of the people, with Uncle Recep wearing a torn tire. See, justice is shown by scales, just as it is seen on this bench, the scale must be balanced. Nay, but the scales and the balances and the Qiblah (prayer direction) of their Qiblah (prayer direction) have gone awry. Look, I'll put a minimum wage on one of these scales, I'll put in benefits, pensions, come on, and I'll put in unemployment insurance. Now look at the imbalance, I'll put the interest in, and I'll put the palace on the run.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0223par0043	Put the ones before 2002.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0221par0044	Not enough, but I'll put the gold of Reza Zarraf, the freckles, the freckles, the freckles that you're lying in front of. Is there balance left? That's the balance of this country, that's the balance of the budget. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, dear friends, this scale on the stand is in the 47th Verse of the House of Enbiyah, which is described and described. He'll come to you, be patient, and he'll come to you. Therein is a balance, and in the Hereafter a balance. Look, dear friends, the worst thing that can happen to a person is not to make mistakes. Every man makes mistakes, but the worst thing is losing his sense of shame from mistakes, he's very bad. When a nation is poor, we build a palace and get recognition. If you say, that's the problem of arc and balance. Of course, the scale doesn't match the top of the country, and the top of the cantar doesn't. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0224par0049	You run, you run!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0221par0050	I don't run, I have my dignity.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0225par0051	Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP who has asked for the People's Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0226par0053	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party regarding Article 3 of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. On this occasion, I salute all of you with love. In fact, it is a budget that shrinks the bread of the poor, the poor, the poor, the small-income, the farmer, the laborer, the worker. In this regard, Bitlis is a small part of our province. In 2003 the province of Bitlis, ranked 77, was ranked number 78 in the order of socioeconomic development in the provinces, and the province of Bitlis was ranked 78. The lack of industrialisation, lack of industrialisation, lack of incentive investments, the policies of the AK PARTI (AK PARTI) that make people living in Bitlis poorer and more dependent on power every day. The smallest subcontractor purchases are being interfered with, even by people who have been taken from public institutions through ISKUR. He is in a hostile position, excusing those who are not himself. In this regard, Bitlis is a well - being and far behind in education. The same drama happens in health. It's been said before -- Mr. Health Minister, if he had been here, if he had listened to me, maybe he'd have arranged it for Bitlis, but I hope he's hearing me now -- hospitals in Bitlis are not a good place to clean up, in terms of hygiene. Who takes care of these hospitals, what does he do? The doctors who were sent have been assigned regular appointments on paper, but when we look at the verb, there are no doctors. Again, shipments are being made from Bitlis to Musha, Vana, Diyarbakir, Batman, and our people are dying on the way. Whereas in this day and age, at a time like this, when communication, technology, it's not very pleasant, but we have to express it. In addition, it is possible to say the same in education. There are serious problems in education throughout Bitlis. The lack of bureaucratic insensitiveness in the problems of transport education and boarding elementary schools and policies in accordance with the conditions of the province are also disrupting the education of students. Although thousands of teachers are missing, many schools, including central schools, employ paid teachers, and many teachers are appointed. One of them was banished to the War Ultamon, head of the Education-SEN branch. Bitlis, on the other hand, needs these teachers. So, for political reasons, there's no point in sending these people because you already get 50 percent of the vote, and here, you're contributing to the teachers, you're contributing to politics." It doesn't mean anything. It's not enough, although PTT has been privatized, a brother, a PTT director, is being deported. Why? It's been done in the past, and everyone would take it as mature or natural, but at a time like this, it's not possible to afford it. In that case, guess what the quality of education has become. We have opened the way for Kurdish education. Our Minister of Education... who says he is a member of the National Education... is not given Kurdish education in any school -- as an elective course in Bitlis. The reason is that our teachers who still finish this Kurdish language education are not appointed. Everyone knows that preventing these teachers from appointing them doesn't do anyone any good. The absence of Kurdish lessons... the students of this Kurdish course are here and there, promoting it as if it had not been applied. In this regard, I demand that teachers who teach Kurdish be appointed as soon as possible. On the other hand, there are no competency documents or job guarantees for the staff employed in schools. One of the sacrifices created by the educational system is that although there are 18 boarding schools in Bitlis County, the number of people who are absent is currently more than 3,000. One of the events not seen anywhere in Turkey took place in Bitlis Province. Although there are many schools around it, the student housing problem has been passed over to the Bitlis Teacher's House Ensar Foundation, or the supporters. We don't find that morally and legally appropriate. Why don't you hand it over to the county or to the city or to the municipality? But our outsiders are out there now, no dorms in Bitlis. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, drug use has been significantly increased in Bitlis in recent years. The measures and measures taken are insufficient. It harms society's moral and family culture greatly and darkens the future of our young, our city and our country. In Bitlis, 700 people have been identified as addicted to ballistics and other substances. However, no work has been done. In Bitlis Province, many tenders are hand-in-hand, followed by invitations. Like all over Turkey, no one is allowed to do business in Bitlis province without these supporters. After the privatisation of electricity distribution companies, there are serious problems in Bitlis Province. A citizen who can't pay a month's bills has been cut off without being told, and these citizens have been paid to turn off the power, and they are victimised. Energy companies should use more democratic, more humane methods to collect what they're owed, our citizens shouldn't be victimized, but it seems the opposite. You know, Bitlis is one of the cities that has a heavy snowfall in the winter. Due to the late opening of roads in our districts of Mutki and Hizan due to snowfalls, there have been particularly many setbacks in healthcare, our citizens are unable to go to hospitals, and many of them have died on the way. The village roads are closed for months. However, in order for the closing district and village routes to be opened quickly and people not to be victimized, the teams to open roads in specific places must be present. Because we know there are shelters like this on the side of the road in the past. But, unfortunately, it's the opposite of that at this time. Lake Van, the most beautiful lake in the world, lives around Lake Van, about a million people, and unfortunately, the area of Lake Van is not contaminated and no work is being done. Mr. President, we're putting the two years of non-conflict behind us. While many parts of the community have welcomed and supported the process, recent arrests and detention fairs, which have started all over Turkey, are disturbing and disturbing the community. Finally, the arrests in Hizan and Tatvan districts of Bitlis have been cited as the cause of 6-7 October events in which people are being held as an excuse for meeting and march and are prevented from using their most democratic rights. However, no investigation has been conducted, even though our party building in Hizan has been raided and destroyed by security forces, and yet 15 people, 15 members of our Hizan district, have been arrested. There was a tender for the freeway of Tatvan (Tatvan). There is no study for this road, even though it is said to have been auctioned off. In fact, it's safe to say that not even a pickaxe has been hit. I want to tell you another story, another story. You know, the city of Bitlis was once in the hands of the AK PARTY. The closed TECEL Tobacco Factory then granted its own business buildings -- 2 buildings -- to Bitlis Municipality. I mean, the deed to the cadastro and the Bitlis City Hall were deeded to it. However, after losing the AK PARTI administration and the AK PARTI municipality, the two buildings, although not two days later, were ordered to be transferred from Diyarbakır, from privatisation institution to the property manager there -- this property is forced into the name of the privatisation agency. Is that a thing? I ask, have you ever seen such traffic in this world? So, the citizen there voted for you yesterday, and when he didn't vote for you today, you're going to take the estates to a place like this, or you're going to take them away? Mr. Finance Minister is here, and this privatisation agency must hand this property over to its owner immediately. Do you want to punish the people of Bitlis by taking this property by force and algebra? Do you want to intimidate the people of Bitlis? Isn't privatizing the property of the people a sign of how much you respect the law? Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my time is up, and I hereby salute you with respect and love. (Applause from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP)
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0227par0072	Yes, Ali Turan, Sivas MP. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0075	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on Article 3 of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute you all. The budget of 2015, which is the 13th budget of the EC PARTI governments, is to keep people alive, such as the previous budgets. • A realistic budget that measures social justice, economic growth, the development of our country, the well-being of our nation, which will never apply populist policy, which our governments declare our country to the goals of 2023, 2053, 2071. We all remember what Turkey was like in the first budget the EC PARTY government made in 2002. Turkey's national income in 2002 is only $230 billion, and today, at the end of 12 years, $830 billion. Compared to the previous 12 years, Turkey's national income in 1990 is $200 billion, and by the end of 12 years, only $230 billion in 2002, up 11 per cent. The increase in national income during the AK PARTY administration is 400 per cent. There's no comparison. Because our country was stable, it continued at its pace as investments in the private sector and in the public sector, and most of all, Turkey received direct investments from outside. Of course, it's impossible to compare direct investments to the 12 years before us, and it's impossible to compare them to the 60 years before us, because direct investment in Turkey in 60 years before the AK PARTI rule is only 14.5 billion, direct investment in the AK PARTI administration period is 145 billion dollars. There's no comparison, the difference is 1,000 percent. The total of our exports in Turkey was 36 billion dollars -- my teacher just spoke -- we're about to get 160 billion dollars today.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0229par0080	How many factories do you have left? Zero.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0081	As you all know, interest was 60 per cent, inflation was 60 per cent; it came to one-digit figures when we arrived today.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0230par0082	I'll applaud, Mr. Hajji, if you tell me the import rate of exports. I promise I'll applaud.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0083	Of course, in 2002, $86 of each $100 tax collected in Turkey went to the interest of our debts, and only $16 of every $100 tax collected today goes to the interest of our debts.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0230par0084	The citizen also invests $55 of $100 in debt.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0231par0085	Do you know how much the private sector owes?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0086	Our public debt burden rate has dropped from 74 per cent to 35 per cent, with public banks losing 10 billion per year starting to make 7.5 billion a year.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0232par0087	What's left of the bank? You sold it all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0088	Our $27 billion reserve at the Central Bank is $140 billion today.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0233par0089	They gave false information, it went down to $46 billion.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0090	We had six zeroes out of our money, we had stamps.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0234par0091	Now it's gold, gold
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0093	In fact, many commentators said: "If this succeeds, we will go to Salam. " Still, the taxi square is empty, so if they want to go, let them go. We've earned the real value of our money.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0235par0094	My taxi is banned.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0095	But look, it was $1.1. When you dropped a zero, just tell me how much it cost.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0096	On the other hand, there was an IMF, and Turkey was sleeping with the IMF, with the IMF, and people were paying attention to Cottarelli's expression in Turkey. Praise be to God, as the $27 billion debt was paid, we are now lending $5 billion to the IMF.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0097	That's right, we don't owe IMF, how much is the other one?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0237par0098	The minister says $23 billion. Where did the $4 billion come from?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0099	The Turkish people forgot the name of Cotarelli, the color of his body, and forgot the IMF.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0100	You're borrowing at higher interest than the Bank of Islamic Development.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0101	On the other hand, our economy has become the 16th largest economy in the world.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0102	The worst in history has happened in your time, the 17th and 15th.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0103	The G20 presidency was given to our country. Look, most important of all, we were the world's most helpful country, and today we are the most helpful country in the world. Praise be to God.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0105	You've been fooled.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0106	Unemployment is a problem in Turkey as well as in the world, but to prevent it, we've built 90 major organised industries in Turkey, 700,000 jobs there.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0107	11 to 12 percent for him, 19 percent for the young unemployed, 30 percent for the university?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0108	There was no road to go to Turkey, and the roads were long thin.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0109	All right, we're here, say that again!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0110	Now, praise be to God, we have travelled 1,700 miles; we are going on long, broad, double roads, by Allah's leave.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0236par0112	Okay, that's right, we spent all the money on the road. You know, it's over, it's a story.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0238par0113	Where were you coming from, Ankara, from the air, Ankara, what were you coming to, helicopter?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0114	In 12 years, only Sivas was invested in 10.5 quadrillion. My time is up, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0239par0117	He's in the right place, time's up!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0228par0118	No, there's plenty, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0240par0119	Yes, there will be a question-answer procedure. Mr. Kuşoglu, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0241par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I understand from my earlier questions that, contrary to the Prime Minister's statements yesterday, there is no increase in public revenue or tax. Did we get that right? So there will be no new tax on luxury expenses, or any new tax on luxury consumption. Therefore, a new tax -- contrary to yesterday's statements -- is out of the question. Thank you if you can shed some light on that.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0242par0124	Thank you. Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0243par0126	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: I asked the Minister of Agriculture: The Court's Control Report of 2013 7/ The situation is that there are 9.906 conflictes between the two institutions, but no response was given to the person who died, including 29,670 who was not listed in the Agricultural Bank data, and 19,670 farmers who were killed in total were given agricultural support in exchange for 49,340 farmers. When will it be taken, how will it be taken, how will it be collected? I've asked Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister at least three times, and I haven't received an answer. There's an explanation, information, guidance...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0242par0129	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0244par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how much did the IMF pay in the last 12 years? How much of this was paid in exchange for a loan received during the AKP administrations? How much did Turkey lend to the IMF?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0245par0133	Turkey to the IMF?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0244par0134	Turkey, of course. Two: How much of the household's income was earmarked for debt payments in 2002 and 2014? How do you interpret the change between these two? My third question is: you said that $1 billion,377 million was spent on the illegal palace, but the building release document issued by the city's municipality says that the price is $78 million over 800 square metres. To whom was the 20 times difference, how was it paid? How can you explain the difference between the two documents? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0246par0138	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0247par0139	Mr. Secretary, a lot of problems have been solved with 2/B, but problems continue on 2/B, and there is a need for a new arrangement. However, you said in one statement that the land of treasure could also be sold, the land used for agricultural purposes, I've told you about it before. But there's been a problem in major cities, with 30 major cities... 1/5 here. It's a thousand, and it's 1/1. Since there are no plans for 000, citizens can't buy the land of treasure, which farmers have used for years, even though they have paid for it. Do you plan to make any changes to these?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0246par0140	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0248par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the stadium in Gaziantep, where you were elected MP for a period, is falling apart. In contrast, the TOKI builds a new stadium near the gentlemen's village, capable of nearly 30,000 spectators. The current stadium is 18,000 spectators, easy access, downtown. Even in the big teams' games, more than half of the stadium is empty. The new stadium is far away, hard to access; the new stadium will likely have fewer spectators. It's a common rumor that the old stadium is being replaced by a mall and a residence. In fact, there's been a zoning change, but it's also been downloaded from the suspension before it expires in response. If the stadium is to fall, it is the will of the Gazianteps to build a green area or a city square. How do you view it, and how do you view it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0249par0144	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0250par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the foreign loan for the supply and modernisation of F-16 planes is 4 billion 700 million, the national budget is 2 billion 960 thousand; the general purpose helicopters are $3.5 billion, the F-35 are $16 billion. Can you explain how much of this is coming out of which bank, which bank, the national budget? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0251par0148	Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0252par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, have you earmarked funds and investments for the White Palace? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0253par0152	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, in this comprehensive reform programme, there are three main areas of the Finance, of course, to improve the quality of revenues and rationalize expenditures, and to fight off unregisteredness. Now, what we mean by increasing the quality of income is that we will increase public revenues with the implementation of this reform, by spreading the tax, by removing some exceptions and privileges, by taxing some areas that are not taxed -- such as city rants. Let me give you a simple example, maybe you're a little bit familiar with it, because I've presented the Plan and Budget Commission: for example, right now, no matter how much profit you make when you hold real estate for five years, it's not subject to taxes, but for example, if the income tax bill that we bring in is accepted by the Parliament, at certain rates, of course inflation will be reduced and so on, but in the end, we're going to subject to a certain rates of tax on real gain. This is the first time this will come, but in addition to this, as I said, there's an additional work in particular at the moment. It's about taxing on the rants created by municipalities, for example, and so on, but it'll be detailed, if you appreciate it. And maybe additional taxes for luxury consumption will be on the agenda.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0255par0156	What about Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0157	Dear friends, we've already, you know, brought, for example, a large volume of motor vehicles in recent years. Now there will be some work done in other areas like this. Recently, you know, there was an EVR on the gemstones before, and there was a very limited income, but now we've brought VAT. So you have to look at this kind of arrangement, and you have to see it in that frame. Mr. Demiröz, you asked a very detailed question about the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm back with my friends, and none of us have any idea. Our Minister of Agriculture isn't responding right now either. If we can get information from them, I'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0256par0159	I can give you his thing if you want.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0160	No, no, I understand that you gave him some statistics, and there were payments made, and how will they be taken back? You said, friends will investigate him.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0256par0161	It was given to 83 to 100-year-old farmers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0162	No, no, I understand, but you'll appreciate that right now it's a very specific question about the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism; I don't have any information in front of me right now, friends, by the way, if he can get it from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, I'd be happy to share it with you. Now, the figures on the IMF have been asked. Friends, they'll probably bring it back from the Treasury, and I'll answer the next question-answer part, but I'll just say, as of May last year, we don't owe the IMF any debt. As far as I know, as of early 2003, our debt to the IMF was about $23.5 billion. We paid for it, and the rest...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0257par0164	Did you get paid in the last four years?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0165	So if the numbers come, I'll be happy to share them with you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0257par0166	Did we lend you $5 billion, sir?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0167	We haven't lent the IMF yet.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0257par0168	Then let those friends get the right information from you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0169	I was at those meetings, those G20 meetings. The IMF had a general demand for that effect, and we also said that we would be positive to them, that we would set aside $5 billion for it, but they haven't borrowed it from us yet, but we can give it to them. By the way, he's here, and I'll tell you, this is the Treasury Undersecretary's public debt management report, page 11, so if you'll excuse me, I'll share the numbers with you right away. Now I'm saying the use of the IMF, or the loans taken from Turkey: $1 billion $770 million in 2003, 1 billion 233 in 2004, 2 billion in 2005, 3 billion in 2006, about $1 billion in 2007, 1 billion in 184 in 2008, 3 billion in 463. Now the total use is now $12 billion,783 million in this period, but net use is minus $29 billion, including the repayments we've made in this period and these uses, so net use minus $24 billion during the AK PARTY administrations period is minus interest. So, in this period that we're obviously paying out of interest, if you subtract these uses, it's $24 billion. Now, in 2003, the end of the semester...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0258par0172	The AKP used exactly 13 of them; the rest were old.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0173	Now, look...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0259par0174	No, no, it's not like that. It's called net use.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0175	Excuse me, excuse me for a second, let me explain: look, the IMF debt supply is 2003 at the end of the semester -- it's not the beginning -- it's the end of 2003, it's $24 billion, 92 million. They didn't put the 2002 numbers here, so the painting goes to 2003. So, at the end of 2003, Turkey's total debt supply to the IMF is $24.1 billion at the end of the period. The last time we owed $864 million in 2012, we reset it as of 2013.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0260par0176	Mr. Secretary, if you'll wrap this up.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0261par0177	Would you answer my question?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0178	Guys, let me try to answer the next thing.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0262par0179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It's for friends.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0254par0180	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0263par0181	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: A) The distribution of the grants given by the 1st article (A). B) incomes to continue collecting according to the legislation related to public administrations under central management (B). C) Basic provisions (C) based on the revenues of public administrations under the central administration. ) The basis for the use and expenditure of some funds (E). D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) management and institutions (F) are estimated to be spent on these opportunities with the cash available to them (F). e) daily and reparations in accordance with Articles 10/2/1954 and Law 6245 (H). f) Financial and other limits (I) that must be shown in the budget law according to various laws and laws. g) In addition courses, conferences, and extra work fees and the sums of other fees (K). đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards (M) run by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Boarding Law 2698. H) The purchase value of animals (O), dated 7/6/1939 and under the Law on National Self-defense No. 3634). I) Under Law 3634, daily rent prices (P) with the average purchase value of motor vehicles, which will be purchased via the national defense contract. i) The type of transports available to public administrations (II) and (III) are available during the year, the type of vehicles available to them in service, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to the Law of Cars 5/1/1961 and under the Law of Cars 237 (T) during the year. j) Home service monthlys (V) bound by laws and decrees. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0264par0204	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 4 of the budget bill. On this occasion, I salute you all. In his speech on the budget presentation, the Finance Minister said that the amount of products that can be bought with the lowest official salary during their administration period has increased significantly, and the net minimum wage is a significant improvement in the ability to buy. Because the AKP government buried its head in 2002, it does not see the improvements in its own period, it does not know the state of the officer, minimum wage and pensioner. I looked at the paintings that the Finance Minister placed in the speech brochures this year and last year. Look, what happened to the amount of product an officer could buy in the last year? The table shows significant reductions in 16 of 21 basic products. For example, the bread that a minimum-month-old officer can buy from 650 kilos to 603 kilos, pasta from 798 kilos to 712 kilos, veal from 73 kilos to 67 kilos, milk from 765 litres to 728 litres. The bread that the minimum-payer can get from 277 kilograms to 300 pounds, the tea from 57 kilos to 50 kilos, the dry beans from 120 kilos to 106 kilos, lentils from 323 kilograms to 173 kilograms. Mr. Secretary, where's the increase, where's the recovery? This year, you admitted to destroying the officer, the pensioner, the minimum wage, in your own numbers. I also looked at the Minister's budget speech last year. Again, the situation has been gravely reduced from 21 products to 15 percent. According to an officer two years ago today, the bread he could buy today is 83 kilos, rice is 108 kilos, veal is 5 kilos, milk is 23 litres less. The bread that minimum wage can buy is 24 kilos, rice is 40 kilos, dry beans are 36 kilos, tea is less than 4 kilos. Don't these numbers clearly show how the officer, the pensioner, the minimum-paying buyer's power has melted? Who cut down on officer's pasta, minimum wage beans? So let the Minister of Finance forget his 2002 obsession and say, in the last two years, who has taken the officer's 250 pounds of bread from the officer, the minimum wage, and who has done it? Besides, debts have never been accounted for. According to the central bank data, in 2002, families split only $5 per $100 income into debt, while that amount exceeded $55 as of 2013. It is clear that more than half of the monthly pensions and pensions are being paid at minimum wage. The AKP's 12 years of execution has finished the middle class in our country and has migrated to the middle. At 11 million, pensioners, widows and orphans, 5 million minimum wage, 3 million public employees are sentenced to hunger, poverty, poverty. The government must now pay attention, stop bullying employees and pensioners. The middle pole must be revived. The minimum wage must be raised to the dignity of mankind, pensioners and pensioners, widows and orphans must be healed, and they must be paid a healing increase to make amends for their losses. Dear MPs, the Prime Minister announced the second package of the Change Programme in Economics yesterday. To save the day, these packages are actually a confession that twelve years have been wasted. Such programmes, such as increasing efficiency in production, reducing dependence on imports, increasing domestic savings and reducing waste, have no credibility. Because whose work is the inefficiency in production, the addiction to imports? Whose politics is it that savings descend to the lowest level in the history of the republic? During the AKP, the levels of savings have gone down. The national rate of domestic savings was 18.6% in 2002 and 13.4% in 2013. In private, the rate has dropped from 23.4 per cent to 9.9 per cent. The savings of the household is only 7 per cent. According to TÜİK studies, half of the nation in financial deprivation can't repair its roof flowing 40 per cent, 76 per cent can't renovate its worn-out furniture, but what is it if it's not a general loss of mind that people call upon the nation to save $1.1.150 at $1.170 trillion of money, buys a new plane for $420 trillion, buys a new government plane, buys a trillion, buys a trillion-year-old car, buys a trillion-old car, takes on displays and blows? The Prime Minister, ministers and AKP spokesmen who came here told us in dollars that poverty has been reduced in our country, that the national income has been tripled, but he's basically read the joke. Someone may have money wallets, steel safes, shoe boxes, hundreds of millions of dollars that can't be reset, villas full of euros, but the nation's vast waste of money owes its debt to the neck, and it's a dead end. The family ministry's 10,578 household research in Turkey has also revealed the family's pathetic state. As of 2011, 72 per cent of households tried to survive on $1,200 per month and below, but only 6.6 per cent of those with more than 2,500 lira incomes were shown in our country. The AKP has established its own lie with its own research. Health premiums are now over 9,200,000 people paid by the state because their income is less than one-third of the minimum wage. Unemployment has become chronic. The official unemployment rate has risen to 10.5 per cent and the unemployment rate has increased by 17.5 per cent and the number of unemployed is 5.5 million. Our young people, who don't have VIP torpedoes, are depressed because they can't find work. Let's assume that these gentlemen's dreams will come true, that if they remain in power, we will hear that there are no homes left that do not apply because of the loan debt, that we will see that one of the two people is unemployed, that there is no room for the elderly in the coffeehouses because of the unemployment of the university, that we will see that they have university exams under the supervision of 10 police, that we will see that the police are spraying the poor in front of their homes, that the markets, the butchers, the tailors, the tailors, the beggars -- we will see that there are no room for the divorce rates -- we will see that there are no one left in the village, we will see that we will see that there are no more than three of our seniors --year-olds --old-olds --olds --inners --inners --inners --inners --inners --inners --inners --inners --ins --ins --in- in- in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-houses-in-in-in-in-houses-in-in-the-the-the-the-the-the-houses-houses-houses-houses-the-houses-the-houses-houses-the-houses-the-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-houses-outs-outststst-outstststs-outstststststststststers-outs-outs-outststs-outs-outs-outs-in-in-in-in-outs-in-We're going to hear you say, because of the Great Middle East Project, we're going to see that the number of our neighbouring countries has doubled, and we're going to see that no one in the country can become a congressman but the Prime Minister's childhood friends, friends from the neighborhood, military friends, friends from the city, and drivers. My dear friends, these words do not belong to me; they have become like Aaron, like Karun. "It was taken from a 2011 speech by Deputy Prime Minister Numan Bökmiş. I'm afraid the developments confirm Mr. Survivmiş's predictions. Yes, it doesn't go on like this anymore, the end of the AKP, the inevitable end is near, which is for the good of our nation and our country. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0265par0219	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0266par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on the fourth amendment of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law bill. We're watching talks at the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We're trying to negotiate a budget law and tell the truth in the ranks of empty power far from this seriousness, and we're trying to share it with our nation. Of course, I'm trying to listen carefully to the ruling party MPs and their ministers who come up here. I look at their faces, and I wonder if they're really saying it. Because I know that there are lawmakers who are repetitive to the lies they've been told, but if someone's trying to twist the facts professionally, I think we're going to have a slightly different way of dealing with them. Now, Mr. Secretary has come out here to defend the privatisations. Look, my dear friends, whatever political party you belong to, I'll give you some numbers, would you do them in your own business? You'll think, "Would you do to your own business what the state does to its property?" They sold the factories of TECEL, 17 factories, 292 million dollars. When it was sold, friends, there was a $100 million supply of raw materials, $30 million in stock. You can tell any lie you want here, but it turns out that you've practically paid for it. Only a year and a half later, these factories were sold for $900 million. I'm asking now: would you sell your 17 factories like this? And if you sold it, would you go out and defend it? Is there no fault in him if you defend him? I guess all of this needs to be accounted for. Sold for $900 million after a year and a half. How did you manage them, how did you attract them, that after a while, their economic value went up to $900 million, after a while to $2.1 billion? These are clear examples of how the state was robbed in Turkey, how the people's property was turned on to supporters. Friends, this 292 million dollars is Turkey's two-day interest allowance if the interest money you pay yearly during the 12 years of your power is calculated. YOU have sold 17 factories of TEKEL for two days' interest money, and you are still defending it here. I really can't think of a word to say. You sold cigarette factories for $1 billion, 720 million, six cigarette factories in the country. No more production in Istanbul, Adana, Bitlis, Malatya, and Tokat. Now the tobacco industry of this country is completely in the hands of strangers. We don't have a single cigarette brand of our own. It produces 200,000 tons of tobacco, and the country is currently unable to produce 50,000 tons of tobacco. 330,000 manufacturers, unable to produce household tobacco, the farmer is going bankrupt, and you're describing it as a privatisation success. You've privatized TELEKOM. You got the tea bird shot with the tea stone. So the man you're after paid off the privatisation, the purchase debt of TELEKOM, with the income of TELEKOM, and you're still standing here defending TELEKOM. Now, you're trying to sell sugar factories. The same will happen to sugar factories, sugar producers. Hopefully, the Minister of Finance of an AKP will not be able to come here next year and defend it. Hopefully, next year, we'll have the power in this country to explain to you how your people's property has been withdrawn. Because the truth never changes.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0267par0229	We'll take the stand.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0266par0230	Stop beating around the bush and pay attention to my words. I'm telling you how people get robbed. If there's any conscience, if there's any sense, pay attention to my words. Forget that you're a AKP MP for a moment. If you don't get a share of these things, say, "Awful!" That's what we expect from you. My dear friends, in 2015, you're planning to collect $94 billion worth of WTV. He says, "Mr. Secretary, we're going to spread the tax to the bottom, we're going to get tax justice." Or, 22 percent of your tax revenues are private consumption taxes. Moreover, the $48 billion of this special consumption tax, the $94 billion special consumption tax, is owned by fuel and natural gas, oil products. Look, I'm going to give you a number: $4.44 in October, and the price of diesel was $1.70. Do you hear me, my friends from the AKP? $1.70 worth of mazot's refinery is the way out. So you put out a share of distribution, you put in a franchise, and then you put in a BTV, and then you collect all this stuff, and then you get a VAT, 18 percent, and you sell diesel to a citizen at $4.44 a month in October. The man who drives this diesel in an 8-cylinder SUV buys it for the same money or buys it for the same money as the farmer who's trying to plow his field with his tractor. Then you tell me about tax justice. But if someone, maybe one of you, gets on luxury yachts and goes on a trip to the Greek islands, they don't get an OTV. Is that what you're telling us about tax justice? A minimum wager gets 890 liras in this country. If anyone says no, I'm ready to prove it at any moment. 250 lira goes to electricity and natural gas, and it's got a VAT in it, and it's got an OTV in it. Is this what you call tax justice? You get taxes on minimum wage, but you don't collect taxes on precious stones. You don't collect taxes from jet fuels, but you don't stop talking about getting up here and getting tax justice. You brought the president's budget at $397 million. In 2014, how much did you predict this year's presidential budget? I'll tell you, it was you again, the Finance Minister, who predicted it for $214 million. I'm asking you this time last year, how am I supposed to trust the Ministry of Finance, who put $214 million in this year's budget for the presidency of 2015 and then wrote $397 million in this year's budget? How am I supposed to trust that if there's so much inequity, so much intuitiveness? Look, Ahmet Necdet Sezer started with 13 million liras, finished with 33 million liras in 2007. Abdullah Gul began in 2008 with 55 million liras, finished at $199m in 2014. Recep Tayyip Erdogan begins at $397m in 2015, and your three-year vision is the presidential budget of $1 billion,295 million. Is this country the kind of country that can budget so much, give so much money to the presidency? I'm asking you, who's going to stand in the way of this waste? Is someone supposed to pay for this or not? There's a lot to say. There are now 202,000 vehicles. Mr. Minister of Finance says: shouldn't he be driving at the Office General of Security? Shouldn't Gendarme General Command be driving? I'm asking you if 15,000 rental vehicles are being used by the Police General Directorate, are they using the General Command? You paid $230 million to rent a car in 2013. What firms, what allies do you attract these vehicles to? We won't ask, but who will? Who will put an end to the reign of this agency's vehicle, the reign of this agency's vehicle driver? He says that I was getting a 350 Mercedes in 2006, and I was riding it, and it's worn out, and it's old, so I got a brand-new S 500 Mercedes this year. This is not $900,000, it's not $1 million, it's $322,000. I'm asking you now: is it necessary that the Christian religious leader, the Pope, is able to perform religious service when he gets into a very ordinary car, but if our President of Religious Affairs, gets in a car with a citizen, can't he get in a religious service, or should he get in a Mercedes? This is not an explanation of humility; this is the statement of the nation's robbery of the state. I'm talking about the people from Twetter, and everybody's saying, "Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0268par0237	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the Article.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0269par0238	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, due to the massacre of Kahramanmarash, I ask God's mercy on our citizens who died due to Operation Return to Life. We say we have to face it because it brought us to the coup d'état of September 12th. Iran has kept 29 Kurdish political prisoners for execution in Urmiye, and has been on hunger strike for thirty-four days. From these executions, we pray and warn Iran to withdraw his hand. Again, today, we got some good news. In Şengal, the ISIS (DAİŞ) gangs have been wiped out, and even if the people of Ezidi are bitter, today they celebrate the biggest festivals we call the "Cejna Ezişi." We're celebrating their holiday. The good news is, in such bad news, Pınar Selek was acquitted today in the 16-year trial. I mean, we're going through a trial like this. Bad news, breaking news, Istanbul 1. The Criminal Court of Peace has issued a warrant for the arrest of Fethullah Gulen with a red bulletin, and they will call it in now. Now, indeed, when we put the photos next to each other, this point is very important for Turkey's critical future, because the government and the community have been accused of being the leader of the armed crime group at the exact moment of 12 years of comradeship, traveling friendship; threat, algebra, slander, these are numbered in the capture decision. In fact, we're calling from here to Hoxha. It's best to come from Pennsylvania to Turkey and take advantage of effective regret, be a confessor, tell your partners what you've been through so that Turkey can see the facts. (CHP cheers) That's the best, greatest no, goodness, prayer for 77 million. Tell the truth. Of course, I'm from here... how you arrested Kurdish politicians - 10,000 -- apologize to them; what you did in Ergenekon, at Balyoz, how you extinguished other people's stove, how you killed their lives in private authority courts, and the account is separate. Of course, Turkey is lemon with the European Union. Who are the friends of the European Union? It's called the President. It's called the Government. Now, Hodja was asked with the red newsletter, what if America doesn't? Here's a new problem, like a ball of light. We'll be at odds with our strategic allies. I mean, we had a falling out with the EU, with Europe. 57 per cent of our imports, our exports were with Europe, 40 per cent of it, and with America, what happens when it breaks down? Think about the economy, the budget, the budget. Now, when I was saying that, before I went into people's loans, Mr. Secretary had promised me that he would print the picture of Hasankeyf. I mean, there could be money in the mint, so, you know, the Ilisu Dam is watered down, 80 percent complete, and he's Batman MP. Last time I checked, you printed Matrakçı Nasuh Efendi's souvenir money on 4 November 2014, Mr. Secretary. I hope you won't neglect Hasankeyf, and as all the fellow lawmakers here, Hasankeyf is printed, not a souvenir, and we want the real money to be cured somehow underwater. Now, I'm going to become a citizen, but when we look at the numbers on people's loans, they're truly terrifying friends. As of March 2014, the number of bank credit cards is 79 million 209... in pursuit of $331 billion, killing people at the foreclosure; one of the reasons why all conflicts, fights, suicides, divorces, children can't read, lives are out. In such a critical situation, of course, our Prime Minister has announced a new action plan: savings. Now, this Savings Division, 2007/3, was first announced during Mr. Erdoğan's Prime Ministership. It's become a habit, and now what is it? The plaque, the ceremony, the official ceremony, the reception... e, brother, you're going as a minister to a city where all the city's chiefs, officers, line up to their servants, to meet a five-mile line, so...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0270par0249	Mr. Hasip has become our Kütahya. Chinese plates were being sold to the court, and now he's gone.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0269par0250	Both he and the Grand National Assembly were serving plates from the Chinese of Kütahya. A little contribution to the economy of the land of the scholar Light... it's gone, it's gone. Now, December 18, 2014. When I saw this incident, I thought of two things. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've ever seen the movie, but India was in Mumbai in a poor neighborhood. He won eight Oscars. How they dream... Now, the citizen will dream. New Year's Eve, 50 million lira lottery bonuses to be handed out. But the Nevşehir Mufti announced today: "Zinhar is forbidden, don't take it." How's this gonna work?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0271par0253	That's where they're gonna pay for the Nevşehir Mufti from before the privatisation there. He'll get his salary from her privatisation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0269par0254	You're getting a Mercedes for $1 million from the tax there to the President of Religious Affairs. Now what? I couldn't figure it out. About that... In fact, Mr. Secretary, in your time of power, if the billionaires were filmed in 12 years, we would blow up Oscar. So believe me, if a movie was made in ten years, how to become a billionaire, it would blow up Oscar. Now, you've removed the equality of weapons. We don't have the tradition of dueling, you know, the northerners do. Last time, in 1820, someone challenged the British Prime Minister to a duel. They became mutual with the Prime Minister, but he didn't fire a gun. Then the Prime Minister pulled the gun under the rules of honor. I looked at the thing in our tradition, Cetin Altan wrote an article, saying: "We have the custom of ambushing. How did I ambush you?," they say. This is December 17th, now December 14th. I don't know; we don't know who, what, how to... A fuatavni has been out for a while. And he hath cast a few tweets, and is in a state to shake your government. I mean, I'm just wondering if it doesn't affect our economy. But since you've passed the law of reasonable doubt with this last security package, in the package of judgment, there will be reasonable killers out of reasonable doubt. These corruption files, the investigation, the Supreme Court. Did you know there was a film by the FBI? The person's life, identity, type, everything is being changed, a whole new person is being made here. So, I guess there will be no other protection for politicians in Turkey now -- in this type of situation -- based on this example of the film "Silici" (Silici). That kind of situation. Mr. Secretary, I mean, why isn't the solution process in this budget? I've always asked. Yeah, 1.2 trillion, 30 years of conflict, the price. Doesn't that have anything to do with it? I mean, really, why didn't that reflect, no minister ever tells it here. There's been no shooting for two years, shouldn't there be a cease-fire? I do. Yeah, even Obama and Castro, they made up. Of course we have to figure this out, but we see that there's no solutions in the budget, and there's no domestic law. We paid the loan to IMF. You say, we bailed out 100 billion outside, we garantized. For whom will you receive 50,000 protections, for the opposition or for yourself? I mean, why do we need 50,000 more guards in savings, and there's already 2 million armed guards in Turkey, soldiers, police, gendarmes and so on? Now, there were one or two things I really wanted to tell you about this coup, about the Constitution, about the election dam, about this treasure help, about the 10% dam... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Those who take advantage of us will not succeed, I'll tell you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0272par0268	Thank you. Ismail Sun is asking for a personal word. He's a Valedictorian. Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0273par0272	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 4 of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute our holy nation and your high council. Dear lawmakers, economic stability and fiscal discipline have been one of our most important issues since the day we came to power. Although there was a crisis in the world in 2008, Turkey averaged 4.9 per year to break the record of the republic's history, despite lack of stability in neighbouring countries such as Syria, Iraq and Ukraine, on the other hand. On the other hand, we've put a lot of emphasis on financial discipline, and we've almost reached our goals on equitable budgeting. When we look where we've come from, when we look at the budgets in the past period, where the budget for 2000 is created, it's said that the budget total is 46.7 quadrillion liras, 21.1 quadrillion liras are paid interest -- 45 per cent interest -- 9.9 million dollars is paid for the officer's salary -- 20 per cent in the budget, and on the other hand, the budget deficit in the budget is 11 per cent -- 23 per cent -- and that's 13 quadrillion percent. Of course, compared to other budgets, this 2015 budget has grown to considerable distances. The 2015 budget is $472.9 billion, and the planned amount is $54 billion, and its share in the budget is 11.4 per cent. The budget, which we have divided into ministries, has increased considerably from 45 per cent to 11 per cent of interest in the budget, to more than 3 times the GDP. The highest share of the 2015 budget is divided into the Ministry of National Education at 87.5 billion euros, with a 7-fold increase compared to 2002, and an 18-percent share in the budget. Over the past 12 years, our number of universities was up to 176, with approximately 234,000 classes, on the other hand, 458,000 staffed teachers. Uğur University was founded in 2006 and Uğur University is rapidly growing up with 11 universities and 22,000 students today. On the other hand, our Ministry of National Education has invested a total of 957 classrooms in the Uber province, which is worth 167 million TL. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health is one of our second largest budgets, and its share in the budget is 17 percent... During this period, a significant amount of investments were made in the Butler State Hospital with 400 beds, while the construction of 60-bed spouses and Banaz state hospitals is under way, and our new Health Department building is under contract.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0274par0279	I was wondering if the number of beds went up or down.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0273par0280	During this twelve-year period by our Transport Ministry, the 2500km double road was built, the 1,500km speed railway road, and the 6,000km railway road was renovated. Many of these roads have been renovated and are still under way by investing 460m euros in the footman's province. On the other hand, agriculture is very important. In 2000, your share of agriculture from the budget is roughly seven in a thousand, and we've saved $2.1 per cent and $10 billion in today's money.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0275par0282	Oh, stop with the memorizing, they're handing out the same textiles to all of you? They're memorizing, bro!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0276par0283	You don't know what you're doing with agriculture.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0273par0284	So, on the other hand, of course, during our administrations, TOKI was very agitated and over 500,000 housing were built across the country. There were 2,500 dwellings in the footman's district, with an investment of 582 million TL.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0276par0285	Look, in the ten years since 2002, 614,000 homes were built, the TOKI didn't do much more, so you should know that. In fact, you used to be in CIT, following them.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0273par0286	On the other hand, the roads, sewers, infrastructure in many villages have been done, and the Butler province has been earmarked for $64.5 million. On the other hand, our Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs invested 268 million TL in the Butler province. For twelve years, our servant received an investment of 3.5 billion euros and saw investments that he had not seen in his history during our administrations. On the other hand, significant distances have been made in terms of fighting poverty, while the number of populations below $4.3 per day -- the poverty limit in previous years -- has dropped to 2.1 per cent of the total population today. Hence, significant distances have been made in the budget and in the economy. I hereby wish that our 2015 budget would be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0277par0291	Then you've got nothing left to do, so let's go. You've got nothing left to do, you've done everything.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0273par0292	We need to do some more.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0278par0293	Binnaz Ürk, İstanbul MP who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Land.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0279par0296	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, in my speech yesterday, when I was talking about TÜBITAK, I said that the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Mr. Fikri Light and Deputy Mr. Davut Kavranoğlu have appointed the AKP District Chairman in Gebze. Mr. David Kavranoglu called me today, said he didn't know this person and that this information was wrong. Correction and I apologize to him. Now, my talk is about the implementation of the budget law (E) on Fazil Say, on the basis of expenses related to protecting, promoting, and spreading Turkish cultural presence during the 44th time of the budget law (E). In fact, if you know the identity of Fazil Say (Fazil), you also know that this ruler matches the description that was written during the 44th time. So the Turkish culture is our artist who maintains its presence, introduces it, spreads it, and also introduces our country abroad. One of Turkey's rare geniuses, Fazil Say, and not only as a pianist, but also as a composer, is a world-famous artist. Many national and international award winners and the country's -- as I just said -- repetitive cultural envoy in the international arena. I don't know if you've ever listened to Fadil Say Like a magician, you're pulled out of your seat, you're drawn into his piano, you're captivated. Those who don't go, those who don't listen, please leave. But the genius of Fazil Sayίe is not about piano magic. Its genius is that it blends with its compositions both the culture of this land and its international cultural elements. Those who treat him as an enemy of this country's values because of their political opinion should examine his background. The works he composed in memory of Nasrettin Hoxha, Lover Veysel, Sait Faik, Metin Altuk; the Nazim Hikmet Oratoryo, Mesopotamia and İstanbul Symphonys; Omar Hayyam Klaret Concerto, Hezarfen Concerto, 1001 Nights Concerto in Harem. It's inspired by the folklore, culture and fairy tales of these lands and neighboring countries. He uses Darbuka, what he uses. He used these instruments to add both classical Ottoman music and the Anatolian cultural tradition to classical Western music. He reflected this geography in his works with Istanbul and Mesopotamian Symphony. The First World War, the Sivas massacre, took music pictures of the painful events of our history, such as the Trip. Now, I want to remind the people who found him, Fazil Say, not only does he give concerts to classical Western music fans in concert halls of major cities, he goes all over this country. In fact, he had his piano carried to the villages and performed in the village squares. What I'm trying to say is that he, the child of this land, feeds from this land and carries the cultural codes of this country that he was born and lived in into universal arenas. Now, when it's necessary to honor an artist of this size, it's being done the opposite way, it's being tried to be alone.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0280par0300	They call the piano an invention, but they use a cell phone.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0279par0301	In the first five months of 2015, he will perform 37 concerts in 10 different countries, and unfortunately, we are unable to listen to Fazil Say. His work was removed from the program, even though the Presidential Symphony Orchestra was put on the 2015 program. Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Omar Çelik has to explain the reasons for this decision. Fazıl Saya ▪ has tens of thousands of loved ones in this country, and a petition has been launched on this decision. The AKP cannot have such hostility towards anyone who does not embrace its world view. And my advice to the Ottomans is: try to understand, not just with gravestones. With the opera at Abdulhamit's palace... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...with the representations of Sarah Bernhardt, the famous theater artist Sarah Bernhardt, the piano playing by Abdulhamit, the piano he taught all the princes and sultans, the classical music works and concerts at the palace. Finally, I'd like to repeat a statement from the Turkish musician Haci Arif Bey to Abdulhamit. I'll tell those who attempt to censor Fadil Say, that Haci Arif Bey said: "There is no will in art. I mean, there is no sultan's command in art. Thank you so much for listening to me.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0281par0308	Yes, now the question-answer will be done. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0282par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, are teachers and professors expected to receive additional tuition increases? It's a very serious remaining pen. Secondly, what resources did the armored Mercedes vehicle that was purchased for the President of Religious Affairs from, and how much was it purchased for? The third question: Is there a reduction of EV and VAT from agricultural inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, bait, and so on used by our farmers? Do you have anything to say to our farmers about this? Finally, is it true that media reports have reached an agreement between your government and the terrorist organization that the agreements on the so-called solution process have been withheld from the public, and how much do you know about it? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0283par0316	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0284par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you said you didn't know the amount of material and goods that were brought from abroad to be opened in the Commission regarding this presidential palace. Is that a weakness of the budget or the system, or don't we really know? Can you give me an explanation for that? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0285par0320	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0286par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I hope you'll answer my question just now. Indeed, moving the games to the new stadium would hurt Gaziantepspork the most. I'm moving on to the section on Gaziantep. Even official authorities in Gaziantep state that there are many philanthropists who are ready to build schools, but because of the lack of school land, these philanthropists cannot make schools. In this case, how can you afford to have municipalities line up in Gaziantep to allocate land for the school? I've just said, that's what I'm asking you for being here as a member of Gaziantep for a while. Another question, Mr. Secretary: At the end of 2002, when you came to power, what was the rate of the Central Bank currency reserve to meet short-term debts, and what is that rate now?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0287par0325	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0288par0326	Mr. Secretary, you're making a statement on the amount of loans received from the IMF. Now, the question I want to ask is, is Turkey a partner in the IMF? Two: Is the interest on loan from the IMF more or less than interest on loans from other financial institutions? How much is the state's foreign debt now, except in the private sector, how much is it? Again, how much foreign debt do you plan to borrow in 2015? And I didn't get the answer to the question I asked in the previous article, and I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that about the sale of 2/B and Treasury Lands.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0287par0328	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0289par0329	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to share with you a question as to why the privatisation victim YEDAS Electric workers have not been paid in three and a half years, and I'd appreciate it if you could give me some information. In addition, in your speech, you gave information on when the value detection results for privatisation will be published. As Ankara MP, I watched the presidential privatisation very closely. After the privatisation, I asked the Privatisation Administration to apply for value assessments, but in the article they gave me, they haven't responded to my writing because the stock transfer hasn't been completed yet, but as you know, on 31 May 2013, the stock contract for PresidentGAZ was signed. Therefore, since the reason for the Privatisation Administration has been eliminated, would you please explain the number of values determined for all of their assets in the tender.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0287par0331	Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0290par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I repeat the question I just asked. Did you transfer funds, funds from the grants and investments to the White House? How much is the amount? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0291par0335	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0292par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there's one or two leftovers from the previous QA session, so I'll answer them quickly. On April 26, 2012, when the Law 2/B was published, there is no problem selling treasured land outside the municipal area, there is no need to make any changes. It's just been said that there's no problem with the fact that the treasures used by our farmers are sold in major cities by 1/5000, or that there are no plans for 1/1000, so there's no problem. Because, as we passed the law, we said we'd take it on the basis of the Mujavir field in April 2012. Now, again, one of the questions asked was about renting a car. I told you before, the number of vehicles rented in 2014 is 15.010. A total of 253 million liras were spent in 2014 for rental vehicles. This corresponds to five percent of the budget. There was a question about the F35. The total cost of joining the partnership was $929 million, $354 million that has been paid so far, and no other payment has been made. But the total cost of supplying 100 planes is $16 billion. Now, let me get back to the questions that were just asked. We don't have any further studies that have been completed as of now, but in 2014, you know, in general, we gave all our officers a gross $175 raise in income, and our teachers an additional 150 -- you know -- a increase. We've also given our academics some serious increases recently, and there's been an increase between $726 and $835. If he's on a diet, he's got to get it from his budget sources. It's not something we're working on as of right now, with a discount like KTV, VAT, fertilizer. The solution process is a process that will really strengthen Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0293par0345	Then why did you decide to hide it from the public?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0292par0346	I wish we had time to talk a little bit more, but since your other friends have questions, I'll move on. Now, in any building or any project... in that project, sir, you know, the origins of the products used and so on are subject to Court control. And in the exact account, those numbers can be presented, but there's no logic to what origins, whats, whats, whats, what's being used, whether it's being managed, so I don't think it's going to do much good at the point of follow-up. As for the questions about Gaziantep, of course, you can appreciate that many of our provinces have been given protocols to replace the status quo. When these protocols were under way, there was no source left in the public budget. It's more like handing over the current place to the TOKI, and in return, the TOKI will do... Now, if an alternative place in Gaziantep can be presented in some way, the assessment may be different, but as of now I can't tell you this because if it were just Gaziantep, we would sit down and say, let's take a look; now, in our 20-odd provinces, 25 provinces, if I remember correctly, it's in this direction, so it's on the agenda to replace the existing stats, and it's much more expensive. It's a local matter, but it has a TOKI dimension. You know we don't transfer resources to TOKI. So, how is TOKI going to do the new stadium, and how is he going to finance it? This, of course, needs to be discussed, to be discussed. At the school point, when I was a congressman there, we made a really big effort. I know that there's a shortage of spaces in certain neighborhoods, but we've also recently set up treasure opportunities specifically for his solution, and you know that the state's private administration doesn't exist anymore, but in the past, all of their resources have been cashed in, and there's been a lot of serious schoolwork in this direction, but of course, if there's an additional effort, we're sensitive at the school point. Really, if I remember correctly, we've had 234,235,000 classes since 2002. We need more. So in many of our provinces, you know, there are now some efforts in campuses. And at that point, of course, we do our part. You asked for a statistic on the end of 2002. He's not in front of me right now, but if he comes in the next session, I'll be happy to answer.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0294par0352	Mr. Secretary, that's a simple matter, if you know what I mean.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0292par0353	No, no, like this: I'll give you the exact number. Of course I know something, but then you say, "The answer is not true." Let's not have an unnecessary discussion. Dear friends, Turkey, like other countries, is, of course, a partner in the IMF. If IMF sources are cheap or expensive...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0295par0356	Mr. President, let's give Mr. Secretary a few minutes about the questions we've been asking.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0296par0357	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0292par0358	Thank you. The other thing is, is the market interest cheap or not? It's actually how many times the quota you're owed, because as you borrow it, there's an increased interest mechanism. So if you mean 2002-2003, you have to look at it, but at the time, Turkey had no access to the markets. I was in London at the time and the IMF came in because Turkey couldn't borrow money from the markets. And let's not forget that the IMF is not just about the cost of debt. The IMF's debts come under very heavy conditions. Now, those heavy conditions have many dimensions; they have economic dimensions; they have political dimensions. Thus, it is an important achievement that Turkey has paid off its IMF debts fully, closed the chapter in the period of the EC PARTI governments, an important achievement in every respect, and it is necessary to look at the fact that Turkey is skipping a class. Now, you've asked about the number on the external debt. The public sector's external debt is 64.5 billion dollars in 2002, and if you add the Central Bank, 22 billion dollars in total, the Central Bank in 2002, $86.5 billion, according to the number given by friends here in terms of the public sector. As of the second quarter of 2014, it went from 119.5 billion dollars -- in the sense of the central government -- in the sense of public opinion -- to 4.3, if you look at the total of the central bank, it went from 22 billion to 4.3 billion dollars. As a matter of fact, Turkey has not increased the public's external debt, even since the public's reserves are increasing very quickly, Turkey is now in debt from the world. The last time I looked at Turkey's net external debt, it was about minus 4.8 per cent, so Turkey's net external presence, in a sense, in a public sense, has increased the debt of the private sector, but the private sector has also increased its assets. I'll give you a number: the real investments of the private sector went up to 254, if you buy the real 2002 100, in 2013 -- if I remember it wrong. So there's been a serious increase in private sector investments, and there's been a real increase in real investments. Now...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0297par0363	Mr. Secretary, please let's wrap this up.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0298par0364	Can you give me the private sector debt figures, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0297par0365	Next item. Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0299par0368	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0297par0369	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0299par0370	Mr. President, we have a request for the 5th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit06spe0297par0371	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0297par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. The commission and the government are in place. I'm going to read the 5th article...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0300par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0297par0006	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0300par0007	Mr. President, our group on Article 5, 6 and Article 3 of the Bill of the Budget Law has a claim against the Constitution. We'd like to open a legal debate on this. We'd like to ask you to do so. As such, Article 163 of our Constitution shall be established by the Budget Law, which shall determine the funds and amounts given by the central management budget. However, the budget law has been separated from Article 5, 6 and the third article of the final account and has been authorized to transfer it to the budgets of other ministries related to the Finance Ministry and to spend on unscheduled expenditures in the budget. This is contrary to the Constitution; we would like to open a discussion of procedure in this regard.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0297par0008	Mr. Gök, if you'd like to have a statement from the Commission and the government first, but our presidency is also not authorized to discuss the matter due to violation of the Constitution. I mean, what's the point of opening up the debate? We'll open up a legal debate, let's face it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0300par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0297par0010	The presidency is not authorized to discuss the matter due to violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0300par0011	We'd at least like to keep the debate on the record...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0297par0012	Mr. Sky, you have my word. In favor, against?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0301par0014	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0302par0015	Against you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0303par0016	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0304par0017	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0305par0018	Lehte.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0306par0019	Against you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0307par0020	Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0308par0023	Mr. President, dear friends, the budget has been set up in that frame, as it was in previous budgets. The Constitution does not give the Council of Ministers the authority on the increase in 163 budgets. There is no prediction of such an increase; there is a mandate given to the Finance Ministry within the scope of the budget as it passes through the Commission alone, which does not create any contradictions with 163. Therefore, there is no violation of the Constitution, and this claim is not valid. When your presidency is determined to reject the claim of violation of the Constitution, practice in the past years will be consistent, and an application on the same line will be carried out. On this occasion, I don't think this is a matter that requires a lot of detail, but I would like to add two sentences to the discussion that was just made about art. Art is really important. I'm not going to tell you the history of art. They supported aristocratic and bourgeois art in Europe. We too have supported the Ottoman court because we have no bourgeois, no aristocratic. After the republic was established, the central government supported it. But we've had a role in art, which has created a serious allergy to the public: the central elite who wanted to sort of man the nation wanted to use art as a political tool, to see the people as an instrument of discipline and to politicalize art. This has given the public an allergy in its historical course. In fact, in some circles today, we still see traces of this tradition. If there is no discussion, there will be no quarrel between the artists of the West and Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, Tchaikovski, Chopin, and Peruvian artist, Yma Sumac, or Pakistani artists, and artists of the world. We've always had a lot of respect for art. It is wrong to use art as an instrument of politics, as an element of discipline and correction. And when it's actually used like that, you have to understand the civil reaction that people have. I think it would be more appropriate to consider the matter in this framework. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0309par0027	Thank you. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0310par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I'll try to make this very simple, very technical. The Constitution's 161st and 163st Articles have organized this issue, briefly stated that it is by law to prepare, to offer, to be audited. There is no external spending in the budget that is not foreseen. The Public Financial Management and Control Act No. 5018, which has already come out during your time, in your time of power. A framework is set here according to the Constitution. It's clearly in the law how to do it, how to present the budget, how to supervise it, and how to follow it. We add a clause to the budget law every year. As Mr. Levent mentioned earlier, with the 5th article, the 6th article, and the 3rd article of the Final Account Law, we simply pierce this Law in 5018, each year. The Ministry of Finance -- of course, there are extraordinary circumstances -- Law 5018 already authorises it. In extraordinary cases, the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, has the following authority, he says. ▪ He says he can spend more. He says he can use backup funds. That's what he says, but he says it's within certain limits. Each year, we cross these limits with the Budget Law. We're breaking a law that's been passed according to the Constitution. We're doing it against the Constitution every year. Mr. Plan and the President of the Budget Commission are here, so there's no need to be a lawyer. We are clearly in violation of the Constitution. Now, we don't need to take this to the Supreme Court. Here, you guys have to take this into account, which means we have to process it. Otherwise, when we take it to the Constitutional Court, it's obviously going to be a big problem when it's canceled, it's going to be a big problem. We wanted to warn you about this at first, that when the 5th article talks started, we wanted no problems later, that's the point. Let me tell you something about what Mr. Naci Hodja just said. Art is universal, we want our art to be world-class, we want our artist to be accepted by the whole world. Art must be universal. We're a universal artist, and in connection with this, Binnaz Hodja made certain points during his speech. It's not a political issue; it's an art issue. We wished that he would be opened up, the censorship would be removed, the troubles would be eliminated on this matter, and that's all we've indicated, and so did Hajji. That's what it's all about. Thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0311par0035	Thank you. Recai Berber, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0312par0039	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, of course, at this hour of the night in the budget talks, we've been exhausted and we've had a long discussion of procedure, and we've had a long discussion in our Commission, and I think it's only for the record, as they say. But if you look at the Commission reports, it was recorded there for a very long time. And I, in a very short way, specifically, told him the technique, and I'll tell you that. Basically, the 163th article of our Constitution is a matter of Parliament's budgetary rights. So, as Parliament, when we're doing budget law, we set the spending limit. The budget is tied to the following figure: 473 billion. It cannot be granted to the Finance Ministry by this law or given to the Council of Ministers. He doesn't have that kind of authority. There's no arguing about it. It's specifically called -- it's been used in the past years -- to drill through 5018, something like that. Law number 5018 is a law, and the Budget Act is a law, a law, a law that has been given by Parliament to authorise the Ministry of Finance, a clause. Therefore, there is no advantage over one law.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0313par0042	The Budget Law should not be in violation of 5018, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0312par0043	And it's not out of the question. Let's fix it right here -- let's say it's because of your criticism. Since you have interpreted the funds that the Finance Ministry has transferred to other institutions by receiving additional grants for funds, the Finance Ministry is taking the authority this year, specifically on the 5th and 6th article this year: I will not accept these funds, so let me not cause an increase in additional funds... you said: the Finance Ministry has spent 37 billion dollars last year.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0313par0045	I said the number.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0312par0046	This is how the Court reviews it, judging it from 5018. But if he looked at the law that we passed last year, and looked at the Budget Law, he would not have to do so. Of course, according to your criticism, this year the Ministry of Finance is taking direct authority as a result of the Court's criticism: I will transfer these funds to the institutions concerned as extra funds without my own presumption, says the Ministry of Finance. That's all authority is. Therefore, there is no grant in question, nor does it give the Ministry of Finance or the Council of Ministers any authority to increase costs in a way that will increase costs in the budget, contrary to the Constitution. It is wise to understand this in such a simple and clear way. But we thank you again for your contribution. In accordance with the Court's views, this Budget Law has already been arranged. I think that's how the Court of Presidents will use the power of appreciation, as well as the presidency. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0314par0050	Thank you. Alim Ikım, MP of Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0315par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm saying that it's not normal for Mr. President of Plan and Budget Commission to refer to the move of these discussions in terms of business, and you know better than we do that nothing is spoken here as a business. Dear lawmakers, of course the 5th article of the Budget Law, in meeting personnel costs, in transferring backup funds, in changing the funding for boosting investments again, are envisioning giving the Finance Minister the authority to transfer on the costs of natural disasters. However, you know very well that one of the most mentioned issues in the Court's reports is that, unfortunately, public institutions and corporations have been reported to have overfunded expenditures and that these spendings have pierced Law number 5018 spiritually and in the process of implementing them. Unfortunately, the Court's executives, in their reports, would have cut into these issues because there are certain reports. Therefore, the Constitution must be re-evaluated and evaluated, and the Constitution must be in accordance with the provisions of the 161st article, as stated by the previous speakers, to prepare the budget and implement its provisions, and to make changes in the 163s again. The budgets can not be judged that the amount limit of ministers can be exceeded by the decision of the Council of Ministers. Again, the irresponsibility of the ministers is incumbent. I'd like to point out that the issue is in place and that the position of the President should be based on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0316par0057	Thank you. Members of parliament, as it is known, according to Article 38 of the Civil Code, the commissions are obliged to first examine whether or not the bill or proposals referred to to them are contrary to the text and spirit of the Constitution. The Commission must reject it before it meets the provisions of the bill and proposal that it considers unconstitutional. The Plan and Budget Commission did not view the Budget Bill as unconstitutional, so the report has been sent to our presidency and the bill is still under discussion. In the General Assembly, it is possible to express claims of violation of the Constitution, and the General Assembly can seriously reject claims of violation of the Constitution. Again, the motions for rejection are voted before other proposals, on the grounds that a specific clause of the proposal is contrary to the Constitution during the meeting of the General Assembly, according to Article 84 of the Civil Code. In this framework, our presidency is not authorized to discuss the matter due to violation of the Constitution. Therefore, my attitude towards the discussion of matter remains. I'm having it read: MADDE 5- - (1) Payment to Cover Staff Expenses: If it turns out that public administrations and budgetary budgetary funds under the general budget will not be sufficient for the budgets of private budgetary administrations, there will be arrangements related to "Personal Expenses" and " State Prim Expenses for Social Security Institutions," or to be opened new, the Finance Ministry budget will have a budget of 12.01.31. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To make a transfer from the grant in the scheme of one, 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From the six-securities, the public administrations within the general budget and the budgets of private budgetary administrations (01), (02), (03), (05) and (08) in the very urgent and mandatory conditions (06) and (07) in the economic codes that include economic codes, 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From the grant in the 3 structures of the 2015 Year Programme, to comply with the principles of Co-ordination and Tracking Decisions, to step up investments in the primary sectors of 2015 as needed according to the implementation of the 2015 Investment Programme, or to diversify them to the current or new settings of private budgetary administrations, according to the conditions that develop within the primary sectors and lower sectors, and to increase projects that need to be new to the programme. (4) Payment for Natural Disaster Expenses: 12:01.31 of the Finance Ministry budget. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. The Finance Minister is in charge of transferring the funding, which is available or will be opened to all natural disaster costs of private budgetary and public administrations under the general budget, as long as it is associated with the investment-quality investment programme in terms of investment-quality costs. Hope Oran, İstanbul MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0317par0077	And the Vice President of Socialist International.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0318par0078	I salute the High Council. There's something else out of the budget today. Just five years ago, the executioners of dignity took Colonel Ali Tatar. We were at his grave this afternoon with his spicy family. Congressmans, the late justice is not justice. If any of you defend him, and have courage, let him look into the eyes of Mother Sati. Something else happened while we were at the grave today. Government Fascism stormed the Istanbul County Building of the main opposition party, our Republican People's Party, with illegal orders. Yesterday, without a court order, they searched not only in Aydın, but today in Sakarya, Opeelli, Denizli, Isparta. There's no law in this country, there's no justice. As the Great Leader Ataturk said: "The existence of an independent nation cannot be accepted in the state. We will break the law of the rulers in this land, whether you want it or not. We will rule over the rule of law.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0319par0082	That's what we're doing, that's what we're doing.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0320par0083	We want him, too.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0318par0084	Congressmans, this budget -- it's been spoken of for a week -- is not the budget of people, workers, pensioners, workers, farmers, employees. The AKP government's budget, which raises the officer 3+3, boasts the minimum wage and raises $30, will only be this big. The 13th budget you have prepared is not the budget of the people, but of the numbers, of the thalas, of the billions that are distributed to the sides, as you have already prepared. Your Honor, lawmakers, this budget is of no use to Turkey, it will not move Turkey one inch further. There are cliffs when you look between us and the G20 countries that the government boasts about taking part in. We were 16 in G20, we were 17 in the year before, we were 19 in the year before, we almost fell off the G20 list. Look, we're in the 65th place of income per person. We are the 2nd in the world, the 1st in Europe, in the injustice of income. We're 89 percent in the world's democracy index. We are the 120th in male-female equality, the 134th in press freedom, 43rd in 65 countries in internet freedom. We still have 5.5 million unemployed, 29 million citizens living under the poverty line. In business accidents, we are Europe's first, the world's third. As a result, whatever you do in the economic field, human rights, democracy, freedoms, if Turkey can't get into G20, there can't be complete progress. There's only one way to get rid of this dark painting: investing in women, children, education. But when you look at it, unfortunately, men and women are not equal. You have also reset our women in the working life, saying, "The woman must have at least three children." The number of women unemployed increased by 30 per cent in 2014. It's up 70 per cent when you look at a college woman as unemployed. With those who have lost hope and are not looking for a job, the real unemployment in women is 26 percent. By the way, when we say unemployment, we think of employees. With this clause, the reserve funds for personnel expenses are also earmarked. This is normal for the AKP government. And the Minister of Finance is right. Torpille is taking so many personnel by favoring people, it's not clear who, where, what they're getting into, and it's not clear at the moment what funds to these torpedoed personnel. There's no telling when, where, or what instructions will come. It's unacceptable in a country where all the rules of democracy are run by equality of opportunity. In addition, the funding for boosting investments is also put into the budget. Clearly, one rejoices at first, saying, "How beautiful, the investments will be completed, and the face of the citizen will smile. " But the goose's foot isn't like that when you look at it.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0321par0090	If the citizen doesn't smile, he won't give us the game.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0318par0091	When you say "investment," you think of runaway palaces, Vahdetttin mansions, and flying palaces. And when you say "cost," you think of cutting down on the cost of plaques. There's no goodwill here, there's no intimacy here. There are no investments to address the citizen's concerns. We all know that the money that will be left here will be transferred to the illegal palace and to the endless demands, endless expenses of the 12th President, and thus to a covered allowance. I'd also like to make a call that the Minister of Finance isn't here. The economy is upside down every time the 12th President opens his mouth. In order for the investor to see the way, I think Mr. Finance Minister should publish the RTE index, otherwise when you look at the state of the economy, it's ruined. Look, a penny increase in currency increases our external debt by $4 billion. Just look at December 18th-18th, and we have an additional $58 billion in foreign debt. Mr. Erdogan speaking, the exchange is increasing. In the meantime, I'd like to point out that the government is having its last days, warning me. The 12th President will convene the Council of Ministers starting in January, starting to form his own cabinet. I warn the AKP ministers, you said parallel, parallel, but you've got a whole new parallel government coming out of you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0322par0094	You don't even believe it yourself!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0323par0095	Look at the Constitution, the Constitution!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0318par0096	Congressmans, do you know why all this is happening, let alone looking at the Constitution? It's corruption. Corruption, like a vicious uur, is involuntary to refute the government. Don't worry, there's an antidote to corruption. Look, the antidote to corruption is political ethics and political morality. It doesn't work for the government, but in your party program -- the MPs here know -- you promised to fight corruption. Here's the intimacy test, the Republican People's Party on the anniversary of the December 17th corruption and bribery investigation. We, the People's Party, have submitted the Political Ethics and Moral Law Proposal on December 17th. Let's all take this off together. We, the Republican People's Party, have been trying to pass this law for the past three years. I'm speaking to Mr. Davutoglu here, if you're sincere about fighting corruption, if you want clean politics, honest governance, open society, let's take this law out together in the week of the December 17th-25th fight against corruption and rebuild political trust. The law is here. I just told you, it's been three semesters; 22, 23, 24.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0324par0097	That's the law, not the law.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0318par0098	It's been 14 years. Each time we said, let's make this political ethics law, political morality law, integrity in politics together. Come on, let's take it off, why don't you? Here's the law, here's the House, here's the opposition, here's the challenge.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0325par0100	If we do, you can go to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0326par0101	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0327par0102	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0326par0103	Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the matter.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0327par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0326par0105	Just a moment, Mr. Ayhan. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0327par0107	The speaker used a statement in the form of the government's fascism, facing our group. In the total context of the words Fascism...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0328par0108	He didn't say AKP.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0327par0109	Whose government is the government? The AKP government. He's got his own statement.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0329par0110	What makes you think it's the government?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0330par0111	It's not the AKP government, it's the Turkish government.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0327par0112	He's got his own statement. Fascism is not used as an academic discussion element in the everyday language, but as an element of insult and accusation. I demand a say in this frame.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0331par0113	He's gonna defend running the law now?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0114	It's already been filed, Mr. Bostanci. It's 10:00 p.m., please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0333par0116	The ministers will answer him, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0117	Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0334par0118	Can I have a word, please?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0119	Please, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0335par0120	Yeah, he didn't say anything, he didn't promise, so why do you want it?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0334par0121	I stand by my word, I repeat AKP fascism.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0122	Mr. Oran...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0334par0123	Because our Istanbul Province Building has been raided by the AKP İstanbul Province of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0124	Mr. Oran, please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0336par0125	He's got a court order. There is no court order. You said, he has a court order.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0332par0126	Let Mr. Ayhan speak, I promise. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0337par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have taken a vow to present the views of the National Movement Party on the 5th article under the bill, under which funds can be used. I salute the grand jury. In this article, there's a grant to cover staff costs, reserve funds, a grant to accelerate investments, a grant to pay for natural disaster costs. The last one, if we leave out the grant to pay for natural disasters, may benefit from the fact that others are here, that they are in the budget law, and that they are in practice, but I would like to say that this is against the spirit of Law 5018. Why? Because if you're going to accelerate investments, if you need additional funding, then you don't know where it is, you don't know where to put it; that's number one. Second of all, you don't know your priorities. Then, I've just asked Mr. Secretary twice, on both counts, did he receive funds from here to the White Palace? I didn't get an answer. Maybe it wasn't enough time. He can say it either way, but... What I specifically wanted to ask was that I have been a budget person since 1980. These investments are accelerated, reserve funds and so on, and so on and so on, and so on, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth and so forth. I've just spoken to our former Minister of Finance, so there's very little to the completion of the dams, and you're going to start it right away, energy projects and so on, and so on, and so forth. What about the High Planning Board and the Planning Board? It would have been approved, spoken out. Now, of course, when you look here, I'm a little upset about whether or not it's taken seriously. If I didn't misunderstand here -- and our spokesman before me, our friend, has expressed when we were talking -- it's not nice to be reminded of the fact that there were some talks about the procedure here, or something to do with it. Another is the matter of the Court. In the matter of the Court, what are the words of the Court, which I personally regret, which have come out of the ranks of the Court, of its experts, of its rulers, of which part of its rulers are broken? It's sad. The Court was an extremely powerful organization of this country's truly institutional structure. However, what did change and practice in recent years do? It's a pain in the ass. As for the other issues: you've already tied the costs of the staff with your fellow unions for a fee, and you've got no problem with that. Then why do you need such a staff expense? You're suffering yourself. I can't afford it. This was there before, it wasn't gone. And in that respect, I will not subject the government to a very large criticism. However, there is a problem with the government's economic staff. In 2017, they announced their national income to Mr. Prime Minister at $970 billion; ministers were lined up behind him, told him so. But when you looked at the targets earlier, they made it look like 1.3 trillion for 2018. Now, the big difference is that when you're going to G20, when you're going to take the lead of G20... wherever you go to the world, it's a mistake, we said it wrong, it's a number that we're going to redefine. I don't personally refer to the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. After all, he is Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. And when you think about it that way, I can tell you that there's a really big problem with economics management. Mr. Secretary, perhaps your field or not, but I'd like to point out, if it were the Finance Minister, I would really like to say, in this interest issue, the government needs to clear up its problems, its problems, the government, the people in the economy's different wing on interest. They may think differently, but someone's going to leave the president of the Federal Reserve standing on the street not beating him with wood, and someone else is going to say something different. I said it would put Turkey's credibility abroad in great straits for economic consideration. I told the Minister of Economy here. The two ministers before you had the same fight with the Central Bank, he said, they went for interest. I've been told, he said: "Faiz has taken the lobby." I said -- I said, you know, I want to repeat -- he didn't take the interest lobby, but I leave it to you to appreciate what his lobby has taken away. There's no point in talking different at this time of night. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, to take this matter seriously. Look, how sensitive are the numbers coming from where? Now, I don't want to choke on numbers at this time of night, but when you look at it, I can tell you very clearly that your macroeconomic goals in 2015 are already kats. What goals will you say? Inflation, unemployment... what else do we have to say? I don't know what you're saying about interest, pass it on to your friends, but other than that, when you look at it, we're actually seeing in what stage the growth is already in, what growth has become. What does it do to be unemployed when you grow up like this? He pulls it up, everybody knows that. I told you in March there'd be double-digit unemployment with low growth. So as we speak here, we know that in the next stages, what we say will be tested and tested by the public and by the economies. So we knew it would turn out this way, and so I went back today to see what we had to say and what we had to say. You didn't believe what we said, but we did. The point you're coming to today about inflation, the point you're coming to about unemployment, the point you're coming to about interest, the point you're coming to about growth... when you're looking at other economic data... I was going to talk a little bit about taxes, expenditures, but outside of your area, when Mr. Finance Minister comes to me, I ask him if he's going to say something, but I ask him if he's going to give back-up funds to this runaway palace, to the White Palace, to the cross-reference, are you at ease, conscience, after seeing the boy in Ermenek, after he died in the mine? That's what I wanted to ask you. Otherwise, we're going to be discussing business economically, economically better than anyone else, and we need to tell them what we need to tell them, and your group knows red tape and public opinion, but what I'm really sorry about is that this money is people's money. People's situation isn't really what you know, it's what's bothering them. The money you spent on that illegal palace would have saved and protected people's lives by building private rooms in Ermenek, Soma. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I want to express it. I'll talk about the stuff in front of us, and then we'll talk about other things, hopefully. Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0338par0144	Thank you. Mr. Bostanci, I promised you two minutes because of the bullying. You've already explained his motive. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0339par0149	Mr. President, dear friends, the valuable speaker, Mr. Hope Oran, said he came from a cemetery today and spoke in a sensitive voice about persecution and victimization. Aside from the debate about whether people are victims, if there's a sense of victimization, we support it to be expressed from the council bench, as it is everywhere. In this country, it is a right for people to express themselves as victims, and we support it, and I agree with that to the end, but I also regret that a promise, such as the AKP fascism, the ruling fascism, would not sit anywhere academically or politically, would not be heard. Because I'm going to put aside the debate on fascism, Italian fascism, German fascism, national socialism and so on, but a political party that won the election in nine elections, a power that won these elections, and if the accusation against it is expressed as fascism, then the assumption here is that the Turkish people submit to oppression and vote in fear. However, the Turkish people do not bow down to tyranny in any way. As they say in the Imperial March, the CHP's friends know very well, who's crazy enough to chain me up? They are a people who say, "Woe to me! So it's not fear and pressure, it's a political delegation that he thinks gives his heart and represents him, and it's behind a leader that he's going to have to see to the end, that he's going to have to see to the end of the CHP's friends. You'll win people's hearts. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Otherwise, when you make up for your own losses with accusations against others, when you try to make amends, you don't get results. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Also, let me mention one thing. The calls in these party buildings are made by court decrees, not by law, but by a court order. In accordance with the law regarding illegal activities...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0153	Yes, thank you, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0341par0154	It's not a search, it's illegal banners coming down.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0156	Here you go, Mr. Oran.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0157	Mr. Bostanci said, "Don't blame me." I want to make that clear.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0158	What charges? He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0159	No, he said I made an accusation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0343par0160	What did he do, compliment you?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0161	No, what words did he tease you with, Mr. Oran? I've heard it all the way, there's no bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0162	I'm not saying it's bullshit, he just called what I said a different accusation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0163	No, sir. What did he say that was different, Mr. Oran? I've listened to the end of the conversation. I don't know if there's any...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0164	My fascism...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0165	Now, Mr. Oran, you know we have no way of talking to each other.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0166	I'll give you an explanation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0167	But that's the way you want it. Do you have any roughhousing? No. You say that, too, that there's no teasing.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0342par0168	But there's a false accusation there. I mean, there's been an unjust accusation called an accusation.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0169	Please, Mr. Oran, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0344par0170	Mr. President, let me make a statement in place for a moment, orator, and let's end this discussion.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0345par0171	Let him do it, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0340par0172	If we're going to make it to the heart of Mr. Oran, go ahead, Mr. Oran, I promise you one minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0346par0176	I, of course, respect the chest, the will of the nation. As a result, I have not brought any charges against the ruling party's election results so far. I'd like to tell Mr. Bostanci that you're doing politics at a political party. Your city buildings are being raided; illegal, illegal searches are being made; your members of your organization in the district organization are being attacked. What is this, not fascism?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0347par0178	It's a court order.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0346par0179	There's no court order.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0348par0181	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0346par0182	No, I don't. Istanbul is the only one. There's no court order. Look, I just told you, there's no court order in Aydın, Isparta, Kopeelli, Sakarya, in many of our districts in Istanbul, there's no search warrant. So you and I, I believe, and I believe that the fellow lawmakers here, when they empathize with their own parties about this, when they think about their own parties, they're not going to be happy about it. That's my accusation. It's called fascism. I mean, with an illegal order to a political party...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0349par0186	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0350par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0349par0188	Please, Mr. Bostanci...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0350par0189	No, I'm going to say that if, as Mr. Oran said...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0349par0190	Mr. Bostanci, we've been here for 11 hours. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0350par0192	If any party has been entered illegally, I will protest to the end. Mr. Oran will show you, and I'll condemn you from here.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0349par0193	Thank you. Halil Aksoy, MP of Ağrı who has asked on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0351par0200	Mr. President, I've spoken to the Governor of Aydın, with a court order...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0349par0201	Please, Congressman, sit down.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0352par0202	How many court orders are there?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0351par0203	He's wrong, Mr. Oran. By court order, Viceroy of Aydın...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0352par0204	We've got different signs, they're taking them all down.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0353par0205	Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0354par0206	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on Article 5 of the 2015 Budget Bill. I salute the General Assembly. Fourteen years ago, on December 19, 2000, there was an unforgettable massacre in Turkey's prisons. Today, hundreds of prisoners, heavy guns, grapefruits, gasses and construction materials, roofs were broken, windows were smashed, and people were slaughtered. The so-called Operation Resuscitation, which was reflected in the media, was actually the result of operations called "Tufan," which killed 28 people. As you can remember, 20 prisons were interfered with simultaneous, over 10,000 security forces. What happened at Bayrampaşa Prison was like a movie scene. The images of those who burned to death and the wounded are still alive in their memories. Justice Minister Hikmet Sami Türk explains that he found the massacre, where 28 people lost their lives, 237 people were severely injured and the prison was almost devastated, successful, and he said at the time: "It is unthinkable for the state to stand by while people are being driven to death in person. That's why an intervention in 20 prisons has become inevitable. The purpose of the intervention is to save people's lives. There are no casualties." There are deaths, 28-29 people, 237 people injured, but no casualties. So, what happened when this government turned tens of thousands of security guards and citizens' prisons into battlefields? They went on a hunger strike using the right to protest, which was their right to their most natural rights, putting their bodies to death. They said the F-type prison conditions were heavy; they were right, and F-type prisons really are against human rights. Interestingly, those who defended F-type prisons on that day later said and complained that after entering F-type prison, these prisons were very bad prisons. Democracy, human rights, law, we're gonna need everybody one day. The prisons you built yesterday could be a place for you tomorrow. In history, all dictators and dictatorial governments have answered to the public. The owners of this practice will also answer. Prisons became concentration camps during this period, lawmakers. In these prisons, where all sorts of human rights and needs are being seized, people now live under very difficult conditions. This is the period when human rights violations occur most in prisons. During this period of power, the prison presence doubled, and for the first time, the number of prisoners exceeded the number of prisoners. Thousands of children were harassed, raped, and subjected to all kinds of physical attacks during this period, for the same reasons that they threw stones. Again, at no time were transfers and transfers to prisons been converted into exiles, as in this period. Hundreds of prisoners were driven across the country overnight, and their families were also punished, just as there was no reasonable reason to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the most important and most urgent problem today in prisons is, of course, the condition of sick prisoners and prisoners. Look, we've been talking about this platform and other platforms over and over again. The situation of the patients and prisoners who are currently in critical condition should not be put into politics at all, nor should the matter of negotiation be held. Currently, around 600 patients are under arrest, 166 of which are heavy, according to recent data in Turkey. Most of them don't have the means to survive alone in prison. Unfortunately, the Coroner's Office rejects the request for evacuation with full political opinions. Coroner's Office has to be put on probation. The rare verdicts of the republic's prosecutors are ineffective. On the grounds of that, they nullify these decisions. These enormous powers of forensic medicine must be strictly limited and this monopoly must be broken. An arrangement for the approval of the Forensic Medical Association should be removed by the health boards of full-fledged hospitals appointed by the Ministry of Justice. Dear lawmakers, when we talk about prisons, I'd like to draw your attention to another prison, Iran, where there are severe human rights violations. Urmiye Prison is a Kurdish town in Rimiye, Rizaiye, Iran. Yes, 29 Kurdish prisoners in this prison have been on hunger strike for 30 days. Against the totalitarian and oppressive practices of the Iranian regime, these friends have invested their bodies in death. Some of them are getting worse. The Iranian state has become one of the most applied countries in the world to the death penalty. In implementing the death penalty, the regime uses the death penalty as a means of revenge and punishment, especially for those who oppose its politics and fight for its rights. Turkey can't remain silent about these inhuman practices that are brewing near it. The Kurds, as we call them, are being executed for their thoughts. Besides, it's not just the Kurds, it's the Belucis and the Azerbaijans. However, the government's lack of reaction, its silence, can also cause emotional disconnects. It is not possible to understand why the government, which is not insensitive to Egypt, Syria, Palestine, remained silent about the massacre of Kurds in Iran. What a contradiction, it seems. If Israel had applied the same death penalty to the Palestinians, there would have been hell to pay. "Fuck Israel!" By saying slogans, some of the MPs would go out on the stand in their Palestinian scarves and perform. Now, look, here's a picture. Dear lawmakers, this picture is the execution of a lover of freedom who was executed by the Iranian Mollah regime. Take good care of this painting. In a few seconds, this person will be pulled and killed by the rope around his neck. But as he goes to die, he greets freedom and life with laughter and waving. Here you go. Now, I would like to welcome from here the 29 revolutionaries who have not succumbed to persecution by putting their bodies to death in Urmiye Prison for 30 days and have continued the resistance to the hunger strike. And I support their righteous and honorable struggle. Honourable MPs, like Zilan in Turkey's history, such as my lesson, Maras, Çorum, Sivas, Roboski, have been known to have massacres, such as Paris. Between December 19th and 26th, a massacre took place in Maraş, and more than 100 people were massacred. Unfortunately, the Maraş massacre is one of the unexplained events of social history. Although 36 years have passed since the massacre, those who were tried in any way have not faced a serious punishment, and many of them have been justified. September 12th judgment almost cleared them. As a result of the attacks, according to official data, 105 people were killed, 176 were injured, 210 houses, 70 businesses were destroyed. As a result of the slaughter, forced migration, and the abandonment of people's homes, today's situation has also been banned from a rally that these people want to present in terms of their minimum democratic duties and to protect their rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no fundamental difference between the understanding that banned that rally and the understanding that killed people at that time. Therefore, the concerned governor must be dismissed immediately. Of course, there are other important events happening in Turkey. Roboski has not been enlightened, Paris has not been enlightened, many events have remained untraceable. A 17-year-old boy was recently murdered. Then yesterday, Kadir Lightk was murdered. Again, a man who crossed over to the other side and came to the other side to do border trading was shot in the back of the neck of the head, like those in Roboski. It's impossible not to be sensitive to these things.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0355par0226	Mr. Aksoy, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0354par0227	Therefore, this sensitivity must be in our Parliament, and the interests must be carried out. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0355par0230	Ismet Su is the MP who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Su.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0356par0233	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 5 of the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I salute you. In my speech, I'd like to first pass on some information about my constituency, the province of Bursa. The scholarship is one of the truly rare cities of our country, each of which is beautiful. With its history, its culture, as of today's location, is a city that actually produces Bursa. As a province which contributes to national revenues through the production of scholarships, it fulfills its duties with the power of growing production, adding positive values to our country every day. Our country's contribution to future goals is important. The license plate of our scholarship is 16. I'd like to tell you about Bursa, before I do some vague calculations, over 16 digits. Precious lawmakers increased exports by more than three stories, except for exporters outside the company's headquarters, when they increased foreign trade volume from 2002-2013 to 4 times. The scholarship also increased its tax revenues by more than four floors. What did we do to him during this period? We invested 1.2 billion euros in education in Bursa. Preschool education has been increased from 10 per cent to 60 per cent. To remember the past, I'd like to remind you that the textbooks have been distributed for free. The budget earmarked about $600m for health care. Youths with our nation's future have increased their ability to play sports. The number of sports facilities and sports clubs has been doubled. In communications and transport investments, Bursa reached its peak. The divided road length has been increased from 200 kilometers to 432 kilometers. Besides, the roads have been safer. When the Istanbul-Bursa-Izmir highway is completed, it will become a center of attraction and the name of transportation will be changed here. A key move made by our AK PARTI, which is not content with the exemplary work on the roads of land, is the Top Fast Iron Road Line, which will only take two hours and fifteen minutes to get from Bursa to Ankara when the line is completed. We have contributed to their problems by connecting with all our fellow citizens who need help and investments approaching $1 billion in family and social policies. As an inconvenience to the opposition, we have increased the amount of welfare by more than 20 floors. Dear lawmakers, with its mountain plain, we have made sure that the fertile land of our land, like the green one, is watered by dams and ponds. Our ambitious producer of fruit and vegetables, Bursa, will also have a say in the production of honey through the forests of honey that have been formed. In 2013, 100,000 chestnut trees were planted, which announced its name by the manufacture of chestnuts. In exchange for other people's so-called tree love, we contributed to the forest wealth by planting 42 million saplings from 2002 to 2013. In the province of Bursa, which has an important stake in Turkey's development, investments have been made in social security as well as in the development of industry and removing obstacles in front of it. After all, the total of investments in Bursa (Bursa) since 2002 have reached 16 billion euros in humbleness. So the number 16 wasn't just the license plate of Bursa. In the 2002 parliamentary elections, we did 12 in 16, 10 in 16 in 2007, 11 in 18 in 2011, and hopefully at least 16 in 18 in 2015.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0357par0245	You can't imagine!
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0356par0246	If we're going to talk about numbers, we're going to have to talk about it this way, dear MPs. Twelve years have passed since the nation handed over the trust to its owners on November 3, 2002.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0357par0247	Tell me about the TOKI buildings, what they've done to Bursa.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0356par0248	Over the past 12 years, we've had the opportunity to serve our country and our nation, thanks to the authority of the nation and its uninterrupted support. Therefore, we cannot give thanks to our Lord. We accept the fact that our opponents are involved in a political organization as an essential element of democracy, but other than that, they are hiding in the Alamut Castles of modern times, and they are trying to dilute our national and spiritual values by following Hasan Sabbah, and there are still those who are willing to act with them after their true faces have been revealed. Now, our nation has seen what they've done, trying to hide themselves so far, we've all seen it. He says there will be no stopping the progress of our country and our nation, and I wish that our budget for 2015 would be good for our nation and our country, and I give my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0358par0251	Iron Steel MP, asking for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0359par0253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you on behalf of myself and my party. I've taken a pledge on the fifth amendment to the current 2015 budget, but I'm going to share more thoughts on what should be understood from democracy and democracy. Mr. President, all along history, no thought has ever been prevented by any sovereign force, nor can it be prevented. If history is to keep changing, no force, no man, no tyrant, no king, no emperor, can stop the momentum of change. It is also necessary to be human, historical, social beings, to help the timed thought walk on democratic and legitimate ground in its own place. But unfortunately, my blind eye is as stubborn as its finger, and our approaches, which mean nothing more than a repeat of the presence, are wasting time and loss of effort. Even though we call it a sin, we don't see the loss of both labor and resources and time. Mr. President, we have earned the right to be ruled in Turkey by the Constitution of the 5 military dictators for 32 years. We are trying to govern this community, the dynamics of society, through the laws that feed on this Constitution, which are shaped by the spirit of this Constitution. We judge that you should not look at yourself as being old and sick from the Constitution of the 5 fascist generals -- surely this judgment will be timed out -- but we are not dealing with the mentality, with the Constitution, with its laws. It's a paradox, it's an irony, it's a contradiction. Either we really enjoy being led by coups, we don't want to deal with it, or we're really conflicting with what we think about it. Mr. President, we may have been holding the world championship for thirty-two years; we may have played the 1st place between 10 per cent election dams and 208 states. But that doesn't get us into advanced democracy, that doesn't get us into democratic law, and that's not enough to get us there. With the election, through the Political Parties Act, we may think that we are doing our duty because of being elected by the two lips of our presidents, but because we are democratic and not participating in it, we are experiencing problems, problems. Treasure assistance: The Peoples' Democratic Party, which constitutes 35 of 550 MPs in this parliament, is not receiving help from the treasure. The three political parties have the right to help us with the rights given by the Constitution and related laws, while no one can claim that we have entered a fair and equitable election. A Democratic Party of Peoples, which has been blocked by organisations and political activities, which have not received a penny from the treasury, cannot be said to have been fought under equal conditions by political parties that carry the quadrillions. So, really, if we want to do permanent work in this country, we need to approach a point where we believe in legal, democratic understanding, the rule of mind. A country where you can't get rid of the 10% election dam, where you can't get rid of different ideas, identities, the right to represent yourself, and the path isn't opened, can't be democratic. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, there is therefore no escape, whether you confine yourself to iron cages, whether you are afraid of thought, cowering and afraid of the synergy of different thoughts, even if a thought cannot be prevented by the oppressors in due course, even if you trap yourself behind the walls of the castle, there is no escape. We're either gonna change or we're gonna change. The only thing that hasn't changed is change itself. To resist change is to reverse history. It's not progressive, but it's feeding on the rest of the status quo, which means it's not doing anyone any good, and I'm giving them respect.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0360par0262	Yes, thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0361par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much money have you been given from the 2014 budget as Minister of Finance, under the terms of funding, subsidiary funds, boosting investments and paying for natural disaster costs? Can you explain that because that's what it's about? Secondly, I repeat: Ankara Metropolitan City Service Buildings, which are built under the name Prime Minister's Service Buildings, is worth more than 78 million euros per square meter for the current 97 000 square metres of closed space, but you have explained a figure of 1.37 billion euros. Where's the difference between 20 floors? What numbers are correct? And the third question is, have you and the Minister of Agriculture been able to resolve this dispute between you and the Minister of Agriculture? Which one of you tells the truth about agriculture, food, water products, fishing technology engineering and vets?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0362par0269	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0363par0270	He just told me about the investments for the AKP Bursa MP, Bursa. That's great. I wish AKP listened to this, too, but I think they should have questioned themselves as to why we're here. Now, Mr. Secretary, what's the amount of investment that was earmarked from the central investment budget to the province of Alexei in 2015? What is the ranking of Ezekiel in 81 provinces? Again, how long has it been since the last month, perhaps December, when the tax in the province of Kopeeli came due in 2014? What's the collection rate? How many percent of the tax paid by the Alexandrians have returned to them, to the province of Alexandria, as public investments? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0364par0275	Thank you. Mr. Ayhan...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0365par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I repeat my question. Did you allocate funds to the White Palace in 2014, Mr. Secretary, from the grants and the acceleration of investments? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0366par0280	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0367par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, can't you really do anything about big public projects in the budget for imported products? You just pointed that out, and I'm curious. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0368par0284	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0369par0285	Thank you, guys. There was a question asked in the previous session about the reserves, and I told you I'd give it to you if it came to me. The total reserves -- including exchange, gold -- are 21.7 per cent in 2002, 33.7 per cent at the end of 2013, 33.2 per cent at the second quarter in 2014, and 170.9 per cent in 2002, 101.3 per cent in 2013, 102.2% in the second quarter in 2014. So the total reserves have improved by a total amount of foreign debt, but there is a rate of decline in short-term debt. This means that in particular, in terms of the financing of the trade, the numbers that our banks are entering into are a short-term debt process -- in fact, because I'm a bit of a survivor -- but a large part of the real sector's debt is mid-term, long-term. Of course, it's useful for us to save some reserves, but I'll point out that the reserve in the wavy wooing system alone isn't enough. Here's the best example of the country in the north; it had a reserve of about half a trillion dollars not long ago, but since it didn't have a waved courtship system, there was a new transition -- as you can see, there was a lot of turmoil in the market. So, the high reserve alone doesn't solve the problem, the important thing is that macropoliticas have a healthy structure in general, the foundations are solid. Again, there's one question I said I'd answer if it came before me, which is that a friend of ours said: His property was given at the time in Tatvan, with the decision to use it in municipal services in Tatvan, when he was former tobacco, tobacco products, salt and alcohol companies, and privatisation practices 4046. However, on the land -- which, of course, was given for public service -- given to the municipality for public service -- there was, unfortunately, a shopping centre in some way, with the city's policy, and therefore, due to the use of it against its purpose as Finance, we got it back by SEC resolution 5/2/2014. So, it's very clear here that we're getting it back. Right now, I'll tell you this: Tatvan also won the AK PARTY in 2014. Despite that, we didn't condone it, and we issued a CSU order to take this place back. Just so you know. Now, about those questions. In the 2014 budget, they put it in front of me because it contains numbers: now, staff costs allowance 725, reserve funding 1 billion 199, natural disasters 95, absorption of investments 1 billion 58. Now, you've asked for an account of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, I have no information. If you turn him over to City Hall, maybe they'll help you. At the position with the Minister of Agriculture... dear friends, didn't give us the numbers... but I know very well that in the last few years, more than any other time, the TARGEL has probably found 10,000 in terms of the number of employees we've given. You'll appreciate that a lot of ministries have demands at additional personnel points. But, recently, when you look at the last few years, we've given 100-130,000 employees to the public, but in the coming years, we're going to cut that down. We're not going to employ that much public staff after this, because the first is, we need to go according to a norm -- as we're supposed to -- it's not very high; and the second is, of course, the share of staff costs in the budget is now up to 30 percent. We've got rules for the municipalities. We tell the municipalities that your personal costs cannot exceed 30 per cent. The central government has reached a point of over 30 per cent. You've asked me specific numbers about the husband, he's not in front of me right now, but if he does, we'll be happy to share it with you. Let me just say that because of the existence of TUPRASH, and because TUPRAS is paying the tax on fuel that he sold all over Turkey, there's nothing as natural as the high tax revenues there. But, consumption Batman...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0370par0293	Other factories pay in Istanbul, Mr. Secretary. Pirelli, Goodyear, Brisa are paying in Istanbul, don't give him an example.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0369par0294	Let me tell you this: In Gaziantep, if you consume gasoline, and in Sivas, you consume gasoline, those taxes are paid through TEPRAS. Therefore, your taxes are high... but let us also know, friends, that all four sides of Turkey have different needs, different possibilities. I mean, we're going to give him the strongest support of course, all kinds of infrastructure...
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0370par0295	What's the number, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0369par0296	The numbers will come, I'll share them when they come.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0370par0297	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0369par0298	But, all of a sudden, you're asking a specific question.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0370par0299	But that logic, that logic, is a false logic.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0369par0300	As for Mr. Ayhan's question, now, if a public building is being built, it's an investment. So either the relevant ministry, the administration's budget has been put into the budget -- which is probably in 2014, I don't know the details -- or if there's no money, there's a transfer of investments from the acceleration fund, but I don't know anything about it. Don't you follow the products imported in public projects? Dear friends, details of what type of inputs will be used in public projects, account, records, relevant administrations, of course, and if necessary, the Court will examine them in every detail. But, as a Finance Minister, since my knowledge of those details doesn't mean much to the budget management or to the public administration, I'll ask our head of budget if there are any of those data or not. But let me make this clear: there are necessary studies in the final account, in the process of auditing the Court, on every subject you ask about here. In one frame, already relevant administrations are coming here, and you could have raised these questions to all of those administrations, probably directed them. I've answered pretty much all the questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-19sit07spe0371par0304	Yes, thank you for these broad answers, Mr. Secretary. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Saturday (December 20, 2014) to vote on the unvoted clauses of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill. I'm closing the merger for the meeting at 00.
