tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2013 Central Management Computation Bill. Under the schedule, we'll be doing the fifth round of interviews today. The fifth round includes the Ministry of Interior, Security Directorate, the General Directorate of the Police, the General Command of the Police, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, the Coast Guard Command, Migration Administration General Directorate, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, the budget and final accounts of the State Theatres General Directorate and Turkish Writers' Office. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, as it is known, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. In the fifth round, I read the names of the members of the group and its individuals: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group: Mehmet Erdoğan, Muğla MP; Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP; Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP; Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP; Bahattin Şekk MP. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group: Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP; Celal Dinçer, İstanbul MP; Ahmet Toptaş, Afyonkarahisar MP; Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP; Rahmi Küreli, İzmir MP; Sena Kaleli, Bursa MP; Yıdiray Sapan, Antalya MP; Tolga Çandar, Muğla MP; Sedef Küç, İstanbul MP. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group: Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP; Nazmi Gür, Van MP; Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP; Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group: Faruk Iş, Mush MP; Sermin Balık, Alazığ MP; Oğuz Kışsal, Kırıkkale MP; Mehmet Metiner, Adıyaman MP; Salih Kaş, Eskişehir MP; Mehmet Altay, Uçakcı, Konya MP; Mustafa Kabakhım Akdağ, Mardin MP; Ahmet Salih Dal, Kilis MP; Ali Kuru, Muğla MP; Genghis Yavilioğlu, Erzurum MP; Ismet Uçma, İstanbul MP; Gülşen Orhan, Van Yıldırım MP; Mustafa Kabakcıcı, İstanbul MP; Mustafa Akdurrahim Akdağ, Mardin MP; Ahmet Salih Dal, MP. On behalf of his subjects: Lehinınde Avek Dedegil, İstanbul MP; on behalf of Pervin Buldan, İğdır MP. Now, Mehmet Erdogan is the first speaker to speak for the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0002par0054	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Coast Guard Command of the Bill of Budgets of 2015. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our esteemed citizens who are watching over us on their television. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Interior is a ministry with very long-standing traditions that have indeed taken on important tasks regarding the peace and security of society. In this regard, all Interior Ministry employees who will carry out these heavy tasks must be subject to the duties of the police, the Police, the gendarmes, the Coast Guard, and the executives of the estate, social and economic rights, but the officers working at the Ministry of the Interior work for less than those working in other ministries, and the promises to our police are not kept. Our specialists, however, work without job security. Before AKP rulings, managers of property, who were always paid more than judges, were made to pay the same salary as a judge who was victimised during the AKP ruling period, under the latest arrangement to manage a first-class property. On this occasion, it must be brought to a judge point where the salaries of property managers are at least a precedent. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my statement, I'd like to bring your attention to a current matter. In his statement to some media organs yesterday, the state will not listen unless a citizen commits a crime and commits a crime. I can't say what's out of state, but that's not going to happen in the state anymore. Now, for once, in order to believe these explanations, you must never know the laws that are in effect. It is possible to listen to everyone's phone and track all contact information, according to Article 7 of the Law on Police Duty and Equality, and Article 6 of the National Intelligence Service Act. It is also the duty of the government, especially the Minister of the Interior, not ours to prevent foreign wiretaps in our country. Again, it is also a case where many people and state officials from abroad are heard. We have all seen this talk of listening growing throughout the AKP's power, and a number of information obtained as a result of illegal listening has been leaked to the public, exposing people's private lives. Therefore, no statement from Mr. Minister and AKP officials on this matter will be able to convince anyone, especially us. What the AKP did had nothing to do with each other. To make such a statement, either you must not know the legislation at all or you must act to deceive the public. Dear lawmakers, today has been three hundred and sixty-three days, two days later the anniversary of the largest corruption operation in the history of the Republic. A year has passed since Iranian footmen were driven from place to place by judges, prosecutors, police officers, while the minister's children were laundering their homes with cash registers. On the anniversary of this, there was another revenge operation yesterday. There has been a coup to the law with the court packages and the internal security package on the agenda, and new ones are being added to this legal coup. The AKP, which has struck other newspapers and journalists in the past years, has made many of them allies, and now we will send you to prison, as we have done before, to today's opposition press organs, to the authors who have kept the topic of December 17th-25th on the agenda. God knows when you're going out. He's doing operations. With these operations, he tries to hide his corruption and bribery operations from the public, from the public, and to prevent the public from receiving information. This ban is already in AKP's possession to prevent public information. They've taken it so far that the truth is being smuggled from our nation and from the public by ban on the December 17th and 25th process, even regarding the Parliamentary Investigation Commission established within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I condemn such operations against freedom of the press. During AKP rule, the number of arrested and convicted journalists has always increased, and it seems that after this, all journalists who say "I do not pledge allegiance to AKP" will continue to be arrested in turn. At the coming point, the AKP is trying to clear itself of all the corruption, all the wrongs, all the negative actions they've been doing together, by condemning the construction of the congregation, which it has been conducting with a perception operation for 12 years. In fact, the parallel construction of President Erdoğan, which we were amazed to follow a few days ago, was even involved in the unsolved killings. After these statements, I looked at it, and since 2002, everyone, except one person who has been the Ministry of Interior in AKP governments, is still effective within the AKP, in the authorities. Two people who served as Undersecretary of the Interior at this time are retired, but the others are still active. At this time, one of the police headquarters is retired, but the others are still on active duty, and now you're going to charge the people that they've appointed as perpetrators with unknowns, coups, Hashishism, and you're going to eliminate them with your operations, with assignments; what diet, what cabbage pickles? The ones who appointed them are in place. Whatever you do, the bill for all the wrongs done during your rule belongs to the AKP (AKP), you will no longer be able to forget your perceived operations of 17-25 December corruption and bribery operations, your illegal palaces, the planes, the boats, the floors, and the planes you use for your reign. Whether you want to or not, AKP authorities will be replaced by these facts in memory and history. Dear lawmakers, I say it will take its place in history because the end of this period has appeared. Where the politician ends is the day he can't go out on the street. Yeah, well, when you reset the money, those who reset their reputations don't come out in public. Neither the President nor the Prime Minister nor other AKP officials will be able to enter the streets without a protection army. Although there are many examples of this, one of the most obvious examples is the visit by Mr. President to our province of Bayburt on 12 October 2014. One of the most peaceful cities in Turkey, Bayburtt. A number of police have been dispatched from Malatya, Sivas, Kayseri, and other cities in thousands. Three of them were martyrs in the accident on their way back to their post. On this occasion, I ask the great God for mercy on them and all our martyrs. Dear lawmakers, the AKP is seeking new powers from parliament with its internal security package. Mr. Secretary and AKP officials, what authority have you used to fight terrorism for the past 12 years and in the matter of public order, and why are you asking for new powers from here? Or with these new powers, will you digest NGOs who don't like government policies? With those powers you've taken, you're going to liquidate the law that you've declared a parallelist and build the police department? With these powers, will you also turn the gendarme into a gendarme in the long term? Mr. Secretary, I'd like to remind you that the Police College and Police Academy are your department's most important sources in raising police chiefs. If you can't protect even these basic institutions of your own against some of the structures, if you can't keep up with them, how, for God's sake, will you ensure the peace and security of this country? When the AKP came to power, there were 57,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons, which today exceeded 152,000. This statistic shows very clearly that during the AKP's rule, the Ministry of Interior has shown weakness for prevention of crime. It's important to get authorization, but it's more important to use it in the right time and time. Dear lawmakers, as a result of the wrong and unpredictable foreign policies of AKP power, our country is virtually trapped in a ring of fire. Before, there were mines in our Syrian border and some other border regions, but today all over Turkey has been mined. Yes, a small part of the Syrians who enter our country stay in camps, but a large number of them are scattered throughout our country, trying to fight for their own lives, which, unfortunately, is a source of many criminal and criminal organizations. Human traffickers, organ mafias and drug traffickers are running around in areas where these people live, and increased crime rates, including prostitution, signal social collapse in the coming period. It's frightening to think how dangerous these people will be in the coming days, both themselves and our citizens. Hopefully, they'll be taken care of before long. Of course, it's not just the Syrians. Where we come from, the most important reality is that border security has been lost in our country. Drug traffickers, human traffickers, terrorists, they do their jobs, they do all sorts of border violations. This is a very important threat to the national security of our country. Mr. Secretary, right next to your Ministry, illegal cigarettes are sold in Kızılay, there's no need to go too far for illegal diesel. Since the construction of the coast guard was not enough to control our shores, the boat carrying illegal immigrants in the heart of Istanbul sank, killing dozens of people. Of course, the other important thing I'd like to point out, by the way, is that for the past 30 years, our security forces have served with our members in the fight against terrorism. This story of solutions has been abandoned to the fate of the rangers, left alone, abandoned to the mercy of the PKK-based villains. I regret to inform you that although many of our guards were brutally martyred, the government preferred to remain silent on this matter. In the Minister's budget speech, it is also very meaningful that even a sentence about this issue is not compiled in the Plan Budget Commission. Again, I believe it is necessary to solve their problems and restore their reputation by doing a study on veterans who were injured during the fight against terrorism, but whose disability rate is less than 40 per cent and who have no right to any veterans. Congressmans, as you know, it's a fairy tale of solutions. So much so that the story of this solution has become someone's political influence. As everyone knows today, the PKK can gather more militants, the PKK can build a court, the PKK can collect taxes, the PKK can control identity, and even further, the governors, the trustees appoint. Where we're coming from, there's been talk of setting up a secretariat for the terrorist head. Autonomous and general pardons are widely spoken by the ministers of power. At this point, Mr. Prime Minister stated in a speech two days ago that the so-called solution process must be continued in secret from the press and public opinion after this, that nothing in public can be discussed, that such a solution cannot be produced. I'd like to address Mr. Prime Minister and everyone in the AKP ranks: who are you making these secret bargains on behalf of? What you're talking about here is not the commercial interests of anyone, but the state of the Republic of Turkey, which the Turkish nation is talking about, by giving thousands of martyrs, by paying the price, by paying the price. Mr. Prime Minister, members of the AKP, remember that your votes do not give you the right to place Turkish nation's sovereignty on the negotiating table. While bandits came to the city and slaughtered people in their homeland, the governors cried out to the terrorist in the mountains, our civilian soldiers were brutally martyred by terrorists in the middle of the street, the MIT Undersecretary Imralı Meanwhile, the PKK is able to rehearse a total riot using the Kobani incidents as an excuse. While all this is happening, Prime Minister Turkey is able to talk about the establishment of public order as if we had made it this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is not a good thing. You're mistaken if you think that trying to make your way through the so-called peace process through a draft text prepared by a man who's a major part in human trafficking, an international drug trade, who's an extra in the scenarios of the imperialist forces, who's just about to slaughter the baby in the arson, who's so bloodied that he's the leader of terrorists. Remember, the fire you're going to cause will burn you in the first place, and you'll be the first target of the polarization you've caused. It is not enough that you have polarized the nation because of the solution process, that it is not going to help any of you to make peace enemies of people who love their homeland, who view their country's interests in all kinds of interests, and go into cooperation with terrorist organizations. This country was left to you by our veterans, not by our martyrs, but as a trust. Take care of the trust, and don't forget that being at the same table with those who betrayed the trust will put you in their position. As I end my remarks, Mr. President, I would like to repeat on Wednesday (December 10, 2014) a warning from this bench by the State Gardener: Is there any one among you who has an idea or is able to develop predictions when distances are shorter when distances are in sight? In short, did the honorable lawmakers who were here and who were not present think what would happen if the inevitable encounters of those who said they would not interrupt? I salute your grand delegation again, wishing that the 2015 budget would be a blessing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0003par0074	Thank you. The second speaker, Solomon Nevzat, does not fear. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0078	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your delegation. I present to you on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Police General Directorate, the General Command of the Gendarme Command and Immigration Administration. At the beginning of my words, I wish you the best of the 2015 budget. The institutions I speak of are the keepers of peace and order. However, in our country, where peace and security have been sought by candlelight in recent years, unfortunately, these are the most battered institutions, by the government itself. The AKP has long set security forces on its target as a result of embarrassing negotiations with the PKK, which imposes on all institutions the AKP co-operation, who has wronged the rights and the justiceists. There is no safety and safety of life and property, especially border security. Terrorists are walking around, even having parades. The mothers don't cry, the martyrs don't come. Despite their tongues, our soldier, our police continue to be martyrs, the mother of the nation continues to cry. Anyone who's been associated with a fraction of national honor and dignity is suffering from this situation. The government has released the dogs and bound the stones. Every day, our police, our military, has been undermined by new operations, with incredible slanders. The law enforcement forces are being made servants of power, not of the nation, and for that, the law is being brought under uncompromising circumstances. What the government wants is for the police to get along with the terrorist organization. ▪ The fight against theft, corruption, is forbidden from him even to speak of it. What if he does? If he does, he's either a coupger or a parallel. And the only example of Turkey in the world is that because the power didn't serve its political purpose, because it didn't become AKP, thousands of police changed its location, made it a police thief, made it a police thief, ignored all experience and knowledge, even wanted to shut down police schools. The police are mute when they do their duty as gendarmes. Because of the state discipline and professional discipline they receive, they do not want to be on the side of arguments. They think the government should defend themselves, not that they don't have anything to say. I say to AKP MPs who have insulted the police so much, who have even defamed their education and have even defamed their schools: You can't even go near these sons of a country in terms of knowledge and savings, let alone this arrogant attitude, the contempt, the position of acting as a deputy. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, no government will declare half of the public officials good and the other half hostile. No government can sit by law enforcement at its disposal and slander and slander, but you did it. I wonder how you can still look at these heroic sons after so many words. With operations from December 17th to 25th...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0086	Mr. Korkmaz, please, but this is not the right way to treat the MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0087	I'm asking, sir, I'm not asking.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0088	Sir, in your previous sentence...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0089	Please don't interrupt my speech. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0090	But when it's done to the MPs, when it's done to the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I have to warn them. The Civil Code is here, Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0091	Sir, I'm asking questions, I'm asking questions.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0092	You will criticize the government, you will criticize the minister.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0093	I criticize and ask questions.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0094	That's what you're gonna do, all right.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0095	Please correct my time.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0096	We'll give you a minute, but please don't question the MPs. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0098	No one's investigating. I repeat, I ask a question, how can you look?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0099	Aren't you ashamed? You said...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0100	No, bring it in, please. Let's look at the things.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0005par0101	I'm having it brought in. Here you go. I'll add a minute.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0103	The officers of the agency, who were involved in the operations, were exiled without saying snow, winter or apocalypse. About 50,000 police officers have been replaced. Our police are separated from their children. Experiences of experienced staff have been ignored, crumpled up like napkins and thrown away. Sadly, this genius was not enough to overcome the fear of being tried and convicted. Now he's trying to turn the police force and the gendarme into the party's law enforcement force. The goal is to completely eliminate the results of December 17th-25th investigations and make the police and the gendarmes who need to act objectively, the white police and the white gendarmes, to retire hundreds of police officers, to evacuate the agency. Now he wants to put the gendarme in charge of politics with the Homeland Security Bill he brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In doing so, the security forces have been weakened by terrorism, and the AKP doesn't give a shit. Thieves are the chief crown, and the police are the stepchilds of the nation, who blaspheme in the holy mothers of the nation, who are forbidden businessmen, their comrades in Iranian spies, who are precious but the hero sons of the country. I would like to address my fellow trustees, who have a conscience, if you left them at the mercy of the terrorist organization, they would probably not have done more harm to the police, to the gendarmes. What is this hostility, hatred, anger? Isn't this organization the children of you, of us, who came out of the people's hearts? The right demands and complaints of police personnel have reached the site. The government is still waiting to meet PKK's demands. Police work is at least 12 hours a day, at the mercy of his superior. It's a disgrace called the second mission, it's a chore. The awards and assignments are between the two lips of the executives. The police are being stingy with cars and gas for the mission, while hundreds of billions of authorities are driving cars. Ladies and gentlemen of law enforcement, unfortunately, is an organization that has been constantly promised but has never been given a raise. The police are constantly promised, and the other public officials have a raise. The AKP has repeatedly promised that the police will organise their rights, but they have not kept it, as they have made other promises to the nation. Every time we say "raise improvement," my lord responds to budget opportunities. But you find millions of dollars in money in illegal palaces, private planes, luxury, wonder, and you think about budget discipline in police wage improvements? (MHP applause) The police were like a fist yesterday, one and together, torn apart today thanks to you. Look, my friends, even the shoes and clothes of the police are worn out and worn out, the expression that their wages and reputations have fallen underfoot. Even the law has aged. The Law of the Security Service is in 1937, the Law on Police Affairs and Legal Law 1934, and the Disciplinary Charter of 1937. The AKP has ordered police to commit crimes in social events, patting them on the back and declaring them heroes. Then, after doing his job, he was personally investigated, punished and left alone by the AKP. It seems that the high-profile lawmakers are forbidden to the police in the light of the AKP government. The Homeland Security bill is coming in soon, General Kurula, like a pin-pumped grenade. We're going to do our reviews there, we're going to resist because the AKP isn't in the right place, it's not keeping people in line. The police are like that, but the gendarmes are different, dear friends? Is there another organization in any country in the world, in the mountains, in which they are condemned to live apart from their families, their children, who can't even get a home on permanent appointments, who deserves to be thanked for their sacrifices, but is constantly under investigation? On the basis of Turkey's area, the gendarme's area of responsibility is 90 per cent of our country. The gendarme, who controls 700,000 square kilometers, has unfortunately been left alone in the fight against terrorism. He sat at the negotiating table with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), who was trying to kill his own government and his own life, and who was raiding his outposts. As a result of embarrassing negotiations in Oslo and İmral, the Gendarme has been consciously neutralized and discredited in the field. Their morale and motivation are zero. Our organization, which referred this disloyalty to the Creator and to the common sense of his beloved nation, expects at least something to be done in terms of their rights. We're tired of saying it, and you're not tired of being blind and deaf, I'm afraid. 45 percent of the staff of the gendarmes are veterans. Everyone's time in military schools counts as actual service, but not theirs. They're soldiers, but they can't take advantage of any social facilities, military homes. In the Turkish Armed Forces and, of course, in the gendarmes, civil servants expect attention from our Parliament with their problems turned into gangrene. In the same room, civil servants and military officers who do the same work receive different fees. When it comes to sharing the burdens of the National Defense Department, which has been unfair in sharing Nimeth, the civil servant, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, can suddenly say that he is military personnel. It's common for our civil servants, who are all highly educated, to have equal use of the houses and camps and housing. The backbone of the Turkish Armed Forces, petty officers and our special sergeants, complain that they can't get their problems to the authorities. Our petty officers -- the highest of suicides -- are indeed victims of unresolved suicide issues, low pensions, representations to officers, duty, office, unemployment compensation, and the dissolution of command. Our special sergeants are ignored in the midst of a complete disaster. Like everyone else, they've finally been deprived of their right to retire in uniform. They have no additional indicators, no luxury of being sick, no legislation to protect themselves against arbitrary practices. Lojman's rights are limited to 5 percent, like feeding in front of a bird. They're stepchildren when it comes to army houses and social facilities. From here to the National Movement Party, he can't go beyond Sivas. I have a word with the Minister of National Defence, who has been unaware of drawing the Misakimilliline borders to Sivas: I am aware of our army's system as we parade the Pesmerges from our borders on October 29th, and I am the minister of the military. Officers, petty officers, specialist gendarmes, specialist sergeants and civil servants are asking you all about us: We'll see if you're really the soldier's minister, aren't you? We'll continue to discuss these mountain-like problems on the Homeland Security bill. The government's reputation is possible not with 1,250-bedroom runaway palaces, but with an honest government that doesn't starve its employees and treat them fairly. The AKP, which believes it has given the state credit for billions of dollars of waste investments, has also reset our external reputation and has made our country open to all risks with its wrong foreign policy. Mr. Davutoglu's meaning of zero problems has turned out to be zero. Believe that Syrian policies are wrong, even the AKP MPs say in our talks, but the obsession of Erdogan and Davutoglu with Assad has both set this geography on fire and its exact numbers are unknown, but almost 2 million Syrian fugitives have been the reason to flock to our country. Of course, our door should be open, open to people who are in trouble, and that is the nation's magnanimity. We have no words, but my people, my people's rights, peace, and security should not be at risk. Only 222,000 of the 2 million Syrian fugitives are in the camps, where 1.8 million are unknown, but one thing is certain: nearly 90 percent of them are hungry and exposed without protection. All our cities are occupied by Syrian immigrants, the money spent by Turkey is $5 billion. With this money, don't many problems in the country get solved? Of course it does. So the wrong foreign policies of the AKP (AKP) have made our people suffer, make their rights stable. Crimes have increased in our cities, corruption has been broken; there is no security left in the streets. Even during the day, homes and workplaces have been robbed. It is natural that a desperate man, even a hungry man, will be able to eat and consume his beliefs. Our people are anxious. The migrants who were left on the street with a sense of favor must be controlled and prepared for them by the coming winter conditions. Precious MPs, the AKP in its human-loving disguise, are suddenly cut off and turned its back when it comes to Turks, Turkmen, Uygur Turks. The police, who risked their lives for their country from Uygur, Turkmen, Turkish non-Turkish AKP, we realized that it was a dream to expect something for our gendarme. In the 2015 elections, our nation hopes to find out which nation is the government of the AKP, who knows who are friends and who are enemies, and I salute the great nation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0006par0116	Thank you. The third speaker is Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0004par0118	Mr. President, could you please add one minute to the friend?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0006par0119	I will, sir. Over. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0007par0121	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs on behalf of the National Movement Party Party on behalf of the Council of Public Order and Security budget under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2015. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, I strongly condemn the censorship, pressure, detentions brought to the press for reporting corruption, bribery and theft. Public order may simply be described as the material and legal order of society. The rules of the state's legal body are the rule of the community in the relationship between them and the state of society. In addition to setting these rules, the government also conducts acts that prevent violations of these rules - public order corruption. If, in any way, these rules break public order, the state will capture, judge, and punish these criminals through law enforcement. As it turns out, Turkey is the Grand National Assembly for making laws that determine public order. The protector of public order is the preventive law enforcement. Gendarme, police and other law enforcement agencies operate to prevent corruption of public order. The third leg of public order is the organization that restores and restores order after public order is broken. These are judicial authorities and law enforcement. When this is the case under the Constitution and the law, we can't ask the question: Why is it called the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security called the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security called the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? What does this institution do, by what authority, for public order? He can't make a law on public order because it's the monopoly of the law. He cannot act as a preventer of public order, or a law enforcement officer, because according to the Police Department and the Law of Legacy, this police officer is in charge of the law, the arm's office. The arrest, imprisonment and execution of criminals who have violated public order remains a duty to be punished and executed, which, according to our Constitution, is solely the responsibility of the independent judiciary. There's no logical answer to this question, and there can't be. Law 5952 states that the institution's duty is to develop policy and strategy for fighting terrorism and to coordinate between the relevant institutions and organisations. It tells us in a covert way that a team of almost 1 million trained, adults and men with full human strength, with all kinds of technological equipment, and security institutions, whose primary mission is to combat terrorism and maintain public order, are unable to determine their anti-terrorism strategies, but a team of 100 people, a few intelligencers, and a few academics and officers, can determine the anti-terrorism strategy under the roof of this institution. Even crows laugh at it. He's also going to co-ordinate the Viceroy, the governor, the general general general, the general general general general, the general chief of staff, and the undersecretary of the Prime Minister's National Intelligence Service, the undersecretary of this institution, the undersecretary of Internal Affairs. You have to explain to us how this is going to happen before you start laughing at how it's going to be done. This definition of duty is a cover that the government is trying to paint and polish and sell to us. Because the concept of counterterrorism is essentially within the legitimate algebra and force that the state uses through law enforcement. Other activities that do not include legitimate algebra and legal action are supporting elements that help the arm fight terrorism, not just strategy-making, intelligence, financial, economic, psychological, social, and cultural. Such subsidiaries cannot be burdened with fundamental tasks in fighting terrorism and maintaining public order. Therefore, the job of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is not to fight terrorism. So what is it? It's a negotiation with a terrorist. The practical applications revealed that fact. This institution has never carried out a mission to fight terrorism. This institution is tasked with sitting at the negotiating table with the terrorist, interviewing the baby killer in the Imralı, delivering to the bloody terrorists in Kandil, and drafting legislations to meet separatist demands under the name "Strategy" and laying the groundwork for public perception management. The government is using this institution for dirty, divisive support activities, and it's still going on. It's obvious. Instead of conducting direct negotiation activities with the terrorist he considers politically risky, the government is doing so-called public safety duties to members of this institution. For him, he has brought not one of the senior executives, governors, governors, or law enforcement and military personnel, but one of the national intelligence agencies used as the tongs of the separatist process. The government collects the chestnuts in the fire with the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. Co-ordinating is not among the state's security institutions, but between the Imralı-Kandil-HDP triangle, between the terrorist leader who cannot co-ordinate, and his thugs and political extensions in Kandil, only the government of the Republic of Turkey can co-ordinate, which is enough for us. Therefore, the name of this institution should be not the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, but the Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs and Co-ordination. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] According to our constitution, it is the government's main duty to ensure public order and security in the country's political borders, to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property, to ensure the effective use of freedoms such as political activity, thought in the Constitution, speech, meeting and demonstrations, travel and property. On behalf of the government, this task and responsibility is carried out by the Interior Minister, the governor and the trustees in the country. I mean, the first-degree chief of law and order in the country is the Home Secretary, the governor and the governor appointed by the government. Security forces operate law enforcement under their orders and command. According to the Constitution, this is the legal situation, but is this really the case? I wish I could say yes to that as a former property manager. Unfortunately, today the political boundaries of the Republic of Turkey and the borders of sovereignty do not match. Our political borders extend from Edirne to Hakkari, while the sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey does not reach until Hakkari. The AKP's government, which occupied the government of the Republic of Turkey, has lost the sovereignty of the state in a specific geography of Turkey. The government, which has not been able to ensure the use of the lives, goods and freedoms of its citizens by hand by its governor and its trustees, is calling for help from terrorists called the PKK, the KCK and the HPG. The Prime Minister is begging the terrorist, as if we can't establish public order. It's a total eclipse. The terrorist's job is to break public order and eliminate public security, state authority, and impose his own authority and laws on society. You're waiting for the terrorist to maintain public order. If the terrorist maintains public order in a region of terror and weapons, the state will end there, the liberated areas of the terrorist organization will emerge. Over there, the laws of this House and the state of Turkey, not the terrorist organization, are valid. It's called a declaration of absolute or partial independence in the theory of political science, no matter what you call it. In the region, the organisation now imposes its own laws on society. Courts form trials, collect taxes, recruitment, criminal sanctions against those who disobey. He has declared autonomy and has banned soldiers and police from the streets and is able to cut roads and check IDs. He sets up law enforcement teams and patrols and practices law enforcement at certain points. He's been sentenced to death by firing a convicted ranger on a stake in the middle of the city, and he's been subpoenaed by a court of law against him. He'll be able to take police officers into custody. Now, can you talk about the existence and sovereignty of the state of the Republic of Turkey in such an environment? Unfortunately, no. The government has allowed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to use operational authority over the region. In fact, the PKK called out to the Prime Minister to ensure public order, setting up the basis for the understanding of the current situation by Turkish public opinion. The prime minister often prepares a political, social, and psychological basis that will enable us to adapt to this situation and eventually make it easier for the legal situation to be made legal by a non-state parallel ACK organization and by a terrorist organization. With these statements, the prime minister is conducting a virtually dirty perception operation on the Turkish community. As one of the Imralı-Kandil carriers describes the plan of destruction that the terrorist group leader and the baby killer is the architect, there is autonomy among the steps to take. There is amnesty among the steps. The parallel Prime Minister -- which is fundamentally in the runaway palace -- has never been spoken of before his face was redened and forgiveness was spoken. In a matter where Turkey's fate is being determined, the government is lying to the public. Why? Because the Turkish nation is feared. If the parallel Prime Minister is telling the truth, then Mr. Sırrıyya Kurdal is either cheating on the nation or afraid of the separatist masses he's engaged in representing. Which one do we call lying and cheating? Which one's lying to us? Let it be explained and one of them apologizes to the people. Mr. Commander must go out and express his first statement honestly, without fear of the government, without hesitation. As Mr. Demirtaş stated in the European Parliament in this study, is there a demand for autonomy, whether or not you want to call it the strengthening of domestic governance, which would mean handing over the sovereignty of the state of the Republic of Turkey to local parliaments in the southeast? Are there or are there no amnestys for PKK terrorists? Is the government in agreement on these matters or not? Yeah, it's not in the title, it's in the content or something. Is it like a boy or not? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Of course we know it exists. But even though I do not accept it, the government hides these truths from the nation, so that it may cast them before the wolf, without fear, for it has seen the nation as sheep, and has become a shepherd. But both the Prime Minister and his criminal partner, Imralı and Kandil, are in vain. The Turkish nation is prepared and immune to the dirty operations of your dark mind, which have not had its share of unity and brotherhood. We have seen these devastating dark films lose Crete, Thessaloniki, Bosnia, Kosovo. We heard these stories as they came out of Palestine, Jerusalem, Medina. We lived in Rumeli, Musul, Kerkuk, Ahıska, Crimean, Karabağ, Cyprus. We've always wanted peace, we've even given our uncontested subjects collective rights. But it wasn't enough for them, they were gangbangers, they bled us out. And We said, "Let there be no fighting, and let there be no bloodshed, and we gave them autonomy, and they were not satisfied." They responded to the Turkish nation of Islam with massacres, genocides. They co-operated with the giant and declared independence. And they coveted the land of Asia Minor, and sought to give it to Armenians, to Rums, and to the English to the Italian. We, the noble sons of the Turkish nation, have not forgotten them, we will not forget them. We're not going to replay these bloody and divisive scenarios. Yes, let's make peace at the PKK government negotiating table with a gun to our heads. We won't make peace with the terrorist. Although the government has promised Imralı forgiveness, we will not forgive him or his bloody terrorists. Despite all the temptation and intrigues of the government and its separatist allies, we will not be separated from our Kurdish brothers. We will not sacrifice any of our brothers for division and dissension. We're not giving up on anyone. Even if our mothers cry, we won't give a pebble of country land to a terrorist. (MHP applauses) We will survive to the last drop of our blood, like the lions, at every place, on every floor, on every piece of wood and tree, against the traitors, the separatists, and the collaborators. We, the Turkish nationalists, swear this in the name of God, in the name of the mighty Turkish nation, on our honor, on our honor, and on all our sanctity. Happy to say I'm Turkish. With these ideas, I say we're against the budget, and I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0008par0145	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to present the views of the National Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Economy. I salute the grand jury. I'll say it in the beginning, and despite all my criticism, I wish you a good budget. This budget has no export growth, no competitiveness, no employment, no investment, no incentive, no innovation, no technology production. So, what is it? There's an external trade deficit, there's a current transaction deficit, there's hot money, there's courtship, there's interest. I mean, nothing's changed in AKP's logic. Mr. Secretary, last year on this bench, as I explained the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the budget of the Ministry of Economics, in my last sentence, I said that the government would want to take this position seriously. It's December 14, 2013. The events that took place three days later showed that the government business really wanted to be serious. I'm not talking about criticism, I'm at the same point today, and I'm telling you, the government wants to be serious, not taken lightly. Now, the Central Future Programme and the Central Management Budget Law for 2015 have found that the AKP government's economic policies are incinerating bankruptcy. The AKP's economic and industrial model, based on imports and construction, has collapsed. The industrial excuse, the construction model, the AKP, is starting to freak out, but you can't stop, you're all getting close to construction. International organizations are giving a recession warning, and we started doing it from summer. There's trouble in the economy, unemployment has just been announced. In the third quarter, it was the lowest growth in the last two years, 1.7 percent when you waited for 3 percent. You've grown a little bit bigger and you don't know it, the Institute of Statistics says you're much richer, but we don't calculate it. Annual inflation rose to 9.2 in November, with a current rate of 5.6 per cent in domestic production. We're still one of the first five countries in the world to give the highest rate. Cari's obviously a little regressed, but the smart one can't be happy about it. Cari falls due to open recession, due to a decline in industrial production. Thanks to you, we've become world champions in inflation and business. Our exports are not increasing, even though the rules are rising. All of this doesn't match your predictions. In the end, the outcome of this budget will not be different from the others. The goals of this budget, the macroeconomic targets you set for next year, are already tough. We'll talk about it. Dear lawmakers, there's already been a malfunction in the formation of the Ministry of Economics. It's called the economy, not the macroeconomic balances. Don't raid Hassan's pie! The Ministry of Economics is trapped. Where's Customs? It depends on internal trade. Where in the world is that? It's a job for a man. Now you're adding a little bit, foreign capital and incentive, and he's entitled to it. We're locals, we have laws. We said there's a minister from our hometown, so we're glad. Should we be happy or not? At least, we thought if he answered, the country would be taken care of. Now our countrymen ask: "What happened to our minister?" Or rather: "Our Nihad became minister." True. ▪ Is it the ministry that has just been established? Before that, there was the minister of economics, so he didn't show up. They say, "What happened to that man?" That's what they're asking us. They say he resigned after December 17th-25th. This AKP government, they call it parallel, safe, watch, shoebox, housekeeping with increasing money. Turns out it's a citizen thing. They've been talking about it. Let it go, don't tell it, damn it. The rest of it. Look, I'm saying this without accusing anyone. Now, look...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0010par0159	What happened to our Nihad? You stayed at our Nihat.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0160	We did, as far as you know. Now, what do we have for $1.3 trillion at current prices since the AKP arrived? Our export. We have over $2 trillion in imports. We're 800 billion dollars short during the AKP period, our foreign trade deficit. This is equal to Turkey's one-year income. In your statement to a magazine, you say 800 billion dollars. What's it equal to for a year? It's equal to your national income. Now, since the AKP arrived, the current $350 billion will be calculated at current prices, whether you want real. But what's going on? More or less, Turkey's debt has increased. Now, we continue, from 2002 to 2013, exports increased by 320 per cent, imports increased by 390 per cent; they increased from $15 billion to $65 billion, to 77, and the foreign trade deficit increased from $15 billion to $100 billion. What's going on today a little bit? It's getting smaller. Now, what does Turkey look like out there? Turkey jumped 11 steps a year in the world's take-away league and got over it. This is our statement from the press. Now, look at AKP's government programs, they always write "export" and "import" is hard to write. Look, the 62nd Government Program has 189 pages, 36,129 words. The word "export" is mentioned 20 times, but it passes twice; there is no external trade deficit here, in this expression, in this program. If you don't believe me, you already have one. Look, it's only two times that it's open. It's like the government program for the government of Patagonia. Why don't we write problems here? Now, the citizen is in good condition. Look at those who went from Denizli to organized industry in the morning. The most open place is the pie maker and the doughnut maker, the bagel maker. One of the businessmen told me that if these men eat one bagel in the morning, they eat one bagel in the morning, they eat what we give at noon, and maybe they sleep hungry at night. There are 10,000 Syrians in the sea. They say, "You know, I don't know the numbers, I got them from businessmen." As far as I know, he's got a thousand vacations, and that's where you drop the competition, and that's where it's at. Now, Mr. Secretary, don't be too happy that the current open, foreign trade deficit is falling. Look, growth went downhill, exports went down. You said that the income in the dollar has grown three stories. Since 2008, it has been skating in the middle income pit for six years, and it hasn't been able to get out of that mud. But none of you have been able to fund or try as much as Reza Zarrab has been. (Applause from MHP rows) Why am I saying this? He went out and said to the TV, loud and clear, and he took the Turkish flag behind him, and I dropped the cari deficit 15 per cent. If he didn't drop it, just tell him that's not what I'm saying. Now, growth during the AKP government is reduced from 9 per cent to 3 per cent, while export growth has dropped from 18.5 per cent in 2011 to 5 per cent in 2014. That's your contribution to growing up. Besides, last year, in 2013, exports were negative, four out of a thousand, so it doesn't have a base effect, or even a positive base effect. As of this year's end, you can see a 4-5 per cent growth, an increase in exports. In November, it declined by 6%, and in December, the expectation was negative, and industrial production was narrowed down. Look, you've lowered the head of the exporter. That's what the president of TIM is saying, you started making the exporter play the song. What heart? Don't let your head down. Don't let your heart down. Don't let it be heard that you're crying. Don't worry, don't worry. We've always warned you, but unfortunately, your predecessors are more concerned with interest than exports. As a close friend, I warn you: if interest is counterproductive, bring a law, two lines, and we forbid it. If you can't do that, don't talk about it. Those who were before you were afflicted with hardship.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0011par0171	Is that what the interestrs did?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0172	Who did it? You know it. According to you, it was the parallelists. You say, "Well, don't take the president of the Central Bank out there and beat him in the middle." Speak in the Council of Ministers, replace the President of the Central Bank, it's already time, you can write down the interest you want. Now, something called a cut-and-drill package was recently sold. You've shaken the most important problems of industry and exports into these stale strategies and so-called action plans, another spring. That wasn't enough, you had the Prime Minister announce a press conference that would raise his national income in 2018 to $1 trillion, 300 billion, that's what he didn't know, and you were with him, all of you in a row. However, just a month earlier, on October 8, 2014, the same government announced the Central Future Program. In this programme, you said $971 billion to the goal of national income in 2017. The year 2014 was said to be $810 billion in U.S. dollars. By God, you noticed the mistake, and one of them took it upon himself, and the Prime Minister was saved. Now, Mr. Secretary, your honeymoon period at the Ministry is over. The government's job -- I just told you -- is serious. The government's foreign trade is heavy. Stop wandering around, get some work done. Just recently, you handed over documents from export troops to the Ministry, including the closure of the processing regime. Now, you're trying to get the Ministry to do what NGOs can do. You did the same thing in the TOBB, and you did the same thing in this one. Look, that's not gonna happen. I thought you said you were going to disband. When you put it together, you realize you're stronger, but that power poisons a man, I'll tell you that. Now, in the budget presentation, in the 2015 performance, you once again mentioned the bid for $500 billion in exports. It's written under your picture. The Deputy Minister is behind him, and he also mentioned $500 billion, but he said that he was from the government office, and then he changed the target. He says that the strategy plan of 2013-2017 was set up in the framework of priorities. He's awake, he's a government official. But the current civil servant -- the director -- is wide awake. See, what he says is more interesting: ▪ He says that he wants to achieve the economic goals that are planned for the 100th year of the establishment of the Republic to be achieved, he says, and he doesn't give a number. He's awake, he knows what he's doing. Why am I saying this? Mr. Secretary, I don't want to disparage you by saying any of this. These are government records. When the time comes when you call it 500 billion targets tomorrow, they say that this Minister is not telling the truth or something. What was in that budget bill last year? Mr. Minister Zafer Çağlan, there was a decree that would be done. I showed it here, it's a positive development. I said, three days before December 17th, from this stand, what would you do if there was an emergency - God forbid, God forbid? We need the law to change it again. But God has revealed other things. So, what I said in the beginning, the state business, it's serious. That's what I'm saying. Now, the Minister before you has announced the system for investment incentives. This is the magazine of the Industrial Room in Denizli; this is the picture, the incentive system in Denizli. By God, you have the incentive. I'll show you. The head of the Industrial Chamber in Denizli says he hasn't struck a nail in terms of new investment in the past ten years. I don't know, you're closer, you know.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0012par0178	You know, you know.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0179	Just so we're clear, for the record. Now, this one is. In the same magazine, he does not receive his share of marine investments. If it's a lie, I'm a liar. They say it's true. Now, Denizli has already lost in incentives during the AKP period, and we have that problem. He's a seaman and an appetizer. I mean, the industrialist's got a junkie in his pocket. What am I going to do? What am I supposed to do, invest in this industry, that I'm going to be a disgrace, that I'm going to export, that I'm going to be an investment, that I'm going to be a disgrace? I'll have an apet, apart. Apart was in your era. When the President is Prime Minister, then the AKP Vice President defies him, and the Mayor says I didn't do it. He called me the other day, when I was talking here. How right and wrong we can talk about it again. And I ask the businessman, why don't you invest the junkie money? They're going to the construction site, and that's where we're going. Am I crazy? In national income, industry has fallen, construction has increased, it's a profitable area. From the Maldives, where is the sand being brought, and houses being built in the sea? I think there's a lot going on over there. I've changed the zoning legislation, and I've increased the amount of apartments and so on and so on.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0013par0184	Yeah, get that Denizli into the budget. You're stuck in the sea.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0185	You're uncomfortable with it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0014par0186	Your Honor, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0187	You're uncomfortable with it. He's an enemy of the sea. [[!]] Now, this is a transatlantic matter, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, you're seriously trying to work this out, but it's not just a job that power can do. Let's discuss it here, and if there's any support, we'll stand behind you on the international platforms. If you say we can take it alone, you're wrong, you can't; I'll make it clear. Look, you're not putting the processing permits on the screen yet, you're filming it so people don't see it. Now, correct this $500 billion target of exports, and revisit it. According to your figures, after 2018, what do you have to do for an additional $300 billion per year for exports? You need to increase exports of $50 billion per year, with an average increase of more than 15 percent per year. Let's not be ridiculous, you'll say the same thing abroad, not just you, but us, the Republic of Turkey will be disgraced. So what should we do in harmony when we say these things? Let's get him out of here. Look, our exports are still fasonist. You describe it as a product-oriented, local manufacturer, and you say we're going to achieve the goal of becoming a country that has a consumer-oriented global brand that regulates the market. Nothing in 12 years. Its technological transformation is defined as a structure that is delayed, competing at price, dependent on outside, focusing on capacity growth, and you say we're going to move on to an efficient and efficient structure that has a high added value, making RD and design. Twelve years, no. You never talk about imports. Look, exports have narrowed down. We're behind our competitors in the open to new markets. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Export range shows how many kilometers Turkey exports within the radius has declined. In 2001 it was 3,235 kilometers, and in 2013 it fell to 2,846 kilometers. China is 6,800 kilometers, South Korea is 5,000 and Brazil is 100,000 kilometers. Mr. President, I think my time is up.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0015par0197	Yeah. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0009par0199	I wish you well again. It wasn't enough time, but what should we do with it? Let's try to keep up. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] And I'm gonna say something, and I'm gonna leave, so don't cut off that Tigris power from the nation and give it to Denizli. Make your signature before he makes a decision. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0016par0204	Thank you. The fifth speaker is Bahattin Sugar, Elekt MP. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0017par0207	Mr. President, on behalf of the MHP Group, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget of 2015. I salute the high council of our council. I hereby commemorate the late 83-year-old scientist, political and literary man, Talat Sait Halman, the first Minister of Culture of the Republic of Turkey. My condolences and patience to his grieving family. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, life is a limited period of time spent on mankind in the life of the world. This world, like an entire mill, grinds up their lives. We all live in this world in a time that has been reserved for us, and there's no telling when it's going to end. The migrants are going to collapse, and those who are going to leave are not coming back. No one can take with him his money, his position, his position, his wealth, his power, his power. From history to today, many rulers, kings, leaders, dictators have come and gone. In fact, some of them have no names left, no memories left. When death is a destiny for a man, it is love that is indispensable to be remembered in this life and then in good, true, good works. The most important value in this world is love, and there is hatred in the face of love. Anyone who wants to learn from history and take an example has seen that love makes us all live, and hate kills us all. You can build houses, factories, roads, bridges, airports, large skyscrapers, even palaces, but if there's no love in them, if they don't see the love around them, what good is all this if it's far from love and love? It's love that makes us who we are in this land. This land has been carved with love, brought up with love, and has survived with love. The zeals, the sweat of the spilled forehead, the blood of the martyrs mixed with the ground and the flag are at the root of this love for this country. We are one, we are all one, who never accepts separation and discrimination. Our foundation, our body, our head is one; our faith, our destiny, our history, and our culture are one; our flag, our oppressor, our language, and our state are one, our former and latter. We all bear the responsibility to preserve this integrity against our homeland and against the generations after us. What I'm saying is the voice of the conscience of every person in Turkey who's been looking at what we've been going through lately, who's been thinking, who's questioning, who's trying not to lose common sense. Our country and our nation are wanted to be condemned in the throes of tension. The word, attitude, conduct, and rhetoric that does not suit the spirit of this country has made ignorance the fate of this country. We've had wealth in this country for centuries, that's all of our values. But those who have ethnic complexes, sectarians, territorialists, those who fuel ignorance by the discrimination of faith and ideology have hurt the spirit of this country. It's time to think about it. Members of the ruling party, particularly government officials, should make an honest statement in this picture we come from. If this is done, each community will do its part. With an understanding of constant tensions, dissolution, polarizations, this country is governed, and the situation we come from is pathetic. The grim picture of our country is reflected in art and artists. Our artists are more polarized than ever. Artists are defined by us, or by them. This is happening before the eyes of the people. Because of this polarization, artists have become representatives of corruption, not role models of society. This does not suit our country's savings and gains. The importance of art and the importance of the artist is especially meaningful to the region in which we live. Because the pain, insensitivity, ignorance, control of ignorance, dictators that have never been discussed, absolute kingdoms, unquestioned commandments have become the fate and cycle of Muslim communities living in our region. In societies where art and artist are silenced, pushed back, meaning is lost, devalued, discredited, there is bad taste, insensitivity, and remorse. It's the artists and artists we all know that make you mature and have savings, bring a level of understanding and understanding to what knowledge has earned, enlightening societies, guiding civilizations, coming out of us. In this sense, AKP power, such as Mehmet Ali Alabora or Fazil Say, is your artist, Yavuz Bingöl or Hülya Avsar is my artist. What is to be done by allowing such polarization, such discrimination, such shallowness? According to this understanding, there is such a thing as the good one who comes to my invitation, listens to my speech, visits my palace, praises me, but criticizes me. According to this understanding, different parts of society accuse artists of being traitors and kiss-ass. It's wrong in both understanding and style. Part of the public opinion is angry with artists attending the President's or the Prime Minister's invitation, but on the other hand, the artists of State Theatres in Eskişehir are being investigated as political content because Metropolitan Mayor Yilmaz Buyukerşen, who has always supported culture and art. Everyone must have understanding. Turkey is very nervous. An environment spoken without hearing each other, listening, without understanding, without understanding doesn't suit our country's savings. Even if everyone can't empathize, they must respect people's rights and freedoms. Every opportunity to accuse, to offend, or to threaten Turkey has made Turkey nervous and regressive enough, all of our energies have been wasted, the voice of our intellectuals has been lowered, the climate of fear has been reduced to a dark cloud, our country has been rendered incapable of using its potential and depth, our young people are concerned about the future, and in general, there is a pattern and disorder in the country, and it has to end. A country's development cannot be without art and artistry. Even if it's counterproductive, you shouldn't be afraid of art and artists. An artless, tasteless, heartless, unconscionable society leads itself to disaster as a damaged society. And those who won't allow it are those in authority and responsibility who contribute to the development of art in their country. Otherwise, banned and censored logic will be humiliated by the power of art. If those in power show a non-critic attitude, I did it, I did it. If they say so, they're all responsible in front of history. If the rulers of the state were to cross a wolf in Dicle, what would they say of the injustices, if they were to declare themselves in the office of Omar. When will those in power, who have promised our people justice, when they make the mistake themselves, and in their own approach? If those in power had paid attention to these sensibilities, those in opposition would certainly have taken steps. Yeah, you can't ignore that by pressuring art and artist. You can't punish the artist with tactics of oppression and intimidation, or by setting up unjust appointments in accordance with the law and the book, or by starting a witch hunt. Arts and artists will continue to exist. Artists will invite society to be good, beautiful, sensitive, kind, kind. We're going through a period of vital importance. The development of art reveals the country's potential and energy. True art, cinema, literature, theatre, opera, ballet and music can thrive in a free and autonomous environment. As we have in the world, many art institutions maintain their existence with the support of state and local government. In recent years, art and state relations have been organised by your ministry with a new understanding, drafting a TESAK law. We are on the side of our Ministry in efforts to improve and spread art institutions all over our country. But art can never be put under the command of politics. THE draft of the TUSAK law must not be prepared in secrecy. In the interest of art, the work must be reached in compromise, the view of art environments, NGOs, artists and artistic institutions. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, Turkish tourism improves every year. It's not only important for economic revenue, it's also important for our country's publicity and reputation for the world. Our country, the cradle of many civilizations, is the most precious treasure left to us by empires for centuries, with natural savings and cultural attributes that we feel every moment in our lives. Although the number of tourists coming to our country has increased year after year, there is not a significant increase in the amount of money that tourists leave to Turkey, although the figures in our income change from time to time. Due to tension in the Middle East, 2015 will not be an easy year for the tourism sector. What is happening in our borders is causing tourists to feel uneasy. The recent loss of the rubles in Russia will affect Turkish tourism in terms of revenue this year. It must be considered and taken new steps. Active, productive, realistic, mission and visionary staffs should be brought up, and stationary approaches in the field of tourism should be seen as definitely a determinant to breakthroughs. In our Anatolian province, there are thousands of cultural assets and artifacts left over from civilizations. These cultural heritages are wanted to be smuggled abroad every day. We commend and congratulate our ministry's work on this, on its efforts to bring our historical and cultural assets abroad back to the motherland. We thank everyone in the ministry and other ministries, especially Mr. Secretary. Yes, it is known that the richest writing works in the world are in Turkey. A thorough inventory must be done to protect and transfer our thousands of artifacts into the future. Thousands of books are said to be unregistered in the National Library. We've reminded you of that in the past few years. Work must be done on this matter. Yes, as a result of the concessions made by the PKK's terrorist group, Syria's Ayn Al-Arab region has made a series of incidents and actions in our home. In these cases, the museum, where Diyarbakır was raised by traitors and burned by traitors, the idea, knowledge and political man Ziya Gökalp, who was the architect of the Republic's founding philosophy, whose services will never be forgotten. Other than that, the library, 50 years of archives, and parts of the service of children and disabled were attacked in our district of Siirt. The cultural center was destroyed in Varto County. Our values were looted and burned. When will those who attack children, the disabled, the book, the library, the archives, museums, memories, or, in fact, the lives, the culture, the knowledge, the wisdom, be captured? It is imperative that the government responds to such a relaxed environment in which these traitors can be so hostile that they encourage ignorance. What does it mean to challenge the government and the nation without being allowed to stand trial? Has there been any damage assessment since these events? Is there any way to compensate for this destruction? Yes, as I end my words here, I believe that the foundation and salvation of my own country will be judged by historical and cultural beauty in the cradle of Bilecik Province and districts. I want this matter taken care of. Also, as we all know, in our town of Willow, which is the cradle of the organization and salvation, the Yörük festival is held every year. This is visited by our Prime Minister, President, party presidents and many of our deputies. But in recent years, this place, unfortunately, seems to be a political arena. There should be a countermeasure here, and a study by our Ministry should be done, and I think it's more likely -- there has been -- it's going to prevent an international mix-up here. Building a new cultural centre here will also lead to hosting visitors from around the world. With these thoughts, I wish your ministry well, even though your budget for 2015 was inadequate, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0018par0228	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Ali Serindağ, Gaziantep MP. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0019par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute the General Assembly and our listeners. Members of parliament, the Ministry of the Interior, a serious and radical part of the public administration structure, is a ministry with an important function in society and state life. In accordance with the law of the ministry's duties, I wish success and health to the officers at every level. We also expect that there will be no further delay in improving the rights of personnel, including property managers, law enforcement personnel, and general management services. It is our common expectation that the staff in office perform their duties in full neutrality and in accordance with the requirements of the mission. Of course, the greatest task falls to the government and its top executives and its governors and law enforcement officers. It is of great importance to the country's peace and well-being, not according to conventional political winds and partisan assessments, but to top executives, governors and law enforcement. However, it is with regret that the Constitution, which must be observed today, has been suspended by the President's hand. As recent events and pressure against the press have shown, Turkey is experiencing a period of period of interim regime. The President has taken over the authority of the government. With the president's decree, there are presidents that would mean the shadow cabinet. These will carry out the control function of the government. The Prime Minister and members of the government are silent about this, and they can't say, "Well, what are we going to do?" It is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to oversee the government. The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and I regret to inform you that the MPs are not making a sound either. Unfortunately, the President and the government have no concerns about acting in accordance with the Constitution. All they want is to take Turkey to one man's administration. The draft of the Constitution, which the AKP had proposed, had essentially traces of it. According to the draft, the president would be able to issue a decree on the rule of law whenever he wanted to, and he would not be subject to any control mechanisms that would dissolve the House at any time. It wasn't the presidential system that was foreseen. It was a dictatorial, despotic form of governance. When this proposal was not carried out in the way the Constitution envisioned, today's actual situation was created and the Constitution was suspended. According to previous remarks and practices, the Minister of Interior has taken on an important role in the suspension of the Constitution. Mr. Secretary states that they cannot edit according to the Constitution. The Minister clearly has a problem with the Constitution, the rule of rule of law, the separation of forces, which he sees as a problem. The Constitutions are not unchangeable, of course, but everyone must obey the Constitution, including the Minister, until it is changed according to his method. You've blocked the Constitutional Compromise Commission, and now you're on your way to an arrangement, an arrangement. However, no one can exercise authority that does not take its origin from the Constitution. It is also intended to be used by the Ministry of the Interior and its affiliated units. For this reason, a bill, called an internal security package, was sent to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was never possible to be associated with the understanding of the state of law. The government also confuses the principle that public officials and security forces should be subject to the control of political authority and the politicalisation of bureaucracy and security forces, and it does so on purpose and specifically. Security forces in democratic countries are, of course, under the government's control. However, this does not give the government the authority to use the security forces for politics, politicalization, and the establishment of His Majesty's security forces. The bill envisions this, the interior security package bill, which is currently on the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Every legal arrangement, members of lawmakers, is born of a need, of course. However, the government has been creating new enemies in each period, and based on this so-called motive, it makes arrangements to suppress society. In this period, lawmakers are also wrapped up in parallel construction, referring to the laughing community. At one point, you know, he tied everything to the Sledgehammer and the Ergenekon, the AKP. In this way, the Turkish Armed Forces have done a terrific liquidation process, government. And now, December 17th-25 theft has created a new enemy after corruption operations, the government. The government has now established a new enemy position in the government, where the government has taken orders and instructions from the Deputy Prime Minister's network to meet its leader. The president also blamed the congregation for the unsolved murders; in his speech, he made the impression that he had information and documents. Republican prosecutors should ask the President for information and documents and accept this as a report. Even if the prosecutors of the Republic do not want the necessary information and documents, even if the prosecutors of the republic do not insist on it, even if they do not dare, the President must send information and documents to the republic's prosecutors that he says are in his possession for the sake of the country.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0020par0242	It's about the unsolved murders.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0019par0243	Otherwise, it'll be an unconvincing claim to the congregation as the basis for every illegal arrangement in the country. That doesn't suit the government or the President. The unsolved murders are an important claim. If the President of such an important claim claims to have information and documents and does not make them available to the prosecutors of the Republic, it is a matter that must be focused on for Turkey. It's not something to forgive. If so, the information and the document should be brought to the relevant authorities regarding the unsolved events. Congressmans, in fact, the government does all its fiction on punishing those who don't think, believe, and don't support themselves. The AKP is transforming the state into an AKP state, seeking to structure social life in its own way. Mr. President, who continues to act as the party's leader, is able to say, "Leave people alone, attack, I'm behind you." The Interior Minister wants to view preventive measures in fighting crime as oppressive measures, such as martial law. It also considers the mechanisms to prevent crime, intimidation, intimidation, coercion, coercion, detention. In some counties, the government's lack of insight and false policies have led to restricting people's rights, meetings and demonstrations throughout the country. They create the reasons themselves, and then they want to suppress society on these so-called grounds. The government, who dares not speak out of public order, wants to go on the road to prevent peaceful and nonviolent meetings and demonstrations. He uses the audit of the associations as a means of pressure on the associations. He doesn't go after people who are corrupt by exploiting people's sacred values, but rather, as in the Lighthouse case, he covers them up. With its applications, the government is a serious obstacle to the democracy and freedom of this country. Now everyone has to see it, and after 12 years of doing it, the government has to stop playing the victim and the underdog. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, instead of challenging the government by taking back the power of the state, it says to remember the law, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0021par0250	Thank you. The second speaker is Celal Dinçer, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Dinçer.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0022par0254	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budgets of the Police General Directorate and the General Command for 2015. I salute your high council. I also salute our police and gendarme staff, who are stationed all over our homeland. Both institutions in our country, tasked with maintaining public order, serve day and night in preventing crime and fighting crime. Other scanning citizens want to receive this service in the highest quality and fairest manner, questioning all the services the state has provided them. For this reason, neutrality and the rule of law must be a priority when offering domestic security services. Governments should also fight a modern understanding of democracy, respect for crime and crime and international law, respect for basic rights and freedoms, and maintain a balance between the concept of security and human rights and the understanding that they should respect human dignity and citizens. If the concept of security fails to balance between law and human rights, the images we do not want to see will appear. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, in our country today the concept of public order has been politicalized, and is now seen to be synonymous with power, protecting power, maintaining public order. So the police are trying to maintain public order by protecting political power, and the political power, with its power, chooses to digest all opponents for the continuation of its own power. That's why, as social opposition grows, the pressure of police in our country is increasing day by day. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have to respect the right to criticize, to understand those who criticize themselves in democracies, to understand those who put on a show. If you can't stand criticism, if you're violent because you don't treat people well, you have no right to talk about democracy. Mr. Secretary, during your administration, our law enforcement forces have problems in the way they intervene in meetings and demonstration walks, social events, with disproportionate and arbitrary use of force. It's not just a problem of education, it's a problem of perception, and it's a problem of not being able to identify it correctly, it's a problem of not being able to digest democracy, it's a problem of not showing the will that the police can resist it when the police use disproportionate force. Mr. President, in our country, you wrote "Destan" about the security personnel who were violent. There is a power that praises and rewards them and then drives them to Fizan. There is a great deal of pressure and intimidation operations on all individuals and organisations, particularly the opposition press. For some reason, we have fugitive palace residents who know about these operations before the D.A. does. The country has efforts to create a climate of fear and transform democracy into other regimes. The final example of these efforts is the government's domestic security reform package, which brought to parliament as an excuse to maintain public order after the judicial package. This package contains unconstitutional antidemocratic provisions. This package contains provisions that will bring a despotic government that can be described as ▪ak Fascism. The balance of freedom and security is a package of laws of war against hostile enemies rather than domestic security. In this package, the government divides the judiciary and police by infecting politics, and plans to gain a great deal of power towards the dictatorship by pressuring the gendarme. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, this domestic security reform package is a bombshell that meets all the needs of the operation that will create the white police and white carabinieri. This package is unfortunately presented to the public as a freedom and security package by Mr. Home Secretary of the power that handles perception very well. The minister is right, of course, that package brings great freedoms to those who want to go to the dictatorship. Indeed, there are vast powers which will lead to detention, arrest, and severe punishments for anyone who tries to oppose the security forces, the government, and anyone who goes out on the street without a judge and prosecutor's decision. This package is a package of royal authority that has increased the authority of the Interior Minister and the governors extraordinarily. This package is a package that increases punishments to all protests against power while producing new crimes. It's a package of two times the penalty for a gun, even for the marbles and slingshots played by children. It's a package that brings a secret pardon to the killings of the Travel Actions. With this package passed by law, it will be easier to arrest anyone who has expressed any collective opinion that disturbs the government, who opposes the HESEs or the natural slaughter, who opposes the cutting of the olive tree, so arrest is brought to those who make noise. In short, if this government bill becomes law, the door to what we might call a top-notch police state will be wide open. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, our people don't live like Hülya Avşar, they don't think like Yavuz Bingöl. People are used to living under pressure and fear. People's forests are being looted, olive trees are being cut down, and as if it's not enough, they get beaten up. His citizen can only attend his son's funeral with torn shoes. The worker can't be a member of the labor union; if he joins, if he strikes, he gets fired. Here's the bill asking the public to keep quiet so we don't have to talk about it. Mr. President, while the public is burning in the coal mine in Soma, while Ermenek is drowning at 400 meters below the ground, 12 million minimum wage, 11 million pensioners are not allowed to live humanly, while the officers are not allowed to see inflation because their budget balance is off, while the country is being brought to the partition point of corruption, and the official mouths say, you can't talk about a healthy democracy in the country while corruption is on the rise and the guilty killings are increasing, while the perpetrators are not allowed to be allowed to see all these laws and corruptions, while the citizens are being exposed to a pure democracy in the country. Mr. President, this budget by a government whose belief in democracy and the state of law is not sincere has not improved the rights of the chiefs of the administration, whose duties and responsibilities have been increased every day. He has not once again considered the demands of the 6400 additional indicators they have been waiting for over the years. Internal Affairs has not provided an arrangement for the development of financial, social and working conditions of police and gendarme personnel. The majority of our highly trained police officers have not solved the 3600 additional indicator problems. But with taxes collected from workers, civil servants, pensioners, people trying to feed themselves out of garbage, there's a lot of TOMA and pepper spray planned. Escaped palaces with gold-plated toilets. Fugitive palaces have begun to enjoy themselves. The last word is that the forces of labor and the enemies of the people should never think that what they have done will profit them, and that their children will have a palace. Indeed, those who have committed corruption will have an answer for those who have ignored themselves, and when the ballot box comes, the answer will be placed in their hands. I wish you the best of the 2015 budget, and once again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0023par0268	Thank you. The third speaker is Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0024par0272	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. My respects to the High Council. As I begin with my words, I would like to first share with you my thoughts on two things. Dear friends, tomorrow there is a trial in which millions of young people who are trying to own their living spaces and parks are being brutally attacked, killed, lost their eyes, and wounded by thousands, in every democratic act, in favor of democracy and freedom, peace, brotherhood, and freedom. I must point out that as with all the coups, it will continue to be a symbol of freedom, peace and democracy against all dictators, and all the accusations that have been pressed against it will continue to fight democracy with the feelings of freedom and peace and solidarity in the face of the enemies of democracy. We have faith in that. With these feelings, I salute the Market, I want to reiterate that we are in solidarity with the Market in the struggle for democracy and freedom, and that we are with them to the end. The second point is that I condemn those who speak under the roof of the mighty Assembly and those who do not speak out of violence and hate the words of the republic, the great leader Ataturk, the founder of the Republic, who brought us to this day and brought us to this day. Dear friends, corruption and theft, money laundering, bribes, 700 billion watches, shoeboxes, money safes, have you not been able to reset them yet? On December 17th-25 in the week of reminiscing about corruption, I would like to share with you some of my findings on the December 14th cataclysmic operation in order to cover what has been happening. Dear friends, yesterday, an operation was launched into the Zaman newspaper, which some of you and your President called "the service movement" and some of you "the shy service movement." Editor-in-chief Ekrem Sistuklı and Chairman of the Milky Way Publishing Group Hidayet Karaca have been taken into custody. Remember, after June 2007, an operation under the name Ergenekon had been launched in this country. Turkish Armed Forces generals, officers, intellectuals, journalists, scientists, were detained in the middle of the night. Chief of General Staff İlker Basbug has been arrested as the leader of the terrorist organization. Then, the sledgehammer, the moonbeam, the yellow girl, the spyry, which is what they call a wave wave of operations that collapsed on this country like a nightmare. Now the members of what you refer to as the coup d'état, the members of the ruling community, were jumping together with joy, almost in the mood to ring the bell and play. Some of the police chiefs, some of the prosecutors, some of the judges served here as the club of power. Mr. Erdoğan, the prime minister of the time, has been stripped of the prosecutor's office of this case, and your ministers are cleaning out the intestines of Turkey. They were laughing at him in front of the cameras. Each day, fellow and ally journalists were commenting in television and newspapers with happy and victorious views. In those days, Ekrem Sistuklı, who was taken into custody yesterday, is President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Erdogan. Some people are on the target board. So far, dozens of books have been written about people, lying, slandering, thesis, gossip. We learned from these cases how some journalists met with juntite generals and supported their coup plans. I mean, your partners who accused you of a coup to democracy today were your allies that day. Let's see what you've been saying about Fethullah Gulen, whom you have announced today. Hussain Çelik, the AKP Speaker, said that in the schools of Fethullah Gulen, everyone is working hard, putting their hearts out, people who are bright. Your Minister of Justice, Bekir Bozdağ, is a valuable asset raised by Fethullah Gulen. If you accuse him of the gang, you'll be unfair. He said, "Peace be to Hodja Efendi, who works in Fayda, whose place is above our heads on this blessed journey." He said, "What they have just chewed now is the name of Mr. Fethullah, whom they call Hashhashi. At the Turkish Olympics organised by the Service Movement, Bulent Arinc was crying heavily. Look, what the President said today about what they called the Hashishis: "Glory is longing." The price of longing is too high, the bill is too heavy. We want to go abroad and see those who are longing for the land of this land among us. Again, at the 11th Turkish Olympics, he was speaking poetically, the President, saying, "You people have told us the most beautiful in the most difficult times, like a spring in the desert, like an oasis in the desert, like a drop of water in dry lips, like a drop of mercy in blacked lips, like a drop of poetry." He said to the Hashish, "You have reminded us of beauty." For three weeks there have been two pictures of each other against each other in Turkey. There was a stone on one side, there was a slingshot, there was a molotov cocktail; there was friendship on the other side -- there was peace, there was song, there was poetry. There was conflict on one side, there was friendship, there was peace, and on the other there were Vandals, and on the other there were peace ambassadors wrapped in Turkish. He couldn't stop praising his enemies now. On the date of his speech, he had travel actions, called those who performed for freedom, for democracy, to protect their parks. On that day, he became Hashshashi, whom they praised as the peace ambassadors. What happened to them, dear friends? How does that feel, what kind of judgment is that? Yesterday they were allies against those defending democratic values. What's the matter, December 17th-25th, the humiliation of the operation broke up the partnership. Some of the ruling masters' ills have been poured out. Turkey was really cleaning out its intestines. Yesterday's Minister Hashshashi, who made Turkey a sound flag to the world, had the idea, had the reputation, became the man who struck the government. In the past, partners have made Turkey uninhabitable by their operations together. The ruling owners have admitted that the army was framed. Thousands of generals, scientists, intellectuals, writers, journalists, lawmakers, who were put in prison for years, died or committed suicide. Know that the hands of those who rot in prisons, the hands of those who die, the hands of those who commit suicide are on the sides of every schemer. And when those plots were set up, we always took a stand for democracy and law. We've stood in the face of all illegal practices, pressures. Today we stand by the law, the innocent, and the victim to the full extent of their unjust, unlawful practices. We are not the ones who divide the community into Vandals, peace ambassadors, and when they are not on our side, we are not the ones who call what we call the prophet of peace. And we are not of the others. We don't agree with your ideas, but I can even give you my life so that you can express your thoughts freely. We don't agree with your ideas yesterday, schemer, but we're willing to put our lives on the line so you can express your thoughts freely. Dear friends, the concept of the public order of Turkish law in a country is defined as all the rules and regulations that provide good service for amme in a country, the state's security and security and security and peace and moral integrity in relations between nations. Who's going to follow those rules? It's power. What about those who frame the army, take away the sense of justice, break up the police force, break up the law against the law, turn the police into police, and lead the community through fear-threatening and suppression methods, and allow the terrorist organization to build courts, collect taxes on one side of the country, build a police force? Those who change the 113 clauses of the Public Contraction Act in 30 times and swear to the nation, who pursue the existence of the country, who raise over $326 a month's income of 11.5 million people in the country, who turn this country into a nightmare, will they provide security in this country, democracy, law-killing people? The AKP has ended its political life. The Turkish community needs peace, peace, morality, work, and bread, not AKP. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0025par0303	Thank you. The fourth speaker is Mevlüt Dudu, Hatay MP. Here you go, Mr. Dudu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0026par0307	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Migration is a phenomenon that has existed throughout all periods of human history. With the concept of migration, the movement of a certain population from one region to another comes to mind, but many elements are social, economic, cultural, and psychological. Migrations are considered as internal and external migrations. The internal migration is a human movement that takes place within the borders of a country from one particular region to another. Foreign migration is a human movement from one country to another. For different reasons, individuals travel from their area to another region. This can also be temporary, as it can be intended for permanent settlement. This is called the immunism migration. In this case, at certain times of the year, they are replaced by two or more locations. Seasonal migration groups live in more than one social and cultural structure. In 1927, there were 13 million,648 thousand people in Turkey. At that time, 3 million 305,000 lived in cities, while the village population was 10 million 342,000. So the total population of the village was 75.78 per cent and the ratio of cities was 24 per cent. In 1980, about 42 percent of the population began to live in the city, and today its living rate is up to 80 percent. In Turkey, domestic migration has increased with increased populations in rural areas and improved opportunities for employment in cities due to industrialisation. Thus, economic difficulties are the main factor in internal migration. Our people, who have fallen into cities seeking employment, are struggling with economic, social, and psychological problems, as they experience more intense unemployment. Dear lawmakers, because of the internal migrations in our country, imbalances are occurring in the dissolution of the population. The government's unplanned stance on investments forces people to emigrate. In particular, the main reason for immigration to cities is that there is no agricultural policy in our country. In fact, a policy is thought to be followed so that our people can get away from agriculture. I'm afraid we can even say that there's a policy of corruption in agriculture, not agriculture. It's a pity that livestock and agricultural support have been destroyed over the years. Dear lawmakers, to prevent internal immigration, a national agricultural programme must first be developed and implemented, including improvements in animalism. In rural areas, education and health care must be expanded. The industrial arms of agriculture and animalism must be directed to rural areas, and small industrial branches in rural areas should also be developed. In short, for the bread we eat, the milk we drink, the vegetables, the fruits to be healthier, better quality, and more abundant, the peasant and farmer who are the masters of the nation should be valued. Dear lawmakers, the other issue that has been focused on in recent years is to return from the city to the village. Sustainable living conditions are being created by the facility of the required social and economic infrastructure in the return areas. But that wasn't much of a life-form. In 2014, the support of 53 new projects proposed by governors was passed on to the governorates for $19m. A total of 190m, 15,000 euros has been transferred from the Interior Ministry budget to the provinces under the Return to the Village and Rehab Project. What has been done in these projects so far, and when have the funds been spent? These should be revealed with clarity. Dear lawmakers, of course, the main part of this immigration issue is the exodus. Those who come from foreign countries as asylum seekers or for various reasons are described as exodus. In the beginning of this, as we all know -- our biggest problem right now -- is the problems caused by Syria, especially the refugees who fled from Iraq, the war there. For various reasons, the number of refugees who emigrated to our country from 1995 to 2001 was not more than 30,000. However, today, it is estimated that the number of asylum seekers from Syria alone is more than 2 million, as you all know. On the opening day of the budget, Mr. President, we all remember here the Prime Minister's response when he showed a picture of a Syrian girl in Istanbul. He blamed the administration in Syria for this misery, Prime Minister. Of course, the administration there could be guilty. Wherever he is in the world, he is the killer who attacks innocent people, civilians, and causes them to die, whoever he is, even Bezar Assad, he is the murderer, even if he is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and ultimately, he is responsible for the deaths of the people there who fueled the fire, and caused the deaths of those people with the help of weapons and the various aid of various elements in Syria, the terrorist elements of any kind. [[x]] There is one other issue that should be noted: peace in the country, peace in the world with the AKP government. The word has begun to be applied in reverse, chaos and problems have been created both inside and outside, and there have been provocations in this direction. Especially if they're having problems with our neighbors, they're the ones that put our country in direct danger. It doesn't come back to us as peace to tamper with the internal affairs of other countries. The turmoil there comes back to us as chaos at the border, a danger of war, asylum seekers, economic damage, public strife in the country, and the bottom of the country's economy. By the way, it's a good thing to remind you, valuable lawmakers. In Mosul, our citizens were held hostage for days, and why? To support ISIS? The arrested terrorists and fugitives were traded in violation of international agreements. Truckloads of weapons and ammunition have been seized. Ambulances and supporters of the war were taken and treated in our country. Dear MPs, Turkey is going through a very important period. The countries with our important border neighbors are complicated. For several years, Turkey has been helping opponents pour gasoline on the fire there. There's no telling who came and went through Turkey's southeast border. On the other hand, the PKK is doing every action it can think of by crossing the border and beyond as he wishes. The AKP government, which announced it hosted 1,750,000 Syrians, says it helped 120,000 Turkmen from their home country in Iraq by closing our borders and helping them in their place. The government has turned its back on our Turkmen brothers. And a few days ago, Deputy Prime Minister Numan Survivoric Syrian refugees said there was $4.65 billion in aid for immigrants. That's $200 million or so from international agencies. We're waiting for this $4.65 billion to explain as soon as possible where it's being spent.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0027par0328	Half of them are in the pocket, half of them in the pocket!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0026par0329	I salute you all, the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0028par0331	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0029par0332	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0028par0333	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0029par0334	Even Assad, who supports and helps the elements in Syria, is involved in the confusions there, is a murderer, even if he is Erdogan, he used a statement. As if he was talking about a possibility in terms of verbal engineering, he also identified an insult to the President and insulted him. Second, in view of the rest of his next speech, Turkey, who aided the opposition in Syria, supported the opposition, goes to the fire with fuel, fuel. As the Presidential Court, it would be wise to alert the speaker. I made a promise to underline that.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0030par0337	I'll have them brought in, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0031par0338	Nothing, Mr. President, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0032par0339	There's no mistake in the analogy, Mayor. It's a metaphor.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0033par0340	It's not, it's not.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0032par0341	It's a metaphor.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0034par0342	Yes, fifth speaker, Rahmi Türeli of Love, İzmir MP, please.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0035par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to the Economic Ministry's 2015 budget. I hereby salute your grand delegation and our fellow citizens who are watching us on their television. We're talking about the Ministry of Economy budget here today, but our Ministry of Economy, as we know, is about exports, imports, foreign trade, business deficits, and these issues, so I'd like to limit my speech outside a general macro framework, especially with these issues. Now, valued lawmakers, the current transaction deficit is the biggest problem in Turkey's economy. What's the current account deficit? It's the difference between all the goods and services that a country sells out and from the outside. If you're buying more than you're selling, the country will be short on current transactions. First of all, you have to get this straight. In Turkey, during the AKP period, the current transaction deficit has increased rapidly, it has not decreased, it has increased, I want to stress. Second, you have to finance this current transaction deficit. How could you do that? Foreign direct investments will come or you'll be in debt short-term or long-term. I'm going to go into these issues in a little while, and I'm going to illustrate how Turkey's foreign debt stock has increased. Of course, the increase in these current transaction deficits is the main reason why it creates a serious risk element in the AKP era. An economic policy framework that encourages foreign currency entry by giving high real interest has produced such a result. When there was a foreign exchange entry, the exchange price was low, and as a result, imports became attractive, exploded, and the current transaction deficit increased. This model, followed by the 2001 crisis, was implemented by AKP authorities without changing governments, dear friends. It's a stability program. In some years, when there's a crisis, you can naturally take certain measures related to it, but then when the economy returns to normal, you need to put it in a framework that will solve structural problems. Unfortunately, there is no such application during the AKP period. Of course, let's just say the numbers don't stay in the air: look, between 1991 and 2000, the ten-year period before the AKP period, I'm saying that it has a 1994 crisis in it, and it has a 1999 crisis. There's no shortage of external savings, the current transactions, the economy of Turkey. Turkey's economy has financed a total investment of 22.9 per cent with a total of 23.2 per cent domestic savings, and no current transactions have been compromised. When we get to the AKP period in 2003-2014, the total investments have dropped from 23 per cent to 20 per cent, but domestic savings have dropped more, and I'm telling 15 per cent of the 23 per cent -- and I'm telling the average -- the Turkish economy has yielded 5.4 per cent of the current transactions, and I'm saying it as a part of the national income. Some years, you know, it's reached 10 percent. So what happened now is, why do you perform so badly when we compare it to the times before you? You have to look under it. Now, of course, every time we bring up the current deficit, it's said that energy prices have something to do with it. I thought I'd take a look at it from that point of view. There's a $65 billion account deficit in 2013. I removed energy from the price effect, so if the price of energy had never increased, what would have happened if the level of energy had remained the same as it did in 2002? Again, a $30 billion current account deficit is being issued by the Turkish economy in 2013. I mean, there are other reasons for that. What I've just said is that the wrong policies in Turkey and the increased dependence on export imports are the most important reason. Mr. Secretary, we used to see this, there were numbers of the processing regime, there were questions about it, there were motions in Congress, but we can't find the process regime on your pages any more recently. So we can't see clearly the dependency of production and export imports in Turkey's economy. Also, we need to see it as a sub-industrial, beyond the total. We don't understand why you didn't publish this. All public opinion, academics are waiting for it. On the other hand, let's take the AKP period, of course, in two terms. One, 2003-2007 is a time when liquidity is abundant in the world, world economies are alive; Turkey's economy has grown by 6.9 per cent, with a 4.5 per cent deficit. During the 2008-2014 period, growth rate dropped from 6.9 per cent to 3.3 per cent during the second period, but the current transaction deficit increased from 4.5 per cent to 6.2 per cent. Now, can that happen? When the economy grows, there's a certain account deficit, but when the rate of growth slows down in the economy, there are times of crisis, 2008-2009 -- if the economy's opening again, then there's a serious problem here. So we know that our entrepreneurs, because of the dynamic structure of our exporters, have increased exports in Turkey's economy, but the AKP governments have nothing to do with it. Although the right policies have not been implemented, the right strategy for Turkey's economy is important in exports, although it has not been drawn in the right perspective, but as I said, the AKP governments do not have the right policies, they have the wrong policies. So, how does a current transaction deficit affect people, society? It cheapens imports and the goods produced by other countries from outside invade our markets. In almost every sector today, which sector you look at, from textile to toy, Chinese goods, Far East goods have occupied the Turkish markets, and as a result, Turkey's industrial sector closes down the side industry one by one, lays out workers. These policies are of no use to the people, to the industrialists, to the workers in this society, to the people of this country. This is a policy for people working in foreign countries, for the interests of those countries. To integrate with the world, exports, imports, yes, of course, but we say no to becoming the fason production center of foreign countries, developed countries. There are numbers, there's a sorting of OECD, manufacturing industry, exports, production of one-quarters of its own; it divides the high-tech medium -- upper middle, lower middle and lower. When we look at Turkey, two thirds of the production industry in Turkey, especially in exports, have specialised in the lower and lower sectors in the middle, Mr. Minister. The share of high-tech sectors is 3.5 per cent, 3.5 per cent; in 2002 it was 6.2 per cent, so on the one hand you say the targets, but the targets -- the numbers are in the middle -- are not like you said.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0036par0356	He's just a target for fooling the public!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0035par0357	Of course, we're looking at financing the current account deficit: direct foreign capital is increasing after 2005, but it's not new investment, it's mostly due to the change of hands by existing companies in Turkey; privatisations, bank sales, and a lot of them, more than two-thirds of them came into the service sector, and they didn't come into the manufacturing sector. However, what needs to be done is to make sure that the private sector specialises in sectors in that country, especially in sectors called foreign trade, which will invest, produce, increase employment, increase exports. However, wrong policies have quickly withdrawn AKP from public infrastructure investments, and since the private sector has to fill the gap in this area, there has been a serious loss of blood in our industry. And again, profit transfers are so awesome, they've gone up 10 times. Profit transfer means the profit of foreign direct investments to Turkey. My dear friends, in 2002 it was $400 million, and in 2013 it was $4 billion; that's a great number. So, of course, if foreign capital is to come, Turkey should come to sectors that are in harmony with its industrialisation goals, but other than that, there is no feature for Turkey's economy if a new investment comes to Turkey in areas that don't contribute to the stockpile of capital; the opposite, in all these areas where it comes, it will take out its profit in the service sector. Often, we hear from AKP governments, concerned ministers: "When we arrived, the Federal Reserves of the Central Bank were as big as this, now that they have reached this point. True, the central bank reserves have increased, but the short-term foreign debt of the central bank reserves -- which we call short-term foreign debt (also called a one-year-old loan). In 2002 it was 171 per cent; in 2013 it dropped to 101 per cent; in the third quarter of 2014 it was 101 per cent -- including gold -- its reserves only meet short-term foreign debt. When these debts are paid, they're a year old. There are also debts like, for example, taken three years ago, but now, since it's less than a year late, when we add them, the rate of the central bank's net reserves to meet short-term foreign debt is 79.3%. So, are you going to cover the current deficit with this, with this reserve, or are you going to pay short-term debts with this? These are very serious questions. Foreign debt stock has increased in Turkey, with a very serious, tremendous increase. It was 130 billion dollars in 2002, 402 billion in the second quarter of 2014. When we say that, they say, "Look at his share of the national income." I also looked at his share, and in 2002 it was 56 percent, and in the second quarter of 2014 it fell again under 50 percent. Look, aside from the years of crisis, the increase of foreign debt to national income has not exceeded 50 per cent. It was 56 percent in 2002, but in 2003 it was down to 47, it was the full impact of the crisis; now it's down to 35 percent in 2005, and it's starting to grow again, and it's a very serious problem. 500 billion dollars of export is a dream, a fairy tale. Now, please, don't pronounce these things, there's no reason to look this community in the eye and deceive the community. The share of high-tech sectors will be 15 per cent in 2023. It is not possible. And from that point of view, I'm saying that this budget has nothing new to bring to Turkey's economy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0037par0364	Thank you. The sixth speaker is Sena Kaleli, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0038par0368	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute your grand delegation, honoring Mr. Talat Halman, the former Minister of Culture, whom we lost last week. Dear lawmakers, those who want to design society intervene in all areas of culture, art and life to protect their power. In totalitarian regimes, this intervention becomes pressure, threat, blackmail, censorship, and self-censorship. ▪ Art and culture activities should not contradict our national, spiritual values, and the sensitivities of the nation. • Its rhetoric is the most important prescription of all totalitarian regimes. For example, although Hitler's Germany is not Jewish, it is the exile of the entire world of art, literature and aesthetics; one of them is Professor Bonatz, my late father, who built registered buildings, is the architect of architect Mehmet Gulz. On the other hand, all dictators try to send a message of power and intimidation to their own people and to the world, with physical, spiritual, and lasting works such as buildings, monuments, palaces, in the land they rule, just as in our country. For 12 years, art and artists have also been blessed by the oppressive, censorive, ineffective, digestive policies of AKP governments in every area that contradicts their own perceptions. The event and management of the 11-member boards and art institutions are linked to political power, while the state theatres, the state opera and ballet, are being transferred to TUSAK through the restructuring process, are being tried to sacrifice culture and art to political Ranta. What's going on in TURSAB, Mr. Secretary, when you control art with TUSAK? Is there an inspection? Congressmans, the dynamic of advanced societies is original and free culture and art. Unresolved conservativeism doesn't feed art. To what do you owe your rise and economic miracle? In Germany and all over Europe, the first buildings to be repaired after World War II are theatre and opera buildings. And in our country, unfortunately, we'll now be wrestling in the theater scenes, where we play horse sports! Art memory, such as the Abyssin and the Shina, is sacrificed to a marketable sense of art. The AKP, which has no artists for its own mental patterns, is conducting a perception operation with its market artists, creating a window, trying to legitimize itself. According to Gramsci, the power moment of creating hegemonia is culture, mass communication tools and civil society, according to the Minister. By the way, we've talked about Hitler. If we don't talk about Mussolini, it's worth it. Mussolini says: "We have founded Italy, and now it is time to create new Italians." The AKP says: "We have built New Turkey, and now it is time to create new Turkish people."
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0039par0377	It's not Mussolini, it's Garibaldi.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0038par0378	In this sense, the AKP, which inherited Hitler and Mussolini, has brought the country into a decline in culture. In contrast to pluralistic culture and republican revolutions, national education policies are also the basis for palace language and gender separative understanding. It's not just the language, it's the letter, it's the culture. Speaking of which, Mr. Secretary, what's more important to you? Dear MPs, on the one hand, conservative understanding, cultural code with the choice of modern life without changing, you accuse everyone of being marginal, leftist, terrorist, feminist, traitor, traitor, conniving, not understanding the reactions, being a coupger, when you don't create an alternative culture with the sensitivity of intelligence, science, art, aesthetics, nature, environmental sensibilities, and you can't feed this life. You'll hide social problems from the public. You will not prosecute corruption, you will legitimize it. You will intervene in the mass demonstration, show your strength with death. You'll smuggle the artist out of his country, remove the artifacts from the repertoire. For the sake of energy and construction, you will destroy nature and tourism. Don't listen, don't watch, you'll be monitoring social media accounts. As a reasonable suspect, you'll make everyone a reasonable suspect. You spit in art, you treat statues like idols. When you say you're going to remove custody, you're going to create other guardianships. You're going to rely on your majority, and you're going to change the laws with the power you took from the hegemonic bloc that you created, and you're going to try to cover something with reform, and you're going to run from responsibility. You will continue to use the laws and institutions of coupe to your advantage, always asserting power with victim literature. As you can't get rid of the conflict and the double standard, you're going to do worse than you've criticised, and you're going to bring your hegemony to the height of dictatorship. As you cannot feed the people with culture and art, you will deprive yourself and your followers of the treasures and reserves you claim to be full. You will confuse the Middle East with a panislamist, imperialist and paleontological understanding. You will eliminate the freedom of the press. You will undermine Turkey's reputation with its operations in the morning, and in doing so you will call the order you claimed to be a Democrat and the new Turkey. Your new Turkey is the counterculture revolution, which eliminates the will to live together, which is designed to create ideal citizens for yourself. Your main goal is to create a society of people who don't question, think, lose their souls, who are shaped. Unfortunately, you also betray your faith. Culture, art doesn't have a problem of existence, it has a problem of destruction. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0040par0384	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0041par0385	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0040par0386	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0041par0387	For the record, the example of Hitler and Mussolini expressed in the speaker's speech is well-known to the Republican People's Party from 1936 to 1945, where Recep Peker was fascinated and admired by the Republican newspaper at the time, according to the archives of which day Turkey, for which hours, Hitler and Mussolini, were in the archives. For the record, sir, that's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0040par0388	Thank you, it's on the record.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0042par0389	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0040par0390	Mr. Altay, please. I suppose you'll be putting it on the record. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0042par0391	He didn't listen to the speech of Sena Kaleli. I know, he only heard the words "Hitit" and "Mussolini"
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0043par0392	No, I heard it on TV, that's why I came here.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0042par0393	In those years, the Republican People's Party excluded Turkey from World War II is a remarkable event. No president of the Republican People's Party in those years had anything to do with Hitler, in the sense that Mr. Ünal had accused Mussolini.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0043par0394	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0044par0395	Mr. Ünal, please, it's on the record, over.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0042par0396	Please don't let it divert history.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0044par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0045par0398	Sir, based on the archives...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0042par0399	Look at you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0045par0400	...the opinion of the Secretary General Recep Peker (CHP) is clear on this matter.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit01spe0046par0401	End of story, sir. Thank you. It's 1:30, I'm taking a break from the merger until 2:30, and I'm taking an hour off. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our fifth round of round talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Antalya MP Yıldıray Sapan. Mr. Sapan, here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0047par0007	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, at this very time last year, I had a talk on the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget again, and there I told them about the problems of tourism, the solutions, and I made suggestions for the future of tourism, which is the engine of the Turkish economy. When we look back on that day, I see a lot of things that haven't changed. And I think it's because of Mr. Minister of Tourism, who has nothing to do with tourism. Dear friends, during the AKP, the structural problems of the tourism sector have not been resolved, and tourism has not yet been planned for a master's plan. Our country really needs a master plan immediately. Unfortunately, since there is no plan, those who have the power of the AKP are able to do whatever hotel they want, wherever they want. Sector officials want an end to construction in Aydın, Mugla, Antalya, but unfortunately the existing zoning conditions are being forced to apply the opposite. As a result, unplanned growth brings down prices and forces the industry to compete, my friends. The floods, which had previously only been in urban centers, began to take place in hotels as well. Because of the closing of the creek beds, we are sadly watching hotels flooded with rain, tourists running around in fear. The last example of this happened, remember, in Manavgat-Side. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Ministry of Tourism announced the number of visitors to our country in 2014 as 37.3 million people and the revenues to be made at $34.1 billion. From here, I think we understand how important tourism is. We understand, but the AKP government doesn't support tourism as much as it should, and it doesn't want it. Twenty-two on alcohol sales. After 100, the ban on alcoholic beverages hits the high tax industry, forcing competition, destroying competitiveness, my friends. Another insensitivity: winter-ending facilities and hundreds of thousands of unemployed people left in the middle. When you calculate these things with their families, millions of people are helpless in winter. We've only asked for insurance premiums in winter, but there's nothing from the Ministry. See, this negative attitude of power towards the industry is not limited to this, but has recently reached its climax with the removal of a class in tourism high schools. What is it, sir? Let students not prepare alcoholic beverages in tourism schools. Dear friends, the calibration of your assets isn't enough. Isn't our goal to raise quality people in tourism? Tourism isn't just hotels, it's got services, it's got housekeeping, it's got bars, it's got laundry; they all need qualified staff. Clearly, you do not know that these services are competitive and should be cared for. What was the student supposed to do, prepare sherbet for ISIS?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0048par0015	That's right.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0047par0016	In terms of tourism, this vital error must be returned at once. Dear friends, I'd like to say that 2015 is going to be a good year for the tourism industry that is struggling with structural problems and growing hormonally, but unfortunately it's not. Because, on top of the classicized problems that have caused the sector a great deal of trouble, other challenges have been added from the AKP's foreign policy and conjunctural. The recent pressing, antidemocratic practices of the AKP have negatively affected tourism, which is already a fragile sector, as well as efforts by the AKP to bring it back to its longing for the Sharia. Dear friends, the prime minister, the presidency, the ministry are responsible authorities, you can't just say anything, you have to predict the consequences. See, Turkey's rivals in tourism are using these events against us, mostly from power, and if so, the number of tourists coming to Turkey will be in great trouble. Another issue: the prospect of economic crisis in Russia, leading the most important countries where Turkey received visitors, and the possibility of domestic problems in Ukraine hitting sales in 2015. I think the narrowing down in the Russian market, especially spending money, will make a heavy bill for Turkish tourism. This must be taken as an emergency measure. As a member of the industry, let's not think that we're just discussing problems here, but we're talking from this platform to a solution from time to time. In this sense, we recommend immediate measures for future Turkish tourism not to get stuck on the beaches, for the development of culture and economism. National parks, potentially developing areas of culture and economism, should be protected and not open to construction. The balance of benefit and harm must be set up well, not just a quarry on every hill, not a HES on every stream. Otherwise, we'll have no use for nature's tourism. In addition, the government must quickly take steps to direct tourism incentives, investments and plan a master's master's plan with the participation of representatives of the industry and universities. The macroturism planning and programmes should be based on objective criteria and should never be compromised. Unscheduled growth must be avoided, my friends. The incentive fields must be reviewed, the areas that will ensure the diversity of tourism, not the rant. A measure must be taken so that tourist facilities and domestic tour operators do not fall into the hands of strangers. An insurance premium must be provided for the facilities to serve for 12 months. Taxes on alcoholic beverages that destroy our competitive power should be reduced to the level of rival countries. Besides, the tourism industry is a big business, and it shouldn't be run just under the tuRSAB, friends. In addition to travel agencies, all shareholders must be united and establish a comprehensive roof organisation and a legal arrangement must be made for them. New regulations must be made to improve education and professional competence. The subject of ridicule, such as the removal of alcohol from tourism schools, should not be discussed. Foreign representations and promotions should be more active in trade fairs, congresses and conferences. The European-based Turkish tour operator must be supported. Tourism trade rooms must be created. Tourism trade rooms must be immediately activated at tourism centres and other cities, particularly Antalya. Tourism, which is Turkey's most important source of income, fuels nearly 50, needs to be made an effort to create a positive perception in countries that are related to the world and Europe, to disseminate the air from the AKP, the air from your talks on foreign policy, by meeting with other tourism sector employees in your ministry, and dissolving today's negative perception. To this end, an urgent meeting must be held with sector representatives. By the end, friends, the Minister of Tourism, unfortunately, is not coming to the capital of tourism, Antalya. We invite the Minister of Tourism to come to Antalya more often, and we recommend that he meet with representatives in the sector and talk to them, at least listen to them, even if they don't solve problems. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0049par0032	Thank you. The eighth speaker is Tolga Çangar, Mughal MP. Here you go, Mr. Chandar.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0050par0036	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister at the start of my speech: In the heart of Ankara, the Irfan Şahin Workshop stage in Turkey's capital, is being attacked in the middle of the night by an armed person of 30 unknown people; there are artists standing guard for art, who stand watch to keep that institution alive, and guns explode. I mean, 30 anonymous people are attacking the government's institution, but the Ministry of Culture isn't getting a satisfactory explanation. Why, Mr. Secretary, why? I mean, I wonder why you've been so quiet about this attack on your own organization. With the artistic development of societies in the course of history, both the development of democracy and the ideological developments, the social progresses are competing. So, if a future historian knows something about a country he doesn't know -- there's a country in history called Turkey -- he doesn't know much about its social structure, but if he knows something about its political structure, its social structure, its art, its culture, its average, maybe three to five, its culture. And the opposite is true. If he has knowledge of his art, knowledge of his culture, how a society like this can be managed by a government, how it can be governed by a government, it can produce a few or more conclusions about it. I'm very curious that one day, one day, a scientist who said, "What level was the social structure of this country, Turkey, the country called Turkey, the art, the culture?" and tried to look at his politics, I think he'd be mistaken. The opposite is also true; what it reveals about the political structure of that country by looking at the values of this culture you're carrying in the middle can also lead to a lot of very interesting, very different consequences. We moved from this race to say... that the artists of Turkey have prepared a project. Based on this project, we've drawn up a bill. We've come up with a law called TUSAK law, the Ministry of Culture, the Arts Agency law. So, we're going from the project that you've proposed to us, and we're going from the autonomous art project, where Turkey has a 60-year-old life span of 60-year-olds across the world, and, unfortunately, it seems to me, it's to me, to destroy our country, its people, it's an opera, it's a ballet, it's a theater, it's an effort to destroy them, it's an effort to get them out of their own sense of art, because that's how they've been using the law they've been doing. You're coming, you're looking, and now, one AKP Mayor says, "I spit into this art." The other says, "Why are you giving money to these people because two zurnas made them sing?" Another, the Minister of Culture -- when he gets the chance to sleep -- he says, "The Minister of Culture" -- says, "My friend is full of too many stones in this country; let them take it, and let them give back the works of Islam that they missed in Europe. Like that, we've tried to manipulate Turkish life so far, with such absurd understandings that they won't even fill a fig core like this, but it's not possible. Which one? He's always confused. I've asked him before. A government has art policies, and with that policy, you try to take Turkish art life. It's something we've been doing on the street for years by street artists: trying to live modern Turkish culture, Turkish culture and art, and to tell future generations in a healthy way, modern Turkish culture and art. But you're looking... that's the way it's supposed to be. Just as we're not trying to recreate light bulbs, electricity today, we should be able to use modern cultural values as well as the right artistic currents. It's done, it's very advanced... maybe it doesn't have a buyer, but you can't judge how many people listen to an art product. Maybe an art product that many people listen to doesn't make as much sense to us as those people do to them. So, valuable lawmakers, if we're going to look at the art of a society, we need to look at whether it maintains its traditional structure, how much it can be used with modern values, because modern countries, developed countries have done so. You see, this society, which is deeply dependent on Japan, its traditional values, has grown world-famous orchestra conductors, world-famous opera singer, world-famous dancers, so it's not so hard to keep its traditions and be a part of the contemporary world, but it is necessary to produce healthy policies, healthy art policies. For this, there must be an environment in society, such as this, where the Ministry of Culture is the head of the Ministry of Culture, where a discussion can create Turkey's art policy. How governments used to change, but foreign policy didn't change. There was a good understanding, and now we've destroyed it, and that's the kind of understanding that every government comes, and every minister is expected to see what Turkey's foreign policy will be when it changes. That's what art policies should be like, not the policies that change according to governments, but the rights of the common mind, which continue despite governments, are discussed, and the art policies of the common mind must put the weight on the Turkish culture life. Dear lawmakers, what is important is that it should be under the duties of the Ministry of Culture to contribute to the development of these opera artists and this art by defining specificity rights in accordance with the ILO and ISO laws and copyright laws, by implementing a detailed study in accordance with the rights related to them -- by making their descriptions -- by making them clear -- by contributing to the development of these opera artists and this art. I think it's best for all of you to accept the Opera and Ballet budget that the State Opera and Ballet, which the State Opera and Ballet has sent to the Ministry in its own capacity, to discuss within its own body, and to accept it in the way that the employees of the Opera and Ballet are suggesting, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0051par0046	Thank you. The last speaker is Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0052par0050	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the budgets of the State Theatre General Directorate and the Turkish Writers' Office. I salute your high council. Before I begin, I'd like to cherish Professor Talat Sait Halman, our first Minister of Culture to have lost in the past few weeks and our most valued cultural envoy. Culture has been a great contribution to our lives, and it's always been a person of respect. Many of our past culture ministers, including Talat Sait Halman, were aware that art changed societies in a positive way. Without fear of change or innovation, above all, without fear of art, they carried out their duties and took their rightful place in our cultural history. History has shown us that those who fear the opposing identity of art, therefore try to destroy art with pressure, censorship, are not blessed at all. I'm sure when history writes these days, it'll talk about censorship, it'll talk about mental police, it'll talk about art enforcement, it'll talk about art as much as any field, it'll talk about when artists try to break the resistance, but I'm sure it'll end up talking about art, because periods change, power comes, and art survives. Art always survives because art reveals the truth with all its nakedness, without bending and bending the truth, without hiding behind lies. Therefore, those who fear freedom, who do not want the truth to be heard, are always afraid of art. Well, today the Justice and Development Party is afraid of art. That's why there are conspiracy theories of mind damage from an artist, so the games are censored, so some artists are prevented from performing, so the Travel documentary is excluded from the Golden Orange Film Festival. Now, that's what fear is all about. This bill aims to destroy art institutions, to subject them to censorship that they can't destroy, to establish an institution whose members will be determined by the Council of Ministers. The support for cultural art projects will also be determined by this committee. If you play games that don't touch milk, of course you'll get support. No, if you have any opposition, you'll get air instead of money, as long as Friends Theater and 16 theaters are not supported this year. That's the summary of the bill. It is not difficult to imagine how those assigned to this institution would have a mental attitude, and what they understood about art would be limited to advocacy. To give a concrete example of the government's stance on this issue, last week the office of the General Directorate of Istanbul City Theatres was appointed a person with no prior ties to the theatre. The new General Manager, Deputy Director of Water Products, Police Department, Assistant Director of Education, Youth and Sports County Directorate at IETT General Directorate, has been in no position to perform theatre. Of course, this is not an appointment that is responsible for the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. There will be a defence. However, I think the ruling party is a very important example of its approach to art and understanding. Although, it would be fanciful to expect more from the director of the zoo than the idea of a government appointing president. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, our art community has expressed its dissatisfaction with this bill on every platform. The institutions that want to be shut down, the institutions that oppose this bill. There is no way to find anyone who has supported this bill, except a few people who consider it a trick to be in the wheelwater of power and power. Now, I would like to remind those who consider it a trick to go in the wheelwater of this power, that the life span of clowns is as long as the king's. On the Day when all that you say, all that you do, all that you take, all that you do, all that you do, all that you do, will remain in remembrance. And why is it so persistent that artists, NGOs, and institutions that want to be shut down, except for a few supporters, are so opposed to this bill? The primary reason is, of course, fear of opposing art, and the other reason is to look at art institutions as a matter of profit and loss as well as everything else. Art is as important as education. THE defence of TUSAK-like institutions can be found in other countries. That's right, there are similar art institutions in England and Austria. It has to exist, but the purpose of these institutions is to give state support to the arts without government supervision, as we do, I give the money, and then I blow the whistle. I seduce those who say what I want, and I punish those who say I don't. There's no logic like that. An artist can't be an officer. Does the state make art, or does the government pay for art? That's what makes sense all the time. Otherwise, you can spend money on people's taxes on illegal palaces without lifting a finger, so it's not a question of money. It is feared that art opposes these illegal palaces. Fearful of public suffering, mining killings, poverty, corruption, bans, through art. It's believed that when art institutions are contained, they can't be explained. There has been a lot of power in the world that's tried this, and there's even some government in the squares that's burned the opposition books. This world, you're just going to play this game, you're going to draw this cartoon, you're going to write this article. It's been said to the artists, but all those powers have come and gone. It's always been futile to try to make art power-guided, to gain art, to gain art again, because art holds mirrors to life, reflects ugliness as it is. He thinks instead of getting angry in the mirror, we should remove those ugliness, and I salute you all with the hope that the 2015 budget will be good for our culture and for our country.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0053par0059	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0054par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0053par0061	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0054par0062	Just to make it clear to the authorities: The valuable speaker, who gave a speech to art and artist in the context that there should be a special value to be given beyond political debates, saw no harm in referring to artists who disagreed with CHP's views, who disagreed with different opinions. So...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0055par0063	Wrong, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0054par0064	He said he did.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0056par0065	He said it, he said it, you're not listening.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0055par0066	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0057par0067	The government responds, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0058par0068	No offense. Why are you offended?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0059par0069	What makes an artist a clown? They are artists, too, but when they don't follow their own beliefs, they cast a shadow over their eyes and expressed that their own discourse is not primarily an art-based approach.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0060par0070	Mr. Vice President of the Group, he didn't mean anything to you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0058par0071	No offense.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0061par0072	Thank you, Mr. Bostanci. The government's already listening, so I assume they'll answer.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0074	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0061par0075	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0076	Sir, for the record, Mr. Group Vice President probably didn't listen to the speech.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0063par0077	You probably didn't listen to that sentence, so get the transcripts.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0078	Someone said something in his ear, came out, made a comment. If he'd listened, he'd have found out it wasn't like this, or he didn't know he was listening.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0063par0079	You probably didn't understand that you were listening, so why don't you bring in the transcripts?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0080	Mr. Sedef said that the days of kings are small.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0064par0081	In what context did he say that?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0082	Are you saying that there is a king in Turkey?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0064par0083	No, in what context did he say that?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0065par0084	You're the one who told me. You can't hear what you're saying or...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0085	If there is a king in Turkey, of course the king and the clown's life is equal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0064par0086	Don't take meaning out of context, sir. It means something in context.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0087	Art doesn't have ideology. Art is art. Unfortunately, during the time of your government, art was involved in politics, Mr. Sedef Küçük expressed it. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0066par0088	It's not appropriate for a politician like you to make politics sound like a bad thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0067par0089	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0062par0090	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0066par0091	You make politics sound like a bad thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0067par0092	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0066par0093	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0068par0094	Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0067par0095	How's it supposed to be?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0066par0096	What do you mean, art's involved in politics. What does that mean?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0067par0097	No, tell me how it's supposed to be.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0066par0098	Is politics bad?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0067par0099	Now, we're talking budgets here, so I'll tell you the truth, you never do.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0069par0100	The expression "contaminated" is to explain that politics is a dishwashing thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0101	Mr. President, let me make this a little bit more clear. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Politics is the art of solving problems. Of course, politics is a good thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0069par0102	Dish is nothing, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0103	Politics is the instrument of serving the nation. When I say art, I mean the repertoire of art, what the artist plays, what play, what line he uses, the political institution doesn't decide.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0069par0104	No, of course not. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0105	But you have an understanding of what line to use in the play, what the artist will say.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0071par0107	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Point taken.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0072par0108	Mr. President, the Vice President of the Precious Group didn't listen to the speaker or understand that he was listening. It's an insult.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0109	It's not an insult, it's a taunt, sir; it's a say.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0072par0110	I'm a smart person who understands that I'm listening, and I know that I'm reading and I'm listening. This is an inappropriate language of insult, which I cannot reconcile with the kindness of Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0111	No, never. I do not accept punishment.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0073par0112	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0073par0114	Yes, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the first speaker is Altan Tan.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0070par0116	Mr. President, one sentence, sir...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0073par0117	Mr. Tan, just a moment. I'm sorry, please. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0074par0119	Mr. President, you've interrupted our applause, so let the friends continue!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0075par0120	We'll give you a round of applause, dear.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0076par0121	I would never, certainly not accept the word "damaged." He didn't listen enough. He didn't understand what he was listening to. It's not an insult. Never, sir, I don't accept such a thing.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0077par0122	Well, thank you. Mr. Tan, come in. Now give it up, guys.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0078par0126	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, dear friends, I have made a promise to you regarding the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget. Of course, speaking of the Interior Ministry budget, I find it more and more appropriate and correct to begin today regarding the new security package, which is being discussed in the House IA subcommittee. Dear friends, the history of the Republic of Turkey continued with the struggle to end military custody before and after the republic. From the removal of the Yeniçarı January, until the military intervention in the March 31st case -- (1909) -- and then the ongoing coups of a whole Republic era, administrations and interventions on the National Security Council kept politics on the agenda and began to underline the need to end this military custody. We've barely been there, we've gone up the creek, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, we've been there, Again, according to the figures the Minister gave in the Interior Commission, according to the figures he gave in the budget, there are now over 270,000 law enforcement officers, the Home Office official, so that's almost more than half the current army. That's not enough, we've asked the number, there's no response so far, but according to the figures we've learned from the press -- I don't know how accurate -- again, over 70,000 or around 70,000 -- so I'm using a cautious language for it -- there's a village ranger. When you put the police on top of the village ranger, almost a new army emerges, and a new law on national intelligence comes to the House every few months, and new laws on security package, because those powers are not enough, and they are increasingly increased and come to a point where, after a while, almost whenever the police want to, a new political atmosphere can be arrested by interference in the judiciary. Dear friends, I don't want to get into this for too long, because I have other things to talk about, but just so we're clear on some of our objections. For example, the penalty for possession of a gun is one year, but the penalty for having a new set of regulations is four years for a stone thrower or for a political march, for a demonstration, or for someone holding the flag, the flag, the emblem of an illegal organization. Now let them all be free, and let the stone be cast out, and let the Molotov be cast out, and let him cover his face. In a democratic march, in a democratic demonstration, I'm as opposed to people covering their faces as you are, but there's a word among the people, we said, "Hit it, kill it." Here's a serious weirdo, my dear friends, if it's a year's punishment for a gun catcher, but if it's four years' punishment for a stone thrower or a stone bearer. For him, these mistakes must be corrected, and these pleasures must be put to rest. What are you talking about, is there something fun? If you say... Dear friends, I'm not going back fifteen, twenty, thirty years, so I'm not going to talk about the unsolved murders, the practices that you don't even dare to ask me if I'm the security guard who took you down from a white Renault, who knocked on your door in the middle of the night, took you away and then executed you. Let's go back to the last three, four years we lived, so before we go too far back, let's go back to the last three, four years we've lived, and let's re-enact what we've been going through, and we'll put it down and over and over again. Dear friends, what is the government's greatest delight and most boasted about is that we have removed military custody, 68 generals in prison. These were the most important matters of village coffee, condolences, engagements, circumcisions, weddings, but where did we come from? After a while, we got to the point that they framed our national army, which means they tricked us, cheated us, gave us false information. We, the hero, have come back from this by framing our national army, which has nothing to do with it, by framing it, in the name of the people. So, which one is it? Is it true that these 68 generals were brought in with various allegations, or is it true that the military was framed, so let's put it in a parentheses and put it aside. Again, at the same time, a large number of people were taken into custody and arrested with practices called KCK detentions, which we call KCK detentions -- including the mayors of Kızıltepe and Batman -- right after they won the 101 municipalities in the region during the 2009 local elections. Again, on the day of the first arrest -- I wasn't a deputy yet -- I was in front of the courthouse in Diyarbakir, in front of a live broadcaster, opening my hands on a national television channel: you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong. Five years passed, six years passed, and now Batman Mayor and Şırnak Mayor have gone out, and they have been released, but the courts regarding their claims have not yet been concluded, and they have not yet been convicted. What about five years and six years of these people? Guilty or not guilty, for what reason, not guilty, let's take this to a second parentheses. After that, there's parallel construction claims. Ten years, 12 years of love marriage, which, unfortunately, has been a police station. And here, at this coming point, the people who were raised yesterday, the people who weren't dusted, the people who weren't put in the dust, the people of Akredity, they were taken into custody again in the middle of the night or one morning. So, my dear friends, where does this go? The operations against Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer, the KCK, the parallel, last December 17th and December 25th, the ministers of the government, the children of the minister and the children of the President... where will this end? Who's right and who's wrong, who's guilty and who's not? After being tried in prison for a year, three years, five years, I'm sorry, there's been a mistake. If it's left to say, "Where's the end?" Of course, from here, I'd like to say a few things about these parallel building claims today, I'd like to continue, and I'd like to call out to these friends who are now in custody -- of course, they don't have the ability to watch me or hear my voice as of today, but hopefully, they'll soon be able to get that opportunity, they'll be free. During this election, there was a television series called "Collation" on one of these television channels. At that time, these friends, who couldn't stomach my being a candidate from the Labor, Democracy and Freedom Bloc, the BDP block, put me in that show as a type; hold me from here, copying the same yellow coat that I was wearing, and a brother sitting here now, a brother of ours, an AKP MP, was played in those shows as a patriotic Kurdish, and I was not portrayed as a traitor. So, what happened today? Look, we're defending their rights here, and I'm defending them. For him, dear friends, when it comes to this, I want to tell you a story -- we have time. So that's how it is, where it's going to go in turns, where everyone's going to beat each other up, and what's going to be the end of this movie -- I want to tell a joke about this: our Midyat -- who knows -- Muslim, Christian, Ezidi, Kurd, Arab live together, living together in the same geography for hundreds of years, sometimes in the same village. Three young, not quite young, but twelve, thirteen years old, fourteen years old, like this, Muslim Halil, Suryani Hanna, and Ezidi Hawtio; three of them friends, from the same village. They're going for a ride, for a ride. They're moving away from the village, a few villages up ahead, they're looking at a bostan, and they're saying: "Ya, let's go in, let's eat a little bit." One of them is warning them that Hawtio, the loser, says: "Let's not go into this bostana, this bostan" and so on. The other one, Halil, who's a Muslim, says: "It was my father's field, it was my father's field." What happens if we pick a cucumber or two, a tomato or something? They're going in. He can just sit there and see the net from a distance without putting a bite in his mouth. Agha had no helpers, no bodyguards, no relatives, so he went for a ride on a horse, and saw these young men, children, twelve, thirteen, fourteen years old. If I'm mad at them, I wonder if they'll react, if they know me or not, they'll do the math. If I don't say anything, it'll turn into a passing inn, coming and going to the bostana. Anyway, he's pulling up. As soon as he gets off his horse, he looks at the kids who, what, whose kids, the shape, the dress... He's got his eye on the loser. Get the fuck over here! You're not Muslim, you're not Christian, you don't believe in Jesus Christ, you don't believe in Muhammad. You have neither a scripture nor a thing. How come you're in my basement? This Muslim is already a Muslim, my brother, my friend, who I am, and his grandfather was my friend. The other one is Christian, my Kirvem's children. These two are relaxing with Muslim and Christian, they say: "The Aga will not do anything to us." The Agha hits the Ezidi, and then turns to the Christian boy, saying: "This Muslim, my religion is one, my book is one, I don't know, this one has eaten my property, let it be good." And you, Jesus Christ, you've already crucified him, how did you do what you did, or what you did? And then he turns around and he turns around and he says, "Wow, wow, wow, you're going to be a Muslim." You're going to talk about God, religion, the book, the Koran, and you've got an Ezidi, and a Christian, and you're going to dive into my trunk, and you're going to protect my property. His Islam is worse than the others, he says. All three of them enter the village blind, lame, miserable. He says: "What happened, children, what happened to you, the oppressed, the Christians, the Muslims?," says Ezidi, "Ask them." They both say, "We were going to take care of Ezidi, we didn't come out like this, we were hit one by one by one." Dear friends, how long will this tattoo last? So 68 generals went in, wrong, out. There's been a KCK operation, 10,000 Kurds in, let's just say, I don't know, heads back up, councilmen back up. Members of the congregation came in today, and they came out tomorrow. The Minister's kids were taken in, wow, and they've got nothing. So, who do we trust? What's right? Where's the law? Are there really these allegations or not? So what do we do, bring in judges from outside the European Court of Human Rights, America, China, India? Dear friends, all I say to power is, believe it or not, you'll be next. The political atmosphere has changed... so it's a threat, so don't take it as a demagogue, a polemic because you went through it last year. That's why we're asking you... why do we ask? The power is in your hands today, and you say yes to what you want here. You say no to what you don't want. Come on, get these things back on track, so the police can be straight cops, and the judgment can be straight. Here we tell you, Hazreti Omar returned the property of a Jew who was forced to build a mosque in Egypt; here Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror went to court with an ordinary citizen; and the other one did something or other. Our history, our imams, our preachers, our politicians, tell dozens, hundreds of examples. That's the kind of judgment you're gonna set up, fair and square. So Muslim, Christian, Ezidi, secular, religious, Sunni, Alevi, whoever goes there, should not be afraid when he sees the police. According to one principle, the police, according to a judgment, according to an arrangement to take whom they are taking into custody and let whom they are letting go. Dear friends, while the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget is being discussed, I'd like to say a few words about the structure of the Interior Ministry. Dear friends, number one: You can no longer govern Turkey with the Law on the Administration of these provinces. Is there a Minister of the Interior? Of course not, Mr. Secretary. We have an assistant minister. Since 1923, Turkey has made legal arrangements several times along with the latest Metropolitan Law, for example. I mean, there's a reform effort, but it's not enough that these reform efforts are going to carry the burden of Turkey, meet the need, set up a new understanding of governance; they're not enough. I mean, the kid's growing up, growing up, growing up, growing up, but the clothes you've cut him up in, you know, the ones you've cut him up in, you know, the ones you've cut him up in, the ones you've cut up in Asia Minor, they're tight, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not. We said it again in the last Metropolitan Law, when we were discussing it here. For example, there's been a city council, okay, two parliaments up, one council, but the governor's there. What's the governor's jurisdiction? What are the powers of the mayor of the city? They got into each other. In the same way, the city council, for example, has been given zoning powers, which have existed before, but the ability to use geothermal resources -- in that province -- and other mineral deposits remained in the mother and central administration. Now, now, the latest, for example, has been an app for thousands of trees that a mining company has cut down overnight. If these powers were local, would he be able to do such a thing? Or who would say when he did, "The people of it will question him." I mean, there would be no blame, no judgment, no government or any other agency. There has to be a new administration, a new county administration, new districts, new provinces, provinces, regional governments. In this regard, our party, for example Turkey, has a management proposal from the province of 20 to 25 districts, but none of this has been taken into account. Again, in the same way, there are places where they've been punished. How about a place to be punished? Like Sivrek, the Young, the Mine, the East Coast. These are 1925, where the MPs of Siverek, the members of the Ministrians, Bayyet -- they are somehow being taken away from their rights while they are somehow being taken away from them while they claim to have supported him in the presence of Sheikh Sait Efendi, who is still the victim, while he is still in the state status of the province, while he is not finished -- in the nail. And again, in the same way, it is not possible that today you will be able to manage a Tarsusu, Alexanderunu, Bandirmah, Nazilli, these examples -- in a borough status. For him, Turkey must immediately make a new administration, administrative, local reform, both by management units and by authority and by responsibilities. We will, but this Kurdish issue is in the way. What if the country is divided? Here, dear friends, is this Kurdish issue, and you can't take steps that need to be taken, and this issue can't be solved properly. There's something directly relevant about this: the mines being cleared. Since the first day the AK PARTI government came into power, look, look at government programs, look at the statements of ministers, the Prime Minister, our current Reisicumhur, they've made repeated promises that all mines within 900km of Syria will be cleared, and they've reached a point where they can even do this mine-cleaning tender. So, what happened? Those mines are still standing, and it's getting to a point where people are trying to tear those mines out of Suruç (with their own hands) between Kobani and Nusaybin (with their own hands). So that's the same sense of security, that there's gotta be a solution to this paranoia, and these minefields need to be cleaned up as soon as possible. We just talked about judgment again. Corruption files are the most serious claims in the history of the republic -- I'll say most important. That's right, that's a lie, that's a lie, that's a lot, what happened? Rafa's up. The police didn't listen to the order of the trial. Here, therefore, dear friends, when these matters continue in this way, unfortunately, it is not possible for the public to have any serious confidence in the judiciary or the police or the law. Because whoever has an operation against them starts a victimization the next day, and these charges continue, unfortunately, a lot of them are true. And finally, I'll tell you a few words about the Ministry of Culture, when we've seen Mr. Minister of Culture here -- we don't have an Interior Minister; Mardin Dara Ruins -- which is as important as an Efes, as important as Hasankeyf, as important as Bergama, a great city that the Romans built in 353, between Mardin and Mardin and, unfortunately, and so far, no one has ever been aware of its existence. The pendulums, temples, and the famous dungeon in 353, which is called the "nation" of the first term, have now built a village house on it. I mean, think about it. There's a house on a date like this, dear friends who haven't even done the will and the destruction of that house. In the same way, Mem û Zin was published without censorship, and it was published without censorship, but while Mem û Zin was being staged, for example, in a demonstration in Van (again the Ministry of Culture) -- you look into it -- the original astar -- with the script, with that story -- was placed in a Turkmen wedding. They ask, "Where did this come from?" They say, "Well, dear, what if there was a Turkmen wedding in it?" Dear friends, can you put a Turkmen wedding or a Kurdish wedding in Romeo and Juliet? And that's tragic. Mr. Bulent Arinc has responded to my claims about a foundation in Diyarbakır. I didn't say it was legal here. I didn't say it was legal. Legally, 15 per cent, 20/22, and 3 million acres, this family's foundation gave them away; they took the money from the open, and they went out of Diyarbakır. I told you that. He answers: "There is nothing illegal. " In the same way, what if Diyarbekir, Elaziz, Bozok, Saruhan, for Manisa? Mr. Secretary, that would be great, but please don't talk and do some work. My respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0079par0154	Thank you. Mr. Dudu, during your speech earlier, you have a request to correct the statement regarding Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0080par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just learned that a statement I've used in my speech may be interpreted differently by some lawmakers than I meant. But what I'm doing here is just an example, and it's a criticism of the Justice and Development Party, which accuses the Republican People's Party of being pro-Assad at every turn. My point is that the Republican People's Party is only for peace, democracy and freedom all over the world; whoever is guilty of crimes against humanity, whatever its name is, is against it. This should be known, or I don't mean anything or anyone in particular in the sense that this illustration is happening in our country. Thank you for the opportunity to explain.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0081par0162	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the second speaker is Nazmi Gür, Van MP. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0082par0205	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the budget of the Immigration Administration General Directorate, which operates under the Ministry of Interior. I hereby salute the General Assembly. If you look at the legal legislation, you will find that the work and work coverage of the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate, which began operating from early 2014, has been very tight. The Finnish Immigration Administration, which has a field of action only related to deportation or protection of people from abroad who have come to Turkey through legal or illegal means, does not have a protective field on the number of forced migration victims in Turkey. Thus, it is more accurate in our blood that the name of this institution is called the foreign immigration administration. For refugees who have had to leave their homes for war, economic reasons, political pressures and so on, Turkey has become a sort of transit country or gathering ground. Thus, the organisation of human traffickers in Turkey and the creation of interest groups have enabled the establishment of large criminal networks. The increasing tragedy of thousands of people who were left to die in the middle of the sea with the promise of being delivered to Europe for large sums of money by human traffickers has shown that Turkey's responsible institutions are still not taking the necessary measures. Dear lawmakers, even though it does not enter the Finnish Immigration Administration's workspace, it is also useful to mention the reality of a multidimensional problem we call a "migration" in Turkey. The immigration problem has always been ahead of the main issues of the 90-year-old Republic of Turkey. During the Ottoman period, Armenians were not only faced with massacres, but were also forced to march hundreds of miles of death. Again, we know the suffering of the exchange between Turkey and Greece is still going on. During the Republic era, in 1937-1938, the Kurds of Dersim were first deported to the massacre and then exiled. During the 6-7 September events, thousands of Greeks were forced to emigrate from Istanbul to Greece with a provocation from the deep state. Since the 1980s, millions of Kurds have been forced to migrate to European cities, such as Istanbul, İzmir, Mersin and Adana. Turkey's internal immigration problem is not only an internal immigration problem, but also the problem of people being forced to migrate. It's important to say that these migrations are as vital and priority as foreign migrations. It is important to say that 4,000 villages in Kurdistan are still empty and that the host population is out there.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0083par0211	Where is Kurdistan, Mr. Nazmi? Is there a region called Kurdistan, Mr. Nazmi?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0082par0212	Therefore, the need for an active institution to operate in order to address social and political problems caused by forced immigration is essential.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0083par0213	Minister, is there a place called Kurdistan in Turkey?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0082par0214	The most serious immigration problem today is people being forced to leave Syria, Rojava, and Shengal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0083par0215	Aren't you the Minister of this government or does it bother you?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0082par0216	The most fundamental issue facing these people is statuslessness. So the political and legal system in Turkey does not give the people who are being forced to migrate to this country to give the people of other countries living in Turkey a status. The refugee rights of the United Nations principle decisions are not taken into account by Turkey, and the people and camps who seek refuge in Turkey are not subject to legal action according to refugee status. Instead, the refugees are prevented from taking legal advantage of their legal rights by referring to a definition such as "guess" to immigrants. At the same time, it is important to note that Turkey has set a geographical reservation for international contracts related to refugee law. The source of the problem, and the source of this status, is this reservation. More than 200,000 people from Kobani and Shengal in three months are faced with no effective and necessary assistance from the government and its institutions. Some camps where Suruç, Diyarbakır, Mardin, and DBP-li municipalities have been held up with very limited resources, are finding life extremely difficult, especially in winter conditions, with hundreds of thousands of people suffering from hunger and cold. Dear friends, the presence of visitors from Syria to Turkey does not require the AKP government to be irresponsible. In Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Antwerp and many other cities, Syrians are living in the streets, begging and running without insurance as a cheap labor force. Syrian people, who are being framed by networks such as human traffickers, Syrian citizens, who are being forced to prostitution and exploited by the AKP government are not interested enough, so to speak, are left on the street. But the same AKP government proudly tells the press that it has hosted over 1 million Syrians at international conferences and diplomatic talks, saying it welcomes them. It's safe to say that's not the case at all. Dear lawmakers, we also need to bring up the issue of refugees who have died on the border. You know, Turkey also serves as a bridge, most of the refugees who want to go to third countries, especially in winter conditions, are facing cold on the eastern borders of Iran and Turkey, often dying on borders. At the same time, those who want to cross Turkey's borders illegally use roads and sea roads. Every day on TV, we hear about these great deaths caused by human trafficking networks, and we read them, and we read them with sadness. The government must take particularly effective measures on this issue, otherwise the government will be responsible for the death of every refugee. Human trafficking, dear friends, is one of the most fundamental problems in this country. In a region from east to west, human traffickers, especially from Syria and south Kurdistan, also play a key role in the abduction of refugees from Shengal, and the abduction of them to third countries. In this regard, we invite the government to take effective measures to prevent human trafficking, and we want the government to act decisively and decisively on it. Dear friends, again, because the government has not taken effective measures on this immigration issue, people who have not taken sufficient advantage of the UN's office in Turkey to go to third countries in particular, people who have been denied their files are using this route. We read from the press that some of these human traffickers, from time to time, were involved in some of the security guards, especially in the police. In this regard, we recommend that the government, especially the Ministry of Interior, take effective measures on its own, on refugees, and that those in charge of this matter be audited, completed, and that is a very necessary situation. Dear lawmakers, the Immigration Administration and its institutions must act ethnically and religiously undiscriminately towards displaced people. Those who try to survive under difficult circumstances must be effectively taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to prevent them from being forced to commit crimes. We would also like to point out that in the context of these problems that we've been talking about in the coming years, we've repeated our call for the government to take urgent arrangements and measures. In the same way, the government, especially the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, must act in a way that will facilitate the working area. In fact, the main office of the United Nations is supposed to be located not in Ankara, but perhaps in Van. As long as these reserves are maintained, this office must be moved to Van. As long as Turkey's geographical reserves are maintained, the United Nations will be able to function effectively. In the same way, we recommend that Turkey remove any reservations that are particularly against international refugee law. This is a requirement of both human rights and democracy. If we really believe that the Syrians, the Shengali, have a status, rights, rather than being our guests here, we need to implement these arrangements that will allow them to be recognised as refugees. As I conclude my words here, I salute the General Assembly with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0084par0225	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make one thing clear. In his speech, the speaker just used a statement that 4,000 villages were evacuated in Kurdistan. The state of the Republic of Turkey is the homeland of a nation that has become one body within 780,000 square kilometers of the border. There is no Kurdistan here. I want him to take it back, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0085par0227	Right. Mr. Lütfü, this is the first time you've said the right thing, congratulations.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0086par0228	Mr. Secretary will answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0087par0230	Mr. President, we have nothing to take back.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0086par0231	Third speaker Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0087par0234	Kurdistan is historical, social reality.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0088par0235	You know you do, but...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0089par0236	It's free to imagine.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0087par0237	It's not fantasy, it's reality, reality. Everyone will accept the reality.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0090par0238	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0091par0239	We're not imagining it, we're saying it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0092par0240	You'll keep dreaming.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0093par0241	Congressmans, please... Mr. Corporate, I'm rebooting. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0094par0244	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Economics. In Human Rights Week, first of all, we see inhuman landscapes again. First of all, I salute all of our people who have fought against this human rights violation since September 12th, who have formed a society, founded a foundation. There's an image that we see a lot of on virtual media today. A police officer inflicts violence and torture on an entertainer as if he were tearing his mouth off. Here, this is Turkey's view of human rights. The other thing, you know, is that there's been a media operation on the congregation for a few days. It seems that the AKP is here to answer to the nation. But no matter how many of these rights violations are made, they won't cover up shoe boxes, chocolate boxes, safes, assets that can't be reset, and corruption. We know that very well. At the Ministry of Economics, of course, we're going to talk about the country's economy. Is the economy going well? The economy is good for some, but for the country, it's hard to say. In fact, speaking from the government, it's said to be doing very well, not so. The indicators, numbers, everyone who talks about it talks about the global economic crisis in particular, and the effects continue. In contrast, when the government last speaks on behalf of Ali Babacan government again, it continues to make very optimistic and unrealistic statements in this regard. The medium-term programme is clearly a dream to prevent the unreality of five per cent growth and unemployment from falling out of languages. Again, what's often warned is that the inflation target should be revised, but would the government do that? He won't. Because he once told the worker and the officer that we'll give you 3+3 in line with these goals. Otherwise, there's no way they can explain it. Cari's processing deficit is growing, and, of course, the external financing deficit is very serious. Again, what everyone is warning is that there is a serious wealth and a serious injustice of income. An 80 percent of prosperity -- the scale of the cake, the largest -- is taken by a 10 percent minority, this happy minority. Now, in the name of the government, Ali Babacan, when he talks here, we're not so good at half-mouthing, but... saying, "No, we're not good." What's the word? We're the worst in injustice in the world. After Mexico, there's no such thing. There's also a saying that AKP lawmakers and its responsible people have not said: "It's not ours to eat when it's hungry." It's a very common word. This literature, this eunuch and, of course, the abuse of faith is still going on. Let's just say that even though we live together in this world, we really are people of different worlds. Look, what's the economy built on? It runs in the housing and service area, other than foreign trade. What the International Financial Institute said: five of the most fragile economies. I mean, the reserves are low, the debt rate is high, and, well, he's unprepared for the world's capitalist crisis, he doesn't know what to do. Because of Syrian, Middle Eastern politics, foreign policy preferences, the dangers and tensions still lie ahead. The private sector's currency debt is $278 billion, and, of course, that's a plus risk. Again, the public-private joint projects that Mr. Ali Babacan has highlighted here, and the guarantee that the state treasure has brought here, and the risk of that is unknown. And it's so easy to talk here when you don't even know it. The central bank reserve administration says we don't have enough information, as it is risky, expensive, out of standard and independent. It says that experts and the greatest danger is that the United States of America has been invested in treasury bonds. At what limits, by what rules, are the bonds exported from public banks, in the name of the treasure? They need to be questioned. The other day, I had a public meeting in Goatsuren. There's a restaurant vendor who's been working in a restaurant for ten years. A virtual inflation, he says. I said, what does he mean by this virtual inflation? Ten years ago, when the AKP came to power, we were taking the meat for $3, and now we can't sell it, 23 lira; loan debt, tax debt, we had to build up, we had to close the shop. Yes, the numbers and the facts against it, but the government is flying like a bird. Last time, Hasip Kaplan showed a slingshot here, in this business, about the slingshot, the rock, the rubble, the punishment. The government said, "Are we birds?" But we really need a slingshot to fly, to fly so many governments. We say you need to get down, get your feet in the water. When the economy talks, of course, you have to look at the working life that rotates the economy wheel. Last time, the Minister of Labor said here (76 million), let's say 77 million. A ministry that really concerns the whole of Turkey. Is there really a struggle now? I wonder if there's unemployment and there's a struggle. I can't see it. And that's what it was like in the past when they said we've narrowed it down to this much. During your time, no lamma, 15,000 workers were killed at work. Is there a record beyond that? And now, the new package, the business safety package. There's no need to go there too long. In a word, what this package brings is to bill that worker for all the cargo, all the responsibility, the accident, the worker's death. Because you didn't do what you had to do, you didn't follow the instructions, you didn't have training, we fired you without compensation. That's all. He's bragging that we've signed the international agreement. It's finally signed here. Consciousness is underlined. So, these deals, these laws, these big words, do they solve the problem? The problem was in the system and in the system, and we saw it in Soma. We saw it in Ermenek. We saw it in Soma. We saw it in Soma. Speaking of yalvas... what's a yalvach? In Isparta, women, children, seasonal farm workers, 17 people died in the van. Traffic murder on video. But I think the Minister of Labor will agree that it was a very obvious worker's murder. We're looking, Mr. Labour Minister's speeches don't even mention the name of Yalvanç. Seasonal workers try 4 million in Turkey. Much more. They're not even named. The minister says: "We have given the worker the right not to work. " If there is a danger, if there is a risk, the worker will not work, he will face it. Where is such a worker? This is dangerous to the employer, to the employer, to the boss. It causes my death. It needs to be a job guarantee so that he can say it. So when he gets kicked out tomorrow, he's gonna have a law, an unemployment fund, an organized life, a working life. Of course, none of this exists. The fugitive dies in the furnaces. It's called. Zonguldak gave another example. There's a rumor going around that these stoves are illegal, and nobody's asking why, for God's sake, they're illegal. Aren't you causing this to be an illegal furnace, Minister? I mean, that's how the Minister of Labor talks after the accidents. What does the Minister of Energy say when 2,831 workers were thrown out in Soma? We can't give up our basic policies. What are their fundamental policies? The government doesn't run mines. The Coal Company won't run the mines, what will they do? Redevans, rental, service purchase. In those furnaces, he'll just open, and let the miners work. It's not enough for them to work. You send them to their death again, and the Soma worker has been demanding for days. Let the government run us, let TKI work us. Let our compensation be paid. Let's work safely, don't send us to die. It's called. We've removed the subcontractor system that's become the exploitation of the land... the bag is in the law. Has the subcontractor system gone, has it become more common? Today, Turkey's elders, at work, are employing thousands of subcontractors under it. One of these subcontractors has a petition for us. Last time they came to the press conference, we asked the Minister. The subcontractor works ruthlessly, with a minimum wage, with pounds of sugar on his back, sacks of flour, neck, skeleton system, he's sick from head to toe. (Intervertebral disc disorder. Who said that? Istanbul Occupational Hospital. We do not know such a thing, and it has been decided that this disorder is not professional. Here, we've removed the Tabheron worker. The story, that's all. The unemployment rate is going down to 5 percent. How's he gonna fall? National Employment Strategy. Well, we know this very well: rental workers' offices, flexible, uncompromising, disposing of the worker, working part-time, working from afar, all kinds of slavery. Here are the Vanese workers you employ for community benefit, after the earthquake, they were put on the street, and here are 4,000 workers working at the Candy Factory, who want thousands of workers working on the highways, government, who want guaranteed work; you can still, you know, prevent unemployment like this, like this, you can avoid unemployment like this, look, reduce working hours. Not eight hours, ten hours, twelve hours. Look, drop the hours, and thousands of workers will be opened up to bread. Now, you know, Mr. President of Ermenek, you are our sons. You should have written to us. After that, a worker wrote a letter to the President and made it clear. Look, it's in the paper, too. I'd like to share some headlines with you: I work in a private mine. My father was a miner. Then these stoves were the state's. When the government started selling the mines, we often experienced disasters. After Soma, we learn that Germany produces more coal than we do, but there are no mortal incidents. So the German government has ruled out the mining deaths as fate. My mother and brothers and I live together in the house my late father barely built. I've worked in a private mine for nine years. We started with 450 lira. That was a dry wage. They promised me coal as a social worker, but they haven't fulfilled that promise in nine years. Today, my salary is 1,100 lira; we have no pounds of coal, no bonus, and no other kind of social benefits. • Many words have gone ahead of the president, I think the press advisers put it in front of him. In Article 46 of the Constitution, the state takes the necessary measures to raise the life level of employees, protect employees and unemployed, increase employment and ensure work peace. No one can be employed in work that does not conform to his age, gender, or strength. There are signs such as these. But these are only forgotten on paper in Zonguldak. At the end of the letter, we're being killed beautifully by someone. Dear MPs -- the ministers are here, and your Culture Minister is here -- especially, I'd like to talk about education and cultural policies in terms of social life and future dangers in our country. A serious conservativeization, of course, as a state policy and preferential privatisation, and as a AKP method of staffing. Change, change, change... was said. The curriculum has changed, management has changed, employment policies have changed. There's a lot of money pouring into private education, encouraged, and our people's spending on education has increased five times as much. Now, there have often been advice from the 19th National Education Service, which had recently ended. Actually, it's pretty much out here now, so the intentions are pretty clear. The increase in imam-members... not religious officials, look, religious volunteers according to the government. We think it's only close to 100,000 people in the Head of Religious Affairs, you know, imams, a lot of staff, but there's a lot of religious officials beyond that. It's the point of raising a religious generation. What happened? Freedom of a headdress from the gender of a 9-year-old girl has been granted the freedom to cover herself under the name "Law." Religious education is tried in the first, second, third classes. The sexist approach, of course, comes in mixed education. Karma education is too much for this power now, it's getting in your eyes. Assuredly, association, association. Look, you're doing it wrong, you're playing with fire. For years, the point of polarizing people against each other in this country is that this sexist, moralist approach has made people in the neighborhood, children in the same classroom, families in front of each other. It's not acceptable. The tester, the memorist, the educator, the teacher who's expecting 300,000 appointments. Our teachers often complain about rotations, exiles, or mobbings, but on the other hand, their backs are bent; salaries are not enough, each of them owes a credit card. Again, this government and the Department of National Education are, of course, obsessed with the youth's disguise. No, you're wearing earrings, you're wearing something else, you're insulting young people, you're humiliating them among their friends, and you're not offending them like that; that's wrong. An Ottomanism, an Ottomanic; it's been discussed. Now, valued lawmakers, we know who the Ottoman Empire has been used by in history, an Ottoman dynasty. Is there an Ottoman dynasty in this country today? Otherwise, why not talk about education in the national educational community and why not in the native language of democracy, which is now the primary problem of democracy? Because it's still not in the Turkish alphabet today, no ID is given to the child because of the name "x" and "q" and "q" are given to him. There's a reality to be ashamed of, and with a foreign invasion, a language invasion, as if something different had happened in Turkish, rather than chasing after it, an Ottoman love. Now, it's not like they're going to teach Ottoman or anything like that, but let's learn about this business or our history. It's not. From the very top, from the top, we'll do it whether you want to or not. By this despotic understanding, we'll make the citizens dumb. We don't accept that either. And this sexist, this moralist, this moralist attitude, that's what we're dealing with in the context of Mr. Ministry of Culture. A public worker from the last rally informed me, and I'd like to report to Mr. Minister's information that at a recent meeting -- I believe he is -- the Deputy Minister of Strategy Development is waiting for dignity in front of the Prime Minister's office. This is our bureaucrat calling all the officers, like the generals of September 12th. I'll give you two minutes, these, there are complaints about these, there are petitions. I'll never see you together with a boy and a girl and a boy and a girl again. I'll hang it, I'll cut it, I'll chop it. Off you go now. That's how the Ministry of Culture is run, Mr. Secretary. You may not be aware of this, but if you mess with it, you're gonna have to go for it. That's where religiousism, conservativeism, sexist morality comes from. Of course, economics, social life requires a healthy life. You beat up the health worker in front of the House while the health budget was being discussed. Can a man of this country be healthy? Is it possible to offer health to such a citizen? You put everyone on a premium, you said general health insurance. And on top of that, do you know what you're basing your bonus exemption on? To have less than one-third income, which is far below the hunger limit, will be exempted from paying the premium. Dear lawmakers, now again, at the meeting in Goatören, he says that one of our retired uncles said that we used to have so much money in our pockets. Yeah, we were going to the hospital and everything, but now I have an 80 lira, $100 monthly cut in my salary. Mega projects and, of course, mega hospitals. What's going on? It happens to small-time health care companies that happen to small-time manufacturers, small-time tradesmen. Foreign chains, class A monopolized hospitals all over the place. Let's remind the Prime Minister that we've cut those shorts. That's how they siphon the public. My congressman friends know very well when they go to be treated. The drugs, the stuff that's been cut off. Now, here's an application: cancer patient himself with rectum sea diagnosis. He has to get a colostomy and colostomy adapter and a bag, but now that it's part of an unsatisfactory inventory, this citizen has become a victim. The family physicians struck last night. There's no such thing as protective health, dear citizens, worthy Regents. He won't. What is the reality of this budget in terms of health? The total share per person is 20 liras; not 200 liras, not 2,000 liras, not 20,000 liras, 20 liras. Here's how publicist this budget can be, how much prosperity it can carry. Come and see. Of course, don't take out the staff, it's a chore. Yes, the greater the health of society, the greater the health of power. We also need to address the health of power. In particular, when we look at today's operations, it's the government that meets every opposition with a coup paranoia. Yes, now the smallest street movement has shed blood, as if people are being provoked. If you come out, look what happens to you, if blood is spilled, it's on you. A newspaper clipping, our journalist friend, who's been looking into it, you know, October 6th or 8th. 50 of our citizens are dead, mostly Kurdish citizens, mostly members of the People's Democratic Party, fans, sympathizers. They've removed their funerals, they've suffered unwanted incidents, but let's go over it, which gangs have been activated behind them, which provocators, which dark forces have been activated, of course our Home Secretary should enlighten them. This judiciary, this safety mechanism, these safety packages, violating the rights of Kurds, right-seeking workers, young people by interfering here, it's impossible to contain them, to be a healthy society. Look, guys, we're saying that the government, the government, has lost its psychology. Indeed, now, Mr. President is taking down the court year's ceremony over the years for a speech he can't stomach at the opening of the court year. In what kind of democracy does such a thing exist, what healthy society does it have, what kind of citizen do I serve? They were eliminated in the judicial arrangement. What healthy mind, when a young man's trial is seen by the tradesmen, when the court of Ali Ismail (Ishmael) is seen, calls a civil citizen to duty, and the streets are entrusted to you? We know that the people who did this in history are bleeding the world to death. You've made 50 percent of society a reasonable suspect, and tomorrow, of course, when that support is removed from you, so will the others. The solution is not only in democracy, in democracy, in peace, but in democracy, in democracy, in which all citizens are needed, as it is in power's interest. Yeah, let's keep going, we've only got a little bit of time left, but I want to talk about this corruption and how it reflects energy, environmental policies, and the economy is very interested in that. Two areas in particular, where life rights are destroyed: energy, environment. Now, it's called energy need. Does this need energy really exist? It turns out who needs it. Who's doing HES, who's opening thermal power plants, who's sticking their backs on the nuclear power plant? Look, from Eregli to Arhavi, from Thrace to Anamur, all Turkey is in revolt. Why was Soma Yırca olive groves murdered because you tried to contain the creeks, because you opened coal-based thermal plants on fertile farmland? That's the head, that's the mentality. Now, on the other hand, let's talk about this presidential palace spending 700,000 lira a month. Now, now, in Sinop, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry -- which has been begged to build nuclear facilities -- sends to all lawmakers: "Mr. MP, have we asked our people about this nuclear, its benefits; have we used up the renewable energy resources in our country; have we exhausted our water, our sun, our wind? Everyone gives up, and why do we do it? Here is the view of Turkey's environmental policy, the view of energy policy, the shaved green areas. Look, the corruption thing is going to take this power, of course, but you have to answer to those people, you know, when you answer to them. Indeed, those who grow up in fear of God, those who receive this education at a young age, those who have been shaped according to it all their life must at least answer to the public for it. And we know that this budget isn't a public budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We also reject this budget with economic policies, and I invite all of you to fight for a truly public budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0095par0292	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0096par0293	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0095par0294	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0096par0295	In his speech, the preacher is not one of us to eat when his neighbor is hungry. When his neighbor is hungry, he is not one of us. The expression is one of the sheriff's things. It's like a word of honor. He made a statement. We'd like him to apologize.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0097par0296	Mr. President, let me answer you, sir, from where I am.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0095par0297	Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0097par0298	I'll answer from there if you want.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0098par0299	Moreover, at the end of his speech, he spoke of fear of God.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0095par0300	One moment, Mr. Corporate to explain. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0099par0302	Yeah, he says what he wants, so what are they?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0305	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, yes, I would like to make this very clear: He may have taken his source from religious foundations, and you often refer to religion. That's right, I wish the citizens of our country, the whole living community, were like this, so it's not ours to eat when the neighbor's hungry. I mean, no one should stand by and watch this poverty, this hunger, this empty house...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0101par0306	Come on, he needs to rectify the word he used on the sheriff.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0307	But your economic policy, your policy, it's not appropriate.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0102par0308	Mr. Corporate, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0309	Don't mind the words, Mr. Mahir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0103par0310	I'm obsessed with words.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0311	Mr. Mahir, don't worry about it, get to the bottom of it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0103par0312	No, sir, it's an understatement, it's an understatement.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0313	You've exploited 77 million people using those words.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0103par0314	It's an understatement. Come on, you can't underestimate the sheriff.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0315	You've raised this poverty all the way through the 12 years you've been in power...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0103par0316	Come on, you can't underestimate the sheriff.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0317	When you're hungry, we don't sleep full. You can't say that.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0103par0318	Don't take it too far.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0319	In this country, you employ people for a minimum wage of 891 lira.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0104par0320	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0321	You should be ashamed of it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0105par0322	It's not about that, it's not about the word, it's not about the event; it's about you making it up to me.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0323	So do not tread on them. I forbid you to tread on their talk.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0105par0324	You're making this clear.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0100par0325	Let's put an end to the people's beliefs.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0106par0327	Thank you, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0105par0328	Mr. President, for the correction...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0107par0329	Come on, let the AKP people follow the sheriffs first.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0106par0330	Mr. Ünal, you're already talking. What do you want it for, Mr. Ünal?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0105par0331	The preacher used the expression "Tepinme" (Tepinme). So I think you should consider it a tease.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0106par0332	Here you go, Mr. Ünal. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0108par0335	What did he pick on, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0109par0336	Mr. President, we expect the speaker to show the same reaction in his speech as a minister using the word "Bakara" as well. And we await with respect to those who scoff at the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.).
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0106par0337	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0110par0340	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, from December 17th to today -- I'd like to make it clear that a coup attempt...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0109par0341	He's the fall of a gang of thieves, the fall of a gang of thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0110par0342	...where the political extensions...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0109par0343	He's the downfall of a gang of thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0110par0344	...we're clearly witnessing the sequel. No one's gonna...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0111par0345	Bribery isn't called a coup.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0109par0346	He's the downfall of a gang of thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0110par0347	For once, don't twist the words.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0111par0348	Bribery is not called a coup.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0110par0349	For once, don't twist the words.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0111par0350	Bribery and corruption.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0112par0351	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0113par0352	It's the downfall of a gang of thieves. We're gonna celebrate her anniversary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0353	Did the parallelists make December 17th and December 25th or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0115par0354	Is there a bribe or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0355	The prosecutor who made this coup attempt, his armband...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0115par0356	Is there corruption or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0357	...is it all parallel or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0115par0358	That's different. Bribery, corruption, or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0359	A coup attempt by parallelists...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0116par0360	It is the feeling of the minister who lays ahead of Reza.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0115par0361	Why were the safe deposit boxes there?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0362	...you continue to use it here as a political extension; keep going.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0116par0363	It's not like you to defend thieves.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0115par0364	What are the counting machines doing in the bedrooms, counting machines? What are millions of dollars doing in shoe boxes?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0365	Besides, we've always condemned and condemned the compensations made by everyone involved in the use of religious sensibilities.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0117par0366	The more you talk, the more you sink. The more you talk, the more you sink.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0118par0367	In that case, condemn the minister, who calls it a bane, and condemn that woman.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0368	No one can use his expression. If he uses it, as a Muslim, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll react.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0119par0370	You're still using the sheriff!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0371	You guys go ahead with the corruption operation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0119par0372	That's no way to take care of a sheriff.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0114par0373	Politically, you will continue the work of the parallelists legally. History records it. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0120par0376	Yeah, in order or in order to lift a finger? Mr. Baluken, please. What do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0121par0379	The MP who collected all God's qualities still sits there. Where's your sensitivity?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0122par0380	Mr. President, Mr. Ünal has assessed the speech of our fellow MP speaking on behalf of our group as an extension of parallel structures. If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0120par0381	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Two minutes of teasing, I promise.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0123par0383	Where's that MP? Why didn't you react? Why are you silent?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0385	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The frame that our speaker is expressing here is very clear. In his philosophy, the philosophy of the essence of Islamic religion is expressed. We don't think it's fair to say that it's not the sheriff's doing, but it's a different way to put it. When your neighbor is hungry in the sheriff's office, it is not ours to eat. The expression is clear, and we expect you to take a sensitive approach to it. If you have such a high sensitivity, we would expect you to have the same sensitivity to the Koran surahs, the Koran verses, and the words that make fun of them. (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP and CHP) (Applause from the Peoples' Democratic Party' Democratic Party (HDP)
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0125par0388	What do you have to say for yourself, Mr. Mahir?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0389	Mr. President, there are no simultaneous precedents.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0390	... or that he has the qualities of the Prophet. We would expect you to show the same sensitive approach to the leader.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0391	You can't set Sumisali as a precedent here. We're talking about something here. We'll discuss that as well.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0392	On the other hand, we, the People's Democratic Party, have made a motion to this Parliament from day one.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0393	We're talking about something here.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0394	We are the first party to express the fight against parallel structure and anti-corruption.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0395	You can't use Suimisali as a precedent.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0127par0396	If you hadn't spoken then, Mahir Ünal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0397	If you had listened to us, from day one, you would have set up a research commission in this Parliament on the fight against parallels and fighting corruption, based on a working mechanism common to all political parties, and today you would have brought up whose statements are right and whose statements are wrong, in front of the public. That's what you get for running away from it today.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0398	There's nothing wrong with us. We didn't run away from anything. The investigation commission's been established, and they're still working on it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0399	What you need to do today is take the same serious basis for both the fight against the parallel and the fight against corruption.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0126par0400	But you're going to live with it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0124par0401	And the frame that our congressman is expressing is very clear. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0128par0404	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0129par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0128par0406	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0129par0407	I want it for the same reason. There's bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0128par0408	Because of the bullying, for the same reason, I promise you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0130par0411	You've been walking around with the parallel for ten years.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0131par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, the word is not appropriate, so I'll start with him first, but beyond that, let me make it very clear...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0132par0416	We can't hear the messenger, Mr. President, we can't hear the messenger. Look over there.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0133par0417	Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0132par0418	Reboot him.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0419	There hasn't been a single incident here. Many, many such events have occurred here. I mean, he's a congressman, and then he doesn't mean anything to apologize. We have a leader who has all the qualities of God. Even if the person who came forward apologizes, there was no response from the person who was responsible for it, he did not promise to say, "What the hell are you doing, man?"
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0135par0420	He agrees.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0136par0421	Oh, come on, you know he's not.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0422	On the other hand, sir, touching him is worship. There was no response to being called. It's also...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0137par0423	We are condemned by whoever he says we are.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0424	Oh, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0137par0425	But our friend didn't say it, he didn't say it like that.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0426	...he didn't judge it...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0138par0427	Who didn't?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0137par0428	Don't take politics so seriously.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0429	...and it was Recep Tayyip Erdogan who was dealing with it at that time.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0138par0430	I was told it was wrong.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0431	He made it clear.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0138par0432	It wasn't made clear either.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0433	They have their own video chats.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0139par0434	Damn him, even if he said "Bakara" to me.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0140par0435	Dear Metiner, please. Listen to me.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0436	The man who called it a reel fell the same way...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0139par0437	Damn him if he did.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0438	...but there was no mention of it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0141par0439	Tell him to give up his troubles! What do you say to us, Mehmet Metiner? Go to him and say, God damn you!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0440	On the other hand, you call it parallel construction.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0142par0441	There are people next to the green. There are those who stand next to him.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0442	Brother, you've been with parallel construction for 12 years, and if they're guilty, you're harboring it. Because you brought it to the highest level of the police force, you brought it to the highest level of bureaucracy.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0143par0443	We just left it for you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0144par0444	Judge, you brought the prosecutor.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0445	Other than that, you brought him to the top of the law. Well, what did you say you wanted? Also, did you open the school when you opened it, and we supported you. It was the Prime Minister at that time, the current President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0145par0447	Are we going to make these people unplug their criminal records, like the old government did?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0146par0448	You're doing the Allahu Akbar of tagging!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0134par0449	Again, you said that we've opened university to you. Now, since you were, if you're co-conspirators, if they're guilty, you're guilty, you're guilty, you've got to have the same investigation done about you, because you've been harboring them.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0147par0451	We leave this network of betrayal to you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit03spe0148par0452	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0148par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 30th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue our fifth round of round talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the 4th speaker, Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0149par0046	Mr. President, dear friends, I would like to express our party's views on the Ministry of Culture budget, but of course, culture is a very broad concept. It's a concept that embraces, embraces, expresss all of the human relationships in this society, even in this world. It involves communication and its culture, as a matter of fact, whether it's a social relationship or not. I think it would be appropriate to start talking about it at a time when arrangements for our communication environment are becoming increasingly violent. In recent days, it is impossible to say the right thing about the progress in Turkey without taking a stand for operations launched by government forces against the public media, which have actually occupied the public for two days, and we can't ignore that. We're basically on the side of freedom of press and expression and journalism deontology, and we're on the side of defending it. In this framework, we feel that regardless of their opinion and opinion, it is an indispensable principle for journalists to carry out their work without any fear, without any pressure. Therefore, we have no doubt that a police operation against Zaman daily and its units was a heavy shadow that had been reduced to freedom of expression, which had evolved almost like a martial law attack. At this point, we are not saying anything about the quality of journalism of both the Zaman newspaper and the community press, nor are we saying anything about their political opinion. It is only for us to say that the wrong-doers have been wronged, though they be far away from Us, even though they be our enemies. An unjust, unfair attack is not in place. This has nothing to do with freedom of expression, protecting freedom of expression. Of course, we know and know as well as anyone else, we felt and felt in our skin and in our consciousness, the unjust attacks and criticism of this community. We're dealing directly with the criminalization of our party, and we felt it in our skin. We know that this mind is behind all operations where Kurdish journalists are arrested. We know that the police chiefs of this community are behind the prosecution against Ahmet Şık and Nedim Sener. We know all of this, but it doesn't change anything. That's no reason to arrest journalists and stay under arrest for journalists. Therefore, persecution is essential, and pressure is essential. And I'd like to finish by reminding you that freedom of the press, justice will one day be needed for everyone or otherwise, one day, everyone will eventually get to taste the stick of the Justice and Development Party's power as long as it remains in power. Joining that bat doesn't mean they have to be judged unfairly today. We are not going to transfer our account to the Justice and Development Party to be questioned about the attacks against us, the smears, the brandings against us; we answer them on our own grounds, on the political floor, on the basis of justice, on the basis of justice, and on the basis of honest journalism, on the basis of responsible journalism. That's why we don't expect favors from anyone, and we're asking them not to count on us in this conflict. Sooner or later, we realize this is a war between the wrong-doers. However, we are not in a position to say that the one in power, the one in power, the one in charge, the one in charge, the one in charge, the one in charge of financial control, the one who operates around the law to intimidate his opponents with it, and no one can interfere with it. We are not in a position to say that they are both equal in terms of a despotic administration that says, "We are going to discriminate between the one at the bottom and the one at the top." Therefore, I would like to say that we will be following this process until the release of journalists in custody immediately, the end of the siege to the media, the end of the fiscal siege to other broadcast organs, and there will be no one left in prisons for their opinion. My dear friends, the budget for the Ministry of Culture -- as I just said -- is actually very large. Turkey's material and spiritual life and past material and spiritual history have a wide range of definitions that do not leave any elements of its culture out. And we're not just talking about culture, we're talking about the Ministry of Tourism. So, when we look at the issue in this scale, it must be very strange that the Ministry of Culture has only a share in the entire budget for five percent of the entire budget, because, on the other hand, it is also the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which is the latest figure that I can find -- 2002 -- was 3.7 per cent of the total revenues of tourism revenues in Turkey, and 35 per cent of the foreign trade deficit was closed by revenues from tourism. 19.2% of export revenues were obtained from tourism. So it's virtually impossible to explain, but when we look at the budget, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has actually handed over an important part of its work to the Ministry of Diyanet Affairs and the Ministry of Education, a ministry that monitors human life, which includes all our material, spiritual, and spiritual areas. Given the will to transfer these limited jobs to the private sector, to be marketed and centralized and to be connected to the government in the works of the Turkish Art Agency, it is actually easy to explain this weakness of the Ministry budget. I would like to point out to the Turkish Art Foundation that today, as the sole art and cultural event supported by public funds, the State Theatres, State Opera and Ballet, and one of the most important jobs of the Ministry of Culture, when this process is complete, is that it is clear that the City Theatre will be completely under government control and will now be removed from the autonomous structure they have, and that all the theatre and opera artists, all the people who argue that art should be autonomous, independent of power, objective of power, object to this bill. The work of public officials who object to this bill is being terminated one by one. At the beginning of what is expected of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, if we see Turkish culture as a plural culture, a multicultural culture, if we consider it not a singular culture, but not just Turkish culture, we expect the Ministry of Culture to have an activity in this plurality, but we face very striking situations in the decisions made regarding cultural status of the Ministry of Culture. After being registered as the cultural heritage, the cultural heritage, the cultural presence and place of worship, and the objections of the mufti and others who did not like it, the mosque of Mustard Village was finally registered as the mosque. In this way, the Ministry of Culture has actually been exposed to the one-type process, in fact, during the ministry of our Minister of Culture Omar Çelik, the ministry of our Minister of Culture, in which Turkey, the peoples and cultures living in Turkey have faced the same thing. However, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is not the first and only job of regional directors to protect cultural assets, but during the Minister's ministry. As you all well know, it is the head of a board that allows the construction of the large, heavy debates of the Ataturk Forest Farm, and the 600 square metres of historical status and 800,000 square metres of natural status for building the building that is now being completed as the Prime Minister's Palace of the presidency. Now, maybe these numbers don't mean very much to you, what does that mean, 6,000 square meters? If you think a football field is 7,000 square meters, then it's an area of natural status, the area the size of a 100 football field, and a historical site close to it, it's been built and destroyed by the Ministry of Culture. I don't think the Minister of Culture would know that it's all illegal, that it's all fun. That's what it takes to be Minister of Culture. If you don't have that much culture, it would be better if you didn't do the Ministry. As I was saying earlier, it's understandable that the Ministry has no objection to the decline of the budget of the Ministry of Culture, becoming increasingly narrowed down, because its activities are being narrowed down consciously. Ten years ago, the number of public libraries belonging to the Ministry of Culture was 1,367, and in 2012, the number of libraries fell to 1,112, and 321 libraries were transferred to local governments, and then closed. Of course, compared with the growing population and the number of citizens who benefit from the library, we can see that in 2005, there were about 20 million 706,000 citizens who took advantage of the library, and in 2012, there were about 10 to 15 percent increase in our population, but there were over 1 million people who took advantage of libraries, 19 million, 545,000 people entered the libraries, and they came out. So, this shows us very clearly that our Ministry of Culture and Tourism has become an increasingly dysfunctional, dysfunctional, non-visual ministry of social culture. In the process of taking control of the state theaters, perhaps the private theaters will be looked at in this framework, market lovers. However, last year's 4 million 265,000 Turkish lira grants were only available for the special 227 theatres. Let's think about what this means together; since a 5 - square - square - square - foot villa in İstanbul is worth $1,200,000, that means 3.5 villas is the amount of money that Turkey will be earmarked for all its private, amateur, unpaid theatres. Under the circumstances, it is not difficult to understand that the Ministry of Culture, in fact, has been tasked with handing over culture to other institutions of the state as it is. On the other hand, I find it odd that the staffing of the Ministry of Culture, the people we can't be sure have anything to do with culture, such as when a wrestling referee was brought to the administration of Istanbul City Theatres, the zoo manager was appointed to head a cultural institution again. I don't see anything odd about what they used to do, what's weird about being a wrestling referee or what's wrong with a zoo director? It's just an argument about a driver's license. It's extremely difficult to build a relationship between a wrestling referee and a theater manager if wrestling isn't a theater. I guess we can't compare wrestling to theater, there's a real fight, there's a real fight, there's no acting, there's no wrestling, there's no art. We express this objection in the face of the need for all of this to be entrusted to its people willingly. On the other hand, when we look at Turkey's multicultural structure and the solution process, we may think that a very important job has been taken down by the Ministry of Culture. We'd expect neglected, pushed underground, outcast, outcast cultures to stand out now because of such a process, to step forward, to give them resources, to wait. However, our government, which has expressed a loud noise that the Ottoman works have been brought to light, has not really shown the necessary interest in Ottoman works. In a place where the ancient Ottoman archives sank, it is clear that other cultures would be completely neglected. We haven't heard, that Turkey's Arab people, Turkey's Kurdish people, Turkey's Ezidi people, Turkey's Laz, Çerkek, any cultural heritage of the people of Pomak need to be betrayed by the Ministry of Culture. When we look at restorations, what we see is pathetic. As all of the resources for all restorations go to Islamic monuments, we can see that no funding for the restoration of other cultures' material assets has been set aside, or that they are being pushed out more and more. In this framework, it is quite possible to say that cultural affairs are essentially handed over to the Ministry of National Education and to the chairman of Dianet Affairs, which the Justice and Development Party has come to impose ideological orientations. Other cultural activities have been left entirely to the citizens. However, I would like to remind you that it is almost impossible for citizens to carry a full historical burden on their shoulders with their narrow, limited budgets, limited resources. If the government is going to do anything, this is where it's going to work. It is needed for any member of the community to re-create its own culture in a continuum that will connect with the past and future of the people, not with the work that some members of the community can't do on their own, and not with profit. If he's not gonna do that, just pull his tail out. Then don't call us parallels when we do our own work. We're not going parallel; we're going to start building a new culture, we're going to do it with our own hands, our own power, our own dynamic, and then you're going to bite your fingers off, you're going to take your hat off in the face of culture. I wish you all a good day, goodbye.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0150par0067	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the first speaker is Faruk Ilk, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0151par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Ministry of Interior's 2015 budget. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Mr. President, the Ministry of Interior serves our citizens in a wide range from the population to the local authorities, especially in every aspect of their lives, from the administration of provinces to immigration policies and support of NGOs. Our ministry, based on human rights and freedoms through the Police General Directorate, the General Command and Coast Guard Command, which operates security services, is primarily aimed at preventing the crime by providing the security units of the entire community with the maximum benefit of technological projects and resources carried out by our Security Directorate MOBESE and Gendarme General Command. Our ministry launched the 2013-2015 Anti-organized Crime Action Plan to make the fight against organised crime systematic and effective on 2 September 2013. Through planned operations against organized crime organizations, he has neutralized many of these organisations and has strengthened once again our citizen's trust in the state. The Society-backed Police Project is being implemented in 81 counties in order to enable the fight against crime, to ensure the participation and support of the community. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the importance of our governments in fighting terrorism is also seen in paying the damages of our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism. In this context, our government is mobilising all its resources in the fight against terrorism, taking every precaution to ensure the safety of our citizens' lives and property, to strengthen the unity and unity of our country. Under the Law on the Compensation of Damages From Anti-Terrorism and Terrorism, the losses of our citizens are being paid for due to the actions carried out in the fight against terrorism. To date, citizens who have been harmed by terrorism have been paid a total of 3 billion 283 million liras. As ministry, as part of the Returning to the Village and Rehab Project, conditions for sustainable living have been established in places where social, economic infrastructure is needed to facilitate the return of those of our citizens who have had to migrate from places they live in our Eastern Anatolia area with terror and security concerns. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the EC PARTY is the address of maintaining the integrity of the country, protection, brotherhood, peace, trust, and co-existence. He considers and takes every precaution as a basis for the removal of all negative paintings meant for our common destiny. It's the need to be a great country and a representative of an ancient civilization. In this context, the AK PARTY is the name of the period when custodys quickly were purged, which was liquidating the people's will. The AK PARTY is the name of the time when the forces of destruction were attacked and brought to justice by revoking and revoking the tradition of religion. THE AK PARTY is the name of decades, especially when cities that began to transform into villages in the country began to form their city identity rapidly for the first time. The AK PARTY is the name of the period when our villages began to turn into cities through development agencies, particularly the CSI Project. AK PARTI is the name of an era of extraordinary circumstances, unsolved murders, tortures, road cuts, night raids, denial, denial, assimilation, where history is thrown into the garbage can, reminiscent of no return. AK PARTY is the name of an era in this country where no one is a slave or master, where all people are being treated equally like the teeth of a comb. The EC PARTY did so, despite the essential causes of problem geography, despite internal bureaucratic resistance, despite the resistance of political and capital elites. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have come to this day, ridding Turkey and our citizens of ancient horrors and threats since 2002, such as the threat of division and fear, Kurdish threat and fear, the threat of Flame and fear. Before I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, since I am a lawmaker of the origin of the property management, it has been requested that we give 6,400 indicators to our managers of the property, which is the cornerstone of the Turkish administration, which is in charge of the 1st class.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0152par0081	Why don't you do it? You've been in power for 12 years. Why won't you give me 6,400? Why won't you give it to me? Make sure the cops get 3,600 indicators.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0153par0082	Faruk, let's give it to him together.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0151par0083	On behalf of myself and my group, I wish that the Ministry of Interior's 2015 budget would bring blessings to our country and our nation, Mr. President, and I salute the esteemed MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0154par0085	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the second speaker is Sermin Balık, Elazig MP. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0155par0089	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group over our Home Secretary's 2015 budget. I salute the General Assembly and our great nation. One of our country's most influential ministry of tradition, the Ministry of the Interior, performs important tasks that are the cause of the state's existence, such as providing security and peace throughout our country, guaranteeing that our citizens can use their basic rights and freedoms freely and in a comfortable environment. The strategy plan 2015-2019, the second strategic plan, which regulates the five-year future of the Interior Ministry, which implements the 2010-2014 Strategic Plan, is also prepared. The purpose of this strategic plan is to enable internal security, immigration and border management services within the framework of human rights, to ensure peace and security, to increase speed and quality in the services of property and local governments, to support civil society activities, to use information technologies effectively, efficiently and safely in the service presentation, to increase speed and quality in ministry services. The Ministry of Interior has also shown that the strategic management system is firmly implemented within the framework of strategic plan, performance programme and operational reports, in order to ensure effective and efficient functioning of the public services it offers. In the lives of our citizens, e-state projects that have been implemented and run by the Ministry of Interior have also been provided with significant ease in the lives of our citizens. The MERNIS Project, the cornerstone of e-government transition, is carrying out important projects such as the identity number of the Republic of Turkey and the address registration system. These projects, which have been brought to life and have been used by other public institutions and institutions, have freed our citizens from the obligation to collect and declare many documents, as well as past official transactions, which have been handled within minutes, such as curfews, have become history. Our new and modern identity cards, which have recently come to public attention, will soon be distributed to all our citizens. These documents have now been handed over to our citizens' addresses, which are no longer required to wait for days for vehicle licenses and passports. Mr. President, the valued MPs are one of the important projects conducted by our interior ministry, the 112 Emergency Call Centers Project, which is currently under way. As in many countries around the world, this project aims to gather emergency call numbers under a single number, and to implement electronic systems to intervene in emergencies in a much shorter time. As part of the project, our call centers have been activated in 12 counties. The Ministry's E-Internal Software Development and Execution Project makes the public's own functioning, the private sector and citizens' business and transactions with the state maximum. The E-IAD Project is a change project that allows the Ministry's central units, governorships, subsidiaries and municipal private administrations to conduct business and transactions in electronic environment and share information with other public institutions and institutions. In this way, our citizens with jobs and procedures have been given great ease, while the governorships and sub-primes in the country have been allowed to lead the project of Turkey. The Interior Ministry also implements policies and strategies produced by our government in many areas in order to combat terrorism in a multidimensional way. He thanks all of the Interior Ministry staff who work for our citizens to lead a life of peace and security, free of fear and anxiety, wishing that 2015's budget would be a blessing to the Ministry of Interior, to our country and to our nation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0156par0099	Thank you. His third speech was Oğuz Khan Koksal, Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0157par0103	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the Security General Directorate budget in the Central Management Budget Bill of 2015. I salute the High Council and our beloved nation. Our police work day and night to ensure public order and security in the country. There have been countless martyrs for it. I hereby ask God's mercy on our martyrs, his condolences to his relatives, and the health of our veterans. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the basic presence of the state for an individual is to ensure the safety of their lives and property first. It is also impossible to perform other public services in one country without public order and security. With that understanding, the EC PARTY government has been given great importance and support for the peace and trust of the country. The result of this support is that today, among our geography, even the most reliable countries in the world, our country has entered. As a result, when we look for foreign capital, international capital, and outsiders, one of their preferences is peace and trust in the country. In this context, no expense has been spared in fighting crime because the social cost of crimes is far greater than the cost of preventing it. At this point, the Security Directorate and our government have made various legal arrangements, and under these regulations, our General Directorate has contributed greatly to the peace and security of our country by taking a number of projects and measures. In view of this approach, police and public relations with the understanding of civic-oriented security services have been removed to the highest level, mechanisms for preventing crime have been run and prevention efforts have been conducted before it becomes a crime. At this point, a community-sponsored police service has also been conducted, which has been a huge success and is at the expense of our citizens. Co-works with domestic violence departments established by the establishment of narcotics branch directorates, to ensure that our children who go to school can be more secure education, traffic inspections are activated by the implementation of the Highway Traffic Safety Action Plan, and especially by security teams and lightning teams in order to prevent criminal activity in areas of the public. These are some of the services I count. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are fighting crime in respect of the principles of the state of law and human rights as the EC PARTI government, while in the other hand, it is most effective to continue to deal with torture in accordance with the law, zero tolerance sensitivity. My fellow lawmakers, our police force, which will celebrate its 170th anniversary in 2015, has served under its government since it was founded, in the service of its nation, as a feared dream of the lawless, as a port of refuge for the oppressed, with great success and sacrifice. Our law enforcement department has established MOBESE systems to prevent crime from using advanced technology with the resources required by its age, especially with the intensive support of our government in recent years, in our eighty provinces -- primarily our tourist zones -- and many crimes have been prevented by these systems. In short, when we look back on the years, let alone a law enforcement agency with no gas to put it in its car, 37, 000 vehicles today have come to an organization between 0 and 5 percent of the age of 0 and therefore have been supported by law enforcement in all kinds of technologies. With a change of mind, our outposts, our police stations, are equipped with cameras, and they begin to provide transparent service. At this point, dialogue with our citizens has been raised to the highest level of cooperation. And while we're taking this out, we're going to go to other countries... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the number of citizens per officer is very few in our country, but the services are being conducted in the best possible way. In that respect, I'd like to thank the police department for working so selflessly here in front of you once again. In this regard, our General Directorate has a budget of 17 billion 623 million 719,000 Turkish liras. Of course, this budget may not be enough, but as we look back on the years, there's been an increasing trend every year. This is where I once again express my belief that this support will be increased and continued in years to come.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0158par0113	What about his indicators, Congressman?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0157par0114	I wish you all the best in the 2015 budget.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0159par0116	Thank you. Fourth speaker Mehmet Metiner, Adıyaman MP. Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. We've seen some very interesting allegations today, and I'd like to answer a few of them with your permission. First and foremost, I'd like to point out that talking about an operation of government forces to the media of the congregation -- in a nail -- is a big lie, a lie. And to tell the press that censorship, pressure, intimidation policies are from the government, it's just a bunch of bullshit. There is an ongoing investigation into the parallel crime ring with the ability to judge. May I remind you that everyone must await the outcome of this investigation in their right mind. This operation, yes, is aimed at the parallel crime ring, and interestingly, the extensions of the parallel are able to make an alliance when it comes to the AK PARTI hostility, aligning on the same front. It's amazing to see how those who call it an F-type until yesterday are aligned behind the F-type class today by calling it the F-type, calling it the F-type.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0161par0122	Where were you until yesterday?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0123	If you don't know how the parallel gang put a blind teacher and 122 other people in prison for fabricating false evidence, find out. Also, find out if you do not know how journalist-writer Mustafa Kaplan was imprisoned for the next ten years as part of this terrorist organization.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0161par0124	What did they want and you didn't give them?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0125	After the operation to Oda TV, Zaman newspaper said: "Is this journalism??"
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0162par0126	What did you do then?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0127	My fellow lawmakers, let's see if we can't act with the logic of an accessory to judicial action against the parallel criminal network. No one has the privilege of committing a crime, no one has the privilege of committing a crime, my friends.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0162par0128	Including Recep Erdogan?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0129	I'd like to say a few things about the solution process, and I was actually going to talk about the solution process today, but I was surprised to see how this parallel-building love, parallel gang, is being used so much. Your parallel's political...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0163par0130	Mr. Metiner, you were best friends with them, you were best friends with them, parallel structure.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0131	Now that we've given them to you, you can use each other from top to bottom.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0163par0133	No, it's all yours!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0164par0134	This is a confession.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0135	The solution process is not a process of dissolution. The solution process is not a process of giving, a process of non-disclosure negotiation. If you're going to talk about one, we say that instead of death, we give life and politics instead of weapons. We doubt the nationalism and nationalism of those who are disturbed by it. The claim that we negotiated terrorism is a lie. We're conducting a negotiation to silence weapons, not negotiate terrorism, not to strengthen the hand of terror. We want to stress that through speculations such as autonomy, general amnesty, the process of solutions is wanted to be sabotaged on both fronts, and that a partnership in this matter is remarkable.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0165par0136	There are those who share with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0160par0137	One of our fellow MPs said that even though our mothers are crying, we will not give them a pebble. That, my friends, is the purpose of the solution process. Neither our mothers will cry nor our country will be divided. We're not just gonna give away our pebbles, but we're gonna take away our mothers' tears, guys. The country is divided by the deception of openings. Let's stop threatening our social peace through division paranoia. The solution process has only one goal, and we're trying to reintegrate a country that's on the verge of division. This is the name of a brotherhood and integration project, but I want to stress that the solution process can only be achieved in public order. Anyone who tries to disrupt public order, knowingly or not, is carrying water into the mill of those who wait in ambush to sabotage the solution process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe the Turkish community and the Kurds of this country will give a meaningful answer. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0166par0142	Yes, thank you. The fifth speaker is Salih Husband, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0167par0146	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies have made a commitment to the budget of our General Command as part of the 2015 Central Management Budget Bill talks. I salute the grand jury. With law and order to maintain public order, trafficking, banning, stalking and coercion, providing external protections of criminal execution institutions and detention houses, carrying out judicial procedures, doing the duties of law and order, and performing important tasks in the state and community life, we are a dedicated and selfless organization. Research and development by our General Command continues rapidly in order to perform the tasks we count above. During our rule, all police stations and police stations were literally modernized, transparent. With the fact that these centers have windows for our security units open to society, all personnel have been retrained, redefined how to treat the incoming citizen, all holding cells have been set in line with universal human rights standards. The point in which the successful security policies of our government have been implemented is also appreciated by our citizens. For, according to the results of the TÜİK's Research on Life Pleasure, the area in which our citizens are most satisfied was 79.4 per cent of the public service. As our prime minister stated in the 62nd Government Programme, it is envisioned to ensure and increase the level of satisfaction and security based on human rights and universal values, taking into account the safety of institutions and property, the delicate balance between freedom and security. Mr. President, I'd like to share with you a brief piece of information about the Gendarme Integrated, Communications and Information System, whose short name is JEMUS. The JEMUS Project (JEMUS) was enabled by rapid co-ordination and management of police and security services between the gendarmes and their units, especially in our cities where the system is active, ambulances began to serve patients faster in natural disasters. In this sense, our Ministry of Health is also involved in the project and is scheduled to complete the system nationwide by the end of 2023. Our General Command, which is a member of the Council of European and Mediterranean Gendarmes and Military Status Corps, established abroad to carry out the sharing of information and experience abroad, is actively carrying out its work within this organization, contributing to the presence of observer members in the European Police Force, which was formed in 2010, in order to ensure the dignity of the crisis zones. In addition, the Eurasian Military Statul Corps, which aims to change information and experience between military law enforcement forces in Central Asia and Caucasus countries, continues its efforts to create between Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyztan and Kazakhstan. Given globalization and economic, cultural, technological interactions in our time of knowledge, it is imperative that the gendarmes have a level of strength and staff structure that will be able to respond to needs in order to accomplish the tasks given to him in a better and more efficient way. In this scope, the general budget of our General Command, which is responsible for 93 per cent of Turkey's area, will raise the quality of service available to the general staff of 2015 to higher levels of efficiency, having more professional and trained personnel, becoming flexible enough to deal with crime and guilt, equipped with modern equipment and materials, co-operation and co-ordination with other agencies at an international level. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our 2015 budget to be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0168par0154	Thank you. Sixth speaker Mehmet Altay, Valedictorian. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0169par0158	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget for the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security of the 2015 Central Management Budget Act. I hereby salute you and our beloved nation. My fellow lawmakers, the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, are an institution established during the period of our governments to maintain permanent public order, to develop policies and strategies on the fight against terrorism and to ensure co-ordination among relevant institutions and organisations. One of the main tasks of our state is to prepare environments that allow individuals to use their basic rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the Constitution and by law, in safety, free from fear and anxiety. Therefore, freedom and security must never be compromised for safety. We must never ignore that security and freedom are not opposites and contrasts, but also that there are two important values that are essential to one another. The national security threat facing our country is headed by a problem of terrorism. Projects, social research, analysis of socioeconomic, cultural and psychological factors in the fight against terrorism have been under way since the establishment of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security to get rid of this country's most important problem and to remove it from its agenda. Studies also evaluated democraticisation processes and the effects, are doing a lot of research, development projects and field research on the study of conflict zones and solution processes around the world, social integration and social participation. Dear lawmakers, as part of the steps towards democratisation in the past 12 years, the process of resolving the terror problem and establishing lasting peace has been implemented. The Law on Ending Terror 6551, which brought the framework to the resolution process, and Enhancing Social Integration, has been passed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The final goal of the resolution of our country's 12 years of democraticisation and normalisation is to end terrorism without any compromise from public order and security and strengthen the national unity. As long as we reach this goal, it is important that all parts of society take possession, civil initiatives, and different ideas participate in the process and contribute. In this context, the Committee of the Mental People, consisting of authors, academics, artists and leaders of opinion, was formed. The delegation carried out an important task by ensuring the healthy functioning of the solution process and holding individual talks and meetings in the region, recording the public's support and recommendations for the process. Organizations are organised by the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. There is no doubt that those who are uncomfortable with the process of solutions will be. Those who do not want peace, peace, brotherhood in Turkey, those who can't swallow the economy from its shackles and its rise, and those who want to cut it down, as they did yesterday. Recently, there are some who are trying to form some kind of dilemma between public order and the solution process. For whatever reason, the process will be carried out with certainty and determination, no matter who tries to sabotage it. Because for us, this is the process of rebuilding the brotherhood law and soul of Turkey, Kurd, Laz., Arab. The epic struggle in the Battle of Çanakkale and Salvation. With this spirit, it is only possible for our country to become a global force, free of its shackles in the brotherhood climate. With these feelings and thoughts, in the hope that the solution process will be successful, I wish you all the best in our country and our nation in 2015, on the way to the great Turkey, which has reached its goals of 2023.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0170par0165	Thank you. Seventh speaker, Iconian MP Mustafa Balakcı. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Pumpkin.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0171par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the Coast Guard Command Budget within our Ministry of Interior. I salute your high council. Throughout history, Turkish peoples among the world's nations have established states that have always been a long-lived, powerful security agency, working hard for the safety of their state and the people living in it. As a result of historical lessons, it was understood that the safety of the coastal countries should be provided from the most distant distance, not from their homeland, so, in 1886, cordon units were formed in order to conduct security and coastal protection services in our naval borders during the Ottoman Empire. With the importance of this organization growing over time, in 1982, our Coast Guard was established, particularly in terms of fishing, oil exploration, tourism relations, in order to research and protect living-life natural resources and products, and to transform them into economic values, as it is necessary to establish a marine security force that is fit for today's conditions, which can easily pass through war and emergency situations. The Coast Guard Command, which prioritizes life and property security on our shores, about three times the length of our land borders, is able to respond to the requirements for the border security of the European Union, located at 66 bases, ports and residential sites, mobile, radar, helicopters and aircraft, as an expert in the security of many countries around us. In addition to Turkey's task of securing security in the surrounding seas, the Coast Guard Command, modelled among the European Union countries, focused on its top human duty to search and rescue from the sea, saving an average of 1,500 lives each year and recently over 10,000 people in the fight against irregular migration and trafficking. In addition, in many areas, such as helping with natural disasters, hunting for illegal water products, and fighting marine pollution, it is a general law enforcement force, which lives with our people in uniform and posture. Our country's vision of the next 2023 shows that economic and political developments in our region and our surrounding seas show us that as countries, we need to increase our activity, our determination, and our presence in the sea. The Coast Guard Command has been working day and night to do its best to carry out law enforcement, control and control duties, which are now in the service of 13 ministries, with its current military and private structure. When we hit numbers of activities carried out by our Coast Guard Command from the beginning of 2014, the image is clear: 45,328 ships have been deployed in the Coast Guard boots to be checked, including 12,727 ships, boats, individuals, businesses, and operations. Our Coast Guard Command has some important projects to run recently. One of these projects is Project Coast Watch Radar. Besides, the Coast Guard Battle System Project is one of the most important projects he's run in the same way. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, issues such as Turkey's geopolitical position and energy transfer lines are deepening the scope of the current duties of the Coast Guard Command and shaping the field of responsibility, and the growing strength of this institution is proudly followed by all of us. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, as it is known, this year's 741st Vuslat Anniversary of Mazlana is under way. Our ceremonies, which began on December 7th, will continue until the 17th. As an Iconian MP, I welcome all our MPs and present members to these ceremonies, and salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0172par0178	Thank you. The eighth speaker is Abdurrahim Akdağ, Mardin MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0173par0182	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the immigration administration's 2015 budget. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, Turkey has faced significant migration and refugee trends in history and continues to remain because of its geographical and strategic position. In recent years, Turkey's growing economic and political power has been a source of attraction for our country's migration movements. Turkey has become a target country, as well as a transit country in international immigration movements. Thus, the government's General Directorate of Immigration Administration was established during the period of our government to implement policy and strategy on the area of immigration in which our country's immigration and asylum is important. The institution's main task will be to monitor developments in irregular migration, implementing the necessary measures and developing strategies in fighting irregular migration. There are also five objectives for the 2015-2019 period: providing security and peace of mind in domestic security, increasing speed and quality in local services, supporting civil society activities, effective use of information and technology, increasing quality as ministry. Dear lawmakers, hundreds of thousands of people who fled from conflicts in neighbouring countries had to emigrate to our country to save their lives. Many refugees are also known to want to cross over Turkey to Europe. So far, 1,617,000 people from Syria have come to our country, spending around $4.6 billion as government for our brothers and sisters. Hatay, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Kilis, Mardin, Kahramanmarash, Osmaniye, Adıyaman, Adana and Malatya are also providing training, health and other needs by hosting 20 tents and 224,640 Syrian brothers in six container cities. A total of 19,740 Ezidi arrived in Mardin, Şırnak, Batman, Şanlıurfa, Siirt and Diyarbakır, where 1,50,000 liras were offered to Şırnak Governorate, and 117 tents were sent to Diyarbakır. 6.610 Ezidi has been placed in the housing centers in these provinces. Turkey has extended its help to the victims who were displaced in the war environment in Iraq. Along with institutions in our government, NGOs, professional and private organisations have been sent 624 trucks and 72.5 million liras worth of aid. Turkey is the country that is now from Kobani, from Şengal, Bayırbucak, and the country that has been visiting the immigrants without distinction from Kurd, Arab, Turkmen, Ezidi. When we looked at history, we welcomed about 300,000 Jews who immigrated from Spain in 1492. 700,000 from Crimea, 600,000 from northern Caucasus, 500,000 from 93, 500,000 immigrants from the Balkans, 5,000 Afghans from the Russian occupation, and 5,000 from Afghanistan from the Gulf War 1991. As an AK PARTY, we didn't ask for the identity of the underdog or the oppressor. We've always stood by the oppressed in the face of the tyrant. We've done things inside and outside that no one can afford, we'll continue to make peace and peace for ancient history. Dear lawmakers, the budget of our Immigration Administration General Directorate is estimated at 43.19 per cent higher than the previous year and 179 million 800,000 Turkish liras. As part of the Return to the Village Project, 190 million liras have been sent to the provinces so far. It is estimated to use $20m in grants in 2015. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with these thoughts and feelings, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation with the wish of our budget for 2015 to bring blessings to our country and all our people.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0174par0192	Thank you. The ninth speaker, Ahmet Salih Dal, is a member of the Church. Here you go, Mr. Dal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0175par0196	Mr. President, I have received word on the budget of our Department of Immigration General Directorate, which belongs to our Ministry of Interior. I salute you all. Because of its geographical and strategic position, our country has also faced significant migration and asylum raids in the past and continues to remain. In our geography, we have a tradition of being a 1,000-year-old society of compassion that opens its doors to immigrants, protects those in need, is the voice of the homeless, the voice of the oppressed and the oppressed around the world, and is trying to help them, and is respected by the world's public. The Foreign and International Protection Act is a manifestation of our tradition. With the growing economic and political power of our country in recent years, our country has become a global force, not a country that shuts itself down, but a force that can raise its head and intervene in the events surrounding it, who can think about foreign policy and listen to it in our geography. At the same time, our country has become the object of attraction for immigration and asylum, becoming more than a destination for European countries. Many Muslim and non-Muslim brothers and sisters have taken refuge in our country, especially in Syria and Iraq, due to internal conflicts in neighbouring countries. Following these sudden and mass migration currents, legislation on asylum, illegal migration, and international protection, which is scattered and employing different institutions, has been met in a law that has for the first time in our history responded to the current needs. In order to address problems and improve the necessary policies, the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate has been established. Our General Directorate's basic tasks include implementing policies and strategies on the area of migration; co-ordination between the relevant institutions and institutions; controlling foreign entry, exit and deportation; international protection, temporary protection and protection of victims of human trafficking. Mr. President, reviews of valuable lawmakers at resuscitation centers under our Immigration Administration General Directorate report the rights of each immigrant with a notification form and an additional notification brochure; the notification provides information on the rules of the centre's general order for which the person will be kept for as long as possible -- legal positions, extradition, legal aid, appeals to decisions and appeals to the judiciary. All foreign expenditures at the send-back center are covered by the Social Welfare Foundation. As a result, we can say that Turkey is one of the major migration routes in the world because of its position between developed rich Western countries and developing poor violence. The level of prosperity between the two regions appears to continue this migration movement before it is eliminated. The halt of migration from east to west will only be possible with the stabilisation, economic recovery, increased and diversification of business opportunities. It should also be known that the Western way of life, which they have always longed for, does not offer a dusty life. In the West, it is known that hatred for immigrants is growing, that immigrants are less accepted in working life, that they do not benefit from the equality of opportunities in education, that they are victims of racist acts. That is why it is important in Eastern societies to know how much they want to achieve at the cost of their lives. The activities of our directorate of Migration will be beneficial for both the immigrants and Turkey as well as to our country's sensitivity, seriousness and determination for immigrants. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all with the desire of a world where peace, brotherhood, and law are provided, where no one has to leave their homes.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0176par0208	Thank you. The tenth speaker is Ali Bull, Congresswoman of Muğla. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0177par0212	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the economy ministry budget. First of all, I salute you and our beloved nation watching over their television. Since budget talks have started, we're talking about economics, growth, employment. None of these are independent of the economic crisis the world has entered in 2008 and has yet to get away with. If you don't have a buyer, it doesn't mean much that you've produced the goods to sell. Turkey is one of the lucky countries to achieve political and economic stability despite the crisis. Our country has continued to grow from the last twenty quarters to this direction with stability. Turkey, according to OECD data, grew by 6 per cent from 2010-2013. At the same time, 28 countries of the European Union grew by 0.8%. So, according to 28 countries of the European Union, Turkey has grown 7.5 times in this period. According to OECD expectations, Turkey will grow 4.7 from 2004-2023. At the same time, the world faced an estimate of 3.5 and the United States of the United States of growth below 3. The success story of our country at this time was especially in exports. Had it not been for the progress of exports and the capture of the age in its time, he would not have come so prepared for these crises. The export of Turkey before economic decisions on 24 January 1980 was $2 billion. By 2002, in 23 years, our exports came to $36 billion, and between 2003 and 2013, we made 150 billion. How did that happen? Political stability, strategic planning, private sector dynamism and the Turkish entrepreneur's inclusive power and character, as well as the Ministry of Economics, our economic bureaucrats support the private sector, and our private sector has found the state's patron, compassionate hand behind it. When we built the 2004-2006 Export Strategic Plan at the beginning of 2004, we determined two major handicaps in terms of our exports. The first was addiction to the product, and the second was addiction to the country. measures have been taken to reduce dependency on the country and dependence on the product. Because of my lack of time, I can't rank them one by one, but we've moved from the European Union to the Far East, where we've been exporting less and less, and we've moved towards the market, addiction to the product, and technology towards the more intense products. Between 2001-2012, friends, developing countries averaged 10.7 exports in ten years, while Turkey exported 10 per cent during this period. Again, the Strategic Plan 2023 followed the Export Strategic Plan from 2004-2007. According to this plan, it is among our goals to gain 1.5 per cent of the world's trade in 2023 and enter between 10 economies. We've had significant results in market diversification and product diversification, but in May 2004, the World Bank country report notes this development as follows: I read exactly: since 2002, successful export growth has accompanied both export markets and product diversity in Turkey. The competitiveness of Turkish exports is increasing. At this point, export products have increased sophistication and have improved quality. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget to be good and good luck, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0178par0220	Thank you. The eleventh speaker is Genghis Yavilioğlu, Erzurum MP. Here you are, Mr. Yavilioğlu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0179par0224	Mr. President, dear friends, I speak for the budget of the Ministry of Economics, and I salute you all. Many of our friends have explained with economic data what our economy has been doing since 2002. I'm going to give you some data that economic success and crises can be understood along with social and political events. Dear friends, in order for us to understand the economic crises of 2002, we find that the terrorist incidents prior to 2002, the unsolved murders, the closed-down parties, the green and white capital divisions, the closed schools, are a closed state and a society that is unstable and insecure as a result of the closed schools. That is also the reason 25 banks went down during this period between 1994 and 2003. In fact, when you think that the media boss of 10 banks in 25 bankrupt banks is the media boss, you'll see how economic relations go together with political, social media relations. During this period, interest payments in total revenues of 55 per cent in 1996 increased to 80 per cent in 2001, but could only be explained by muflied merchant behavior. Again, when you look at the GDP rate of debt in the public sector, we can only understand that in 1988, from 4.8 (99) to 15.1), debt has been produced with often changing powers, and budgets have been created as election budgets. We can only understand why the real-estate sector didn't invest as a result of the government's real interest in domestic debt reaching 20 per cent in 1994 and 36.8 per cent in 1999. Of the ISO 500 companies, there were companies in the real sector that earned 33 per cent interest in 1990, while in 1999 there were 219 per cent interest revenues. Dear friends, we must accept that during the AK PARTY, stability and confidence have been restored. It's because of stability and trust that national income per person, growth rates increase, inflation, decline in interest, rise in the stock market, as well as a significant success in the struggle for poverty. No economic success is purely political and social, dear friends. What's happening in the field of faith, what's happening in the Kurdish issue, is the result of the openings in the Alevi issue, the economic improvements I've been talking about. Friends described Turkey's comparison with developed countries, but you all know how good we are in terms of growth and debt. Because of the new economic transformation package that we've announced, I can't help but say this. Of course we've done very good things. Of course, there's been a lot of progress. Of course, there's a success story in the economy, but we know what we're going to do. We're looking into the reasons for the current deficit, particularly the difference between exports and imports. Why do we have a current deficit, because of what pencils, because of the lack of savings, the difference between savings and investment, we're doing the work of how we can be resolved. Again, we have serious work to increase the share of industrial production in growth. In order to increase the share of imports and between goods and consumer goods in total imports, we work to increase both the share and the quality of loans in the manufacturing sector and the COBI. Our problem is, in short, dear friends, to fight the elements that deter the industrialist. So, we're looking for ways to get rid of the middle-income trap. And when we put together these areas of the struggle that we're talking about, where we're determined and determined, you see the reality of the package that's been explained by the problem that exists. Dear friends, again, in order to explain economic reasons, you have to include social and political reasons. For him, we also know that in order to achieve economic success, the process of solutions must continue, the opening of the Flame must continue, constitutional studies must be concluded, and state-state relations must be reformed. I wish you all the best luck with our budget.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0180par0237	Thank you. The 12th speaker is Ismet Uğma, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0181par0241	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism for 2015, and I hereby salute your delegation. In fact, today I had very important data on culture, tourism, and I was going to share them with you, but today's events and the approach of our friends from time to time made it necessary for me to express a few things, dear friends. Turkey faces the most serious danger of recent times. There have been many attempts on Turkey, but it's facing the most serious danger. This is a great danger to all of us. Now, why are you panicking in an article about Mr Ekrem Smoky, Nedim Sener and Ahmet Şık? Otherwise, you'll be free of a crime, a flaw. It's been tried. Now, my request from all opposition party friends is this: that the issue has been brought to justice. To wait patiently and get the result, an attempt at coup, to the country, to the nation, to our people...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0182par0245	Who's doing the hit on democracy?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0181par0246	...without any party distinction, it can't be allowed to try to take the country to a point where the country's future is, indeed, subservient to forces outside the country. What's our bet, dear friends? We say there's been a coup attempt. So, how do we explain what we say to our beloved nation if we don't do anything about this coup attempt, we don't make any attempt? Therefore, the court's conclusions must be expected and then evaluated. Mr. Hussein left in the morning, testified and was released, two or three of our journalists were released. Our struggle, my friends, is that maybe we're not making too much emphasis on it, maybe we're not standing on it: we're comparing the gang called parallel to a pyramid. We're fighting a gang organization on the pyramid. All our dear friends under the pyramid are our brothers, our citizens, our friends. There is no doubt about it. Our struggle is the gang group and organization above the pyramid that all opposition parties must fight with support. Dear friends, you can appreciate that the distinctive feature of the AK PARTY is that it is not a conjunctural party. Without a conjunctural party, it's a party based on morality, containment, continuity. So we're all working together to move our country to a certain point with these three hairs. The trends of the age are clear, my dear friends, and now the AK PARTY has also established cultural management. I'd like to thank our Ministry, our party, and everyone who really worked for it. Because communication, IT, technology, freedoms, and the AK PARTY put it under cultural management. I congratulate you, Minister, I truly congratulate your Ministry. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Because, in fact, the Earth is fighting the Third World War, not named after it. Let me tell you the reason for the situation on Syria, which seems to be a failure in our relative Middle East, in one word, dear friends: because Europe, America, and the world's forces without democracy are fighting their own values. You were trying to export democracy, so what happened?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0183par0252	They sold it to you!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0181par0253	Multistandard Europe is a state of America, and hopefully we'll get over it. Friends, the Pharaohs may kill all the children on the earth in order that Moses may not be born, but remember that Moses, out of the blood of those children, will make the earth peaceful. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's what we're all trying to do together, with our staff, our opposition, that's what we're trying to do. I'd like to finish by giving you one last example. When the Holy Prophet Mecca told his elders, the apocalypse broke. Just so you understand, I'm just saying, from the point of view, we're all together. Mr. President, I'm sorry. To the elders of Mecca, he said: "O chiefs of Mecca, you are the same as the black Bilal. How dare you say equal! Let's give you what you want. And what did the leading man in this case say? Not if you put the sun in my right hand, nor the moon in my left hand. Yes, everyone on earth will be equal in basic rights and freedoms, and will be equal, and will live equal, and no one will be more human than the other.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0184par0259	Yes, thank you, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0181par0260	I'd like to make a point to my HDP friends...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0184par0261	Mr. Flying, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0181par0262	Dear friends, the cleanest party in the history of culture and co-existence is the Justice and Development Party. That's a lot to take in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute you all with respect, love, and conversation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0184par0265	Thirteenth speaker, Gülşen Orhan, Van MP.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0185par0267	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of 2015. I salute the High Council. Dear friends, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has been working with a very different understanding for the past 12 years. Our historical works, our written cultural monuments, and our cultural assets of all the cultures living in Turkey are being gradually presented to Turkey and the world's humanity today. We are now in extraordinary change with new museums, new archaeological digs, cultural palaces, cultural centers, restorations, promotional organizations, mass editions of classically written cultural works, fairs, exhibitions, economic incentives and projects. Dear friends, for almost a century, world nations have made great contributions to their economies, while world civilizations, cultural beings, tourism values, have become an inheritance to humanity and have gained great prestige from these values. Unfortunately, in our country, an enormous civilization in Anatolia, the data of this civilization has come to this day either in cellars or in warehouses or in traffickers' route transfers. On the other hand, data from other cultures have been deliberately ignored and condemned to decay or perish. I think it's a great loss to our society. At the end of a century, that's why we've turned into a society that doesn't know each other, that doesn't understand each other's culture, that's why we're struggling with these problems. Now we all have to work together to make up for the loss. With the deadline, there's no way I can talk about the work in the last two years. Our Minister or our other friends may have mentioned it, Mr. Secretary, but in the last ten years, all the data has shown that we've folded eighty years. Our Ministry of Culture also has the first ones that I think are very important, very valuable to society, and I would like to share them with you, my dear friends. So far, our ministry has published the most important writing of Turkish culture, the classics, and left Turkey, the Turkish people, a valuable legacy to the world, and a very important one. However, Turkish culture is not the only one in Turkey. All other cultures are the values of this land, of this land, of these people, of all of us, of all of us, of value to us. This understanding led to the publication of classical works of Kurdish culture in 2010, with instructions from our President. While some of the real copies of some works are hard to reach, we have gathered from all over the world, but three of our great works have been published so far. The first one is Ahmed-i Hani's Mem û Hain, and the second one is the Court of Melaye Jiziri, and the third one is the Court of Feqiyê Teyran. Other artifacts are now very important to study by writers and poets. These great figures, dear friends, are for the Kurds what is for the people of Mazlana, Haci Bektas, Veli, Yunus Emre, Turkish people. So they're common values for Turkey, and we all need to get to know them and absorb them so that we can understand each other and embrace each other. Another good study is that Yilmaz South was published in a series of classic films. I appreciate it in that way, too. These are always first for the Ministry of Culture. Two very important works of Alevi culture are being published: Maktel-i Huseyn, and the futüvetnam has been published in a series. Dear friends, I'd like to express one more thing from here. A very important museum is opening this year. It's being held now, the largest Urartu museum in the world. The museum, which contains 4,000 of our artifacts, has become 40,000 artifacts. I'd like to ask a favor of the Minister for Turkey. The Museum of Anatolian Civilities is necessary for Turkey. He's in pretty bad shape right now. And it's really going to look good in Turkey, and it's going to be a very important museum that the world can see. Hopefully they'll give us some good news from here. I wish our budget to be good, and I salute the high council.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0186par0278	Thank you. The 14th speaker, Bedrettin Yıldırım, is an MP for Bursa. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0187par0282	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm going to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Culture in our ongoing budget. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, culture is a whole of material and spiritual values covering the development stages of communities, in its simplest definition. The local customs, customs, and lifestyles of societies combine into a mosaic, creating a national culture, and the most important thing that sustains a state is the national culture of that country. Culture is the nation and the nation is the state. When the Turks arrived in Anatolia, they had a very solid state tradition of a thousand and five hundred years, and a coveted order was established; palace, madrasa, inn, bath, road, caravansaray, hospital, bridge, shrine, mosques were built. There's been a tremendous publicity stunt that we're proud to see today. As these moves were carried out, the values that existed earlier in Anatolia were preserved, protected. Dear lawmakers have taken the legitimacy of the Ottoman state from the country of the state and property from the nation. This culture, where the Ottomans struck the seal, has always been an inheritance to the Turkish community. We will continue our most important cultural heritage with our experience of living together. With the experience we have, we have not allowed this union to break down until today, nor will we ever again. As it has been done in this land in the past, from the Gulf crisis to today, the theft of culture of imperial forces in the Middle East continues, unfortunately. Libraries are being emptied in Syria, Iraq, museums are being destroyed, state archives are being looted, and a historical memory is almost erased. That's exactly why it's time to preserve Turkish culture and history and take care of it. It also creates the basic components of our country's tourism potential -- natural, cultural and historical values that we have. Despite the economic crises around the world in 2014, our country has achieved significant distances in tourism and tourism revenues, close to $35 billion, and the number of tourists has reached 30 million. Fellow lawmakers, along with three new museums in 2014, have been renovated and opened to visitors by seven museums that we are in, including the Bursa Mudanya House of Investigation Museum. The birth of the Ottoman Empire is included in the world heritage list. Again, the Bursa Iznik Lotus Hatun Designatory will be taken care of and opened to visitors at the end of this year. Precious lawmakers, under the document of Turkey's Tourism Strategy, work has been launched in 15 cities that have high cultural tourism potential and envisioned development. The first step was taken in Bursa. A special combination of the Balkan countries' theatre groups has been co-operated with Erzurum, Diyarbakir and Bursa State Theatres and the Balkan Theatre Festival has been held and the first step has been taken. Through both our governments and our municipalities, in recent years, many historical and cultural values have been revealed in both our country and our Bursa, taken care of, repaired, and served by those watching. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with these feelings, I wish you the best of the 2015 budget to both our nation and our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0188par0293	Thank you. The fifteenth speaker is Mehmet Yüksel, Denizli MP. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0189par0297	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism budget. I salute you all with love and respect to your high council. In society, unity is the most realistic and most effective theatre art that reflects the concepts of unity and unity and peace in life. The theatre is the most important resource that leans on the spirit of society, its texture, and feeds it. The State Theatres have taken on an important task to increase the contribution of culture to our country's socioeconomic development and regional development, and have successfully performed their plays in every corner of our country by carefully preparing its repertoire to carry out this mission. Developments and achievements in theatre art in one country indicate that public consciousness is improving, that thought power and freedom are increasing, that society has reached a common aesthetic level. State Theatres have been represented since 1949 in theatre scenes, where artistic creativity has been transferred to society most effectively. The State Theatres served 28 scenes in 12 provinces in the early 2000s, serving 58 scenes in 23 cities today. Again, recently in Anatolia, Gaziantep, Samsun, Zonguldak, Rize, the Army, Çorum, Malatya, Elazığ, Kahramanmarash, Aydın and Denizli have brought their plays to a broader audience of theatre art. State Theatres are determined and determined to fulfill the importance and necessity of being at every point in Turkey. To this end, in 2015, the State Theatres' family, the present 58 scenes will include Hatay, Manisa, Kayseri, Çanakkale, Mardin and Şanlıurfa. State Theatres, whose most important goal is to deliver theatre art to all and under all conditions, represent an average of 6,000 people a year across the country and reach about 2 million viewers. In the Repertuvarian election, he prioritized the works of Turkish authors and performed 1,120 representations with 452 domestic tours to every corner of our country, and 31 representations to 22 tours to 10 countries abroad to promote Turkish theatre around the world. Again, within social responsibility projects, our government theaters, which are not solely intended to open a curtain, have been provided with free theater viewing of our children who have never been to the theatre with the Children's Theatre Project, and have been given training by our teachers by our theatre artists, who have been given this training by our artists, and have been successfully performed by our early students. The project "Let's Not Blow Flowers" started to help children who work on the street return to school has also contributed to the awareness of responsibility, self-esteem, and a significant step towards bringing them into society. These games were taken to the repertoire by performing theatre studies for disabled children and adults. For the first time in Turkey, the reading theatre for children with visual disabilities was also held within the State Theatres. State Theatres have also worked with them in theaters to contribute to the social and cultural development of prisoners and to ensure that they are brought to society. In addition, support for our local writers will continue in 2015 at the Turkish Copyright Support Project. At the State Theatres in January 2015, the games will continue at the Ankara State Theatres in the Classical Games Week. Mr. Minister, so far, many of our tourism ministers have served in the General Directorate of State Theatres, we have had many friends who have served as general managers in the State Opera and Ballet, and they have certainly made significant contributions to Turkish art life, Turkish culture, Turkish tourism; I thank them and thank them, but I wish them both the success of their new duties, as well as Abdullah Nejat Birecik Bey, who has been appointed to the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 wishes our budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0190par0309	Thank you. The last speaker, Mustafa Baloglu, is Konya MP. Here you go, Mr. Baloglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0191par0313	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of 2015, the President of Writing Arts. I salute you all. Writing works are handwritten and hand-replicated before the use of the printing press is widely produced in every area from medicine to philosophy, astronomy to mathematics, and in every corner of our land and heart geography. These artifacts, which are ambassadors to minds, scholars to civilizations, are the wonders of the arts where at least 10 to 12 artists perform their crafts on each page. Throughout history, developments in social and cultural areas have also affected artistic work and have contributed to the rise of a new sense of art in every era. Writing works can have rare examples of our ancient arts, such as miniature, ebru, line, and epiphany, starting with a unique volume, each of which is an art field of itself. On the other hand, cultural history is the most important and valuable cultural presence in the history of culture that sheds light on the work of scientists and researchers and rare artifacts from the sources of our first-hand and national cultural heritage. Writing is one of the most valuable treasures that connects today to the future, and in a sense, it's the memories of societies and states. As the owners of this precious legacy, we must, through thousands of years, protect this collection that has come to us, in the most functional and up-to-date way, to pass it on to the next generation. This is the decision of the Turkish Writers' Association, which was established four years ago, to write, and to carry out its historical role in the preservation, promotion of our rare printing works and management of our libraries. According to the three district managers across Turkey, 27 libraries and more than 300,000 complete matbus and 500,000 artifacts were presented to the service of the scientific world in the most visible way. From the day our presidency was founded on the preservation of writing artifacts from the first hand in cultural history and from the sources of our national cultural heritage, we have already signed many activities. In this scope, about 200,000 artifacts found in Suleymania's Writing Works Library under the RFID-based new collection system, which has the latest technology in its system, have been removed from the difficult situations they've been subjected to foreboding over the years. The construction, which was found in the House of Solomonia and is called the Süleymanmaniye Birthhouse, has been renovated and repaired, and has begun to serve in the form of a book healer, equipped with the necessary equipment for book restoration, consolidation and research. This hospital is a centre for the restoration of artifacts found in our own libraries, as well as for writing works that have reached the Ministry from all over the world that need restoration. Our medical facility, which serves international standards with advanced technology, has also become an educational center, and has gained an international role in the restoration, maintenance and study of Islamic writings. So far, TİKA (TİKA) and Mali and Moritanya have been jointly studied to protect the writing in Mali and Moritania, and there have been contacts with specialists and international organisations working abroad on Islamic writing, and training has also been launched. In 2014, 2,202 artifacts were revised, cleaned, and protected priors were set. The presidency continues its efforts to restore artefacts, writing experts, chemists, and biologists, who have been damaged, old, and distorted. The meeting of books found in libraries with readers, offering them to the services of local and foreign experts, providing the easiest way for people in the field to access these works, has been identified as one of the main targets for the Writing Arts Agency. Again, the President of Turkey's Writers Association began translation and publishing activities in 2012. As a result of both the applications from researchers and the work conducted within our presidency so far, the works of religious sciences, science and philosophy, literature and thinking have been published in the area of thought and literature, including seven pp. Studies continue to improve the physical space conditions of libraries with historical significance and restore the independent library buildings. A new library of writing and service museums was launched in Iconium, and during 2015, a very modern writing office and library of our people will be presented to the service of their people within the site of the shrine of His Majesty. I wish you all the best in our budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0192par0326	Thank you. Avel Dedegil, İstanbul MP who asked for a word in his name and in his favour. Here you go, Mr. Dedegil.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0193par0330	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers: In the fifth round of the Fiscal Year Budget Bill 2015, I made a personal pledge on the budgets of the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. I salute your high council. Our esteemed lawmakers, our government, as in many areas, have also put our nation at the center of our nation's needs, based on its public-management service and understanding. In particular, the Strategic Plan 2015-2019, which our Interior Ministry will begin to implement as of 2015 fiscal year, was prepared on the basis of the needs of society in order to provide a more quality service. And again, among the structural arrangements of our Ministry of Interior from population and citizenship to local governments, the projects that I would call the most advanced and revolutionary are the E-Pasaport and the Turkish Republic's Identity Card Project. Electronicly-read chips, new passports, which are readable e-Pasaports, have been delivered to the addresses of over 15 million of our citizens so far. And again, the pilot application of the Turkish Republic ID card, which includes biometric elements and will facilitate many things for our citizens, has been completed, and, hopefully, in three or four years, it has been intended to be ready for all our citizens to use it. Respected lawmakers, another issue is cultural and tourism activities. As we all know, our country is on an important geography with a wide range of culture that has hosted many civilizations throughout history. Our Ministry of Culture and Tourism is implementing a comprehensive operating programme to protect the artifacts and cultural assets of many civilizations on the state-run geography of Asia Minor. Our ministry provides very important services with a total of 190 museums, with three new museums opened in 2014 to protect and transfer our cultural heritage to future generations. In addition, archaeological excavations have been given special importance, and the number of local digs with the Council of Ministers has risen to 117. Nearly 200,000 artifacts have been preserved by the Turkish Writing Director in 2010. As we know, the revenue from tourism is also seen as a very important entry into our country's economy. In 2002, the 17th ranking of the world in tourism, with the right policies of our governments, rose to the 6th place and remained in 2014. The number of foreign tourists visiting our country for October 2014 has increased by 5.57 per cent compared to last year, and the revenue has reached 26.6 billion dollars. As of 2014, our 397 beach has the Blue Flag Award of the International Environment and Education Foundation, which has reached certain criteria for beaches and marinas. Our country's third place in the world in implementing the blue flag is also the result of our environmentally sensitive policies. As it turns out, the activities and policies of our Ministry of Culture and Tourism continue to be an indispensable tourist centre for the world. Respected lawmakers, I'd like to finally mention that one of the most important consequences of democratisation is economic growth. Thanks to our government's programs and political determination, our economy is growing rapidly and is increasingly resistant to global crises. It is also a joy to be among the fastest growing countries in the last 12 years. It is also a joy that our government, under the influence of sustainable policies and political stability, considers being among the world's top 10 top economies in 2023 to be a priority. I thank our esteemed bureaucrats, especially our President, Prime Minister and ministers, who have worked hard for our country to grow, grow, grow, grow, grow, grow, and earn rights and work. I wish you the best of the 2015 budget, and I salute the grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit04spe0194par0337	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0194par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 30th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our fifth round of round talks with the 2015 Central Management Budget Law Bill on the 2013 Central Management Computing Bill. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the government, Minister of Interior Efkan Ala will address you now. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0195par0007	Mr. President, we are gathered to discuss the budget bill for 2015 with the final account of the Security Directorate, the Police General Directorate, the General Command, the Coast Guard Command, the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration and the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security in 2013. I hereby salute your delegation on behalf of myself and my Ministry. I'd like to express my gratitude to the esteemed lawmakers who have contributed to our ministry's work with criticism and suggestions. Mr. President, our ministry is to maintain and maintain national security and security; to protect basic rights and freedoms; to prevent crime; to pursue and arrest criminals; to fight terrorism, smuggling and organised crime; to maintain and oversee traffic patterns on land roads; to ensure the protection and safety of our border, coastal and naval areas; to establish standards for the efficient and efficient functioning of local administration services; to conduct population and citizenship services; to conduct jobs and operations related to charity collection; to conduct and operations of regular and irregular migration; to maintain and other responsibilities, and to ensure the safety of local government services. Our ministry conducts these tasks through six main service units, six consultations and audit units, seven auxiliary service units, five boroughs, 81 district governorships, 919 district subsidiaries and subsidiaries related to them. Our ministry is organized on all sides of our country to carry out this responsibility properly. Mr. President, I'd like to inform you about the work and the results we've done in the areas where we're in charge of the ministry. Homeland security services are run by the Security Directorate, the Brigadier General Command and the Coast Guard Command, which is part of our ministry. As of today, there are 270,000 personnel in the Police General Directorate, 196 thousand in the General Command of the gendarmes, and 5,700 in the Coast Guard Command. 93 per cent of our country's territory is in the area of police duty and responsibility, while 7 per cent are in the area of police duty and responsibility. The total population is 86 per cent in the police area, while 14 per cent live in the gendarme region. The coast of our country, a total of 8,484km [8,484 km] long, is secured by our Coast Guard Command, which is about half the size of our landwaters and our country's area of land. In the presentation of security services, we have adopted a priority policy to prevent crime from being committed and to develop deterrent measures to ensure it, and we conduct our work in this framework. At the time of my ministry, we endeavored to take advantage of technological opportunities and to promote the quality of service in order to effectively perform security services. In this framework, preventive measures are primarily weighted in the fight against crime. In particular, work has been launched in major cities for 24 hours on the basis of air patrols, reconnaissance and surveillance activities. The technical and administrative capacity for investigating crimes has been developed, and modern crime labs have been established within our security agencies with all kinds of technological resources and international arredity. The City Security Management System, also known as MOBESE, has been highly used in the fight against crime, and has been established in all of our 81 provinces and in most of our major counties. With planned operations against organized crime organizations, many of these organisations have been neutralized, and our citizen's trust in the state has been strengthened. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the way to activate the fight against crime, provide a safe and peaceful environment is through the participation and support of the community in security services. The community-supported police project, launched for this purpose, has been successfully implemented in our province of 81. The work of security teams and lightning crews in our 81 provinces has achieved significant success in the fight against the crimes of society which have caused fear and anxiety. The Security School Security Education Project is successfully implemented under the protocol signed between our Ministry and the Ministry of National Education to ensure that our young people and children will be educated in a safe and healthy environment. Our work under the 2013-2015 Anti-organised Crime Action Plan under the National Strategy Document to systematically and effectively combat organised crime has been avoided by several criminal attempts to undermine public safety and to disrupt public order. Our ministry considers dealing with drug trafficking a special priority and a special priority to keep our young people and children away from drugs. It is intended to promote the narcotics project throughout the country in 2015 to protect our citizens, especially our young ones, from drugs. Our Ministry and the Ministry of Customs and Trade in an effort to effectively fight trafficking that has affected our country economically and socially, has signed a protocol for Co-operation in the Anti-Trafficking Area and the protocol is being implemented successfully. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been weighted by international co-operation efforts in recent years to uncover the contacts of criminal organizations operating internationally in the fight against increasingly important immigration trafficking and human trafficking crimes. Our country is in a very geopolitically sensitive position due to its presence on European migration roads. At the same time, our country is the center of a region of intermittent internal turmoil and political turmoil, which has been added every day. Turkey is subject to illegal transit migration actions due to its delicate position. In addition, our country is affected by illegal immigration movements as a target country because of its increasing prosperity level. Our country has demonstrated its firm position on this issue by taking effective national measures against illegal immigration. There are 404,900 foreigners in our country who have received a residence permit. Mr. President, the Highway Traffic Safety Strategy and Action Plan, which aims to reduce the deaths of traffic accidents by 50 per cent in 2011-2020 to minimise and gradually eliminate our losses in traffic accidents, has been established. In this context, the traffic security platform, which is planned to be the roof of all institutions operating in traffic safety throughout the country, aims to ensure the support of NGOs, universities, business and media from all communities that form society. Studies have found that fatalities in accidents have decreased by between 50 per cent and 35 to 40 per cent in the event of the use of seat belts, if the speed limit is met. Traffic control and audits are primarily aimed at preventing accidents and minimizing the loss of lives and property of our citizens. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are highly important to the development of security personnel in quality and quantity, according to my ministry. For the first time as AK PARTI power, we opened up our way to becoming a police officer for our college graduates, and in 2002, we moved the 21% college and faculty-graduated police rate to over 90 per cent, as of today. To comply with the changing conditions, democratic standards will also be taken into consideration in police education in high countries and will undergo a restructuring process. We care about this reform process to achieve even more, in order to raise civil, democratic values and police officers and superiors who respect human rights. The work of specialising the staff structure of the General Staff of the Gendarme Command is under way. As of today, 35 per cent of the staff of the General Staff of the Gendarmes is composed of professional officers. The professionalisation rate will be increased by continuing to receive expert personnel in 2015 and later. As a government, we value the protection of basic human rights and freedoms. In this context, we've implemented very important legal regulations over the past 12 years. The practice of human rights violations in the fight against crime and criminals will then be carried out with great determination, as it has been so far. The necessary judicial and administrative procedures for officers concerned with alleged human rights violations have been carried out with no leniency. In this framework, claims of human rights violations which have been committed to the Human Rights Review Bureau under the Ministry's Court of Property Board of Investigations are being studied by law inspectors who have studied and trained in this matter. The draft law on the establishment of a general law enforcement commission for further investigation and monitoring complaints against security personnel prepared by our ministry has been discussed on the relevant commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and has been brought to the General Assembly's agenda. Mr. President, good lawmakers, we, the government, are particularly concerned that our internal security units, all buildings, equipment and other needs should be met on time, so that security services can be given to our citizens more effectively. As a ministry, using modern, scientific methods and techniques to shed light on the crimes committed, it is a matter in which we are sensitively concerned about accessing evidence from evidence to the defendant. With that respect, we are particularly concerned that our security services are taking advantage of the newest technologies. We've spread the MOBESE system around our country, where we've found a great benefit in preventing crime and the capture of the perpetrators of crimes. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are leading to the most important security issues our country has been fighting for years. Our government, which is working on effective fighting methods to eliminate the terrorism problem, is developing strategies and policies to meet a high level of coordination and the need for co-operation in this area. Since 2002, the process of resolving a stronger, democratic, free and peaceful Turkey has been implemented as a continuation of the decisive steps towards democratisation. The final goal of the solution to our country's 12 years of build-up of democratisation is the complete end of terrorism, the strengthening of social integration and Turkey's goal of further democracy. Maintaining the peace and security environment in our country, developing policies and strategies for the fight against terrorism and co-ordinating the relevant institutions and organisations have been committed to the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security established during our administration. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as Ministry, we are very interested in the problems of our fallen families and veterans. Between 1996 and 14 years our Ministry of Staff General Directorate co-ordinated the deployment of disabled people who could work with the relatives of the martyr and the disability. During that time, a total of 16,502 rights holders were placed in public institutions and institutions. In accordance with the Anti-Terror Act, the deployment and deployment of the victims who were able to work with their victims and relatives has been transferred to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. The members of our Ministry, including the village rangers, are compensated for the wounded with relatives of those who were killed in the fight against terrorism. According to the Law on Nakdi Compensation and Monthly Bonding, $2,259,000 was paid in 2013, and in 2014 -- at the end of November -- $2,696,000 in cash. Mr. President, under the new Metropolitan Law, there are 51 municipal private administrations in Turkey, 1,396 municipalities, 18,335 villages. 1.396 is a municipality in the city, the municipality of the city, the municipality of the city, the municipality of the city, the municipality of the municipality of the city, the municipality of the municipality of the city of the city of the city of the city, the municipality of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city As a result of the March 30, 2014 municipal elections, 93 per cent of the population in our country live outside the municipality limits, 7 per cent live outside the municipality. 83 per cent of the municipality's population live in major cities, 13 per cent live within the borders of the municipalities of the province, the district and the municipality. Important reforms for local administrations have been implemented in Turkey, along with the EC PARTI government, and will be carried out at the same time. With these studies, the jurisdictions of municipalities and municipal private administrations have been expanded, their income increased, the scope of custody control has been reduced to minimal. Enhancing the resources of local governments has been viewed as a permanent target by our government, and the laws and financial capacities of local governments have been significantly increased. Again, with these reforms, staff employment in local administrations has been facilitated, qualified staff is allowed to be employed, and has been established as an organization based on the effective service presentation of our local governments. From 2005 to 14 years to 2005, the governorship and subsidiaries of 9 billion 74 million Turkish dollars were earmarked for one of the most comprehensive and important rural development projects in our Republic's history. WORKed under the EPI project, 107,152 km asphalt road, 79,747 km stable road, 40,705 km repair, 16,760,000 square metres of hardwood, 1.309 bridges were completed. Again, water has been taken to 52,178 villages and to its bonds, with no drinking water or insufficient water, and their networks have been restored as part of the SOCIS Project. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main services for our citizens is population and citizenship procedures. In recent years, our ministry's work has led to significant changes and transformations in these services. In population and citizenship services, bureaucratic reduction measures have been implemented, and the work processes have been accelerated and the citizens' satisfaction increased. In this area, the identity code of the Republic of Turkey, the I.D. System, the Address Register System and the Local Address Recording System have been successfully carried out. MERNIS (Central Population Administration System) has enabled population records to be carried out and kept in an electronic environment and central structure. One of the projects used by our ministry is the 112 Emergency Call Centers Project, aimed at providing public services more effectively at less cost and facilitating the daily lives of our citizens. For different emergency calls in our country -- fire, health, safety, security -- there are already different service numbers being used, and citizens in need of emergency calls have to know more than one number. This delays the intervention, causing time and resources to be wasted. The 112 Emergency Call Centers Project is being conducted in our Ministry's Co-ordinator in order to address this inconvenience and to include multiple emergency phone numbers under one number. Call centers have been activated in 12 counties as part of the project. By the end of 2014, we continue to work in our 13 provinces and then in our other provinces for the operation of the centers. As the ministry, we care deeply about NGOs and support them. Civil society organizations are essential elements of civil society, participation, pluralism and democracy. As of December 2014, the total number of active associations in our country is 104,289. The Associations Information System Project is a major study of associations. With the project, any association, particularly the online association, will be able to conduct business and transactions electronically. Mr. President, I've tried to brief you on the work our ministry has done in 2014 and the work it will do in the years to come. There is no doubt that important tasks and responsibilities fall to our ministry, which performs services for our citizens in almost every aspect of the social field. It is possible that these tasks and responsibilities can be carried out properly, provided the financing costs are covered by the overall budget. Finally, I'd like to inform you about the figures for the Ministry of Interior and its subsidiaries, which were envisioned in the 2015 Budget Bill. Our ministry has been earmarked for 3 billion 898 million 467 thousand Turkish liras in the draft budget law of the 2015 Centre Management Act. There is a 9.79 per cent increase according to the grant assigned to our Ministry in 2014. The budget of our Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is 5.9 per cent higher than the previous year, 22 million 183,000 Turkish liras, and our Security General Directorate's budget has increased by 6.44 per cent compared to the previous year, 17 billion 623 million 719,000 Turkish liras, and our Parliamentary General Command's budget has increased by 5.4 per cent, while our Coast Guard Command's budget has increased by 11.87 per cent, and 506 million 226 million Turkish liras. Our Immigration Administration General Directorate's budget is estimated to be $179,890, with an increase of 43.19 per cent compared to the previous year. With the approval of our esteemed delegation, the resources that will be earmarked for our budget will be made available to the Ministry to perform the services available in its field, effective, efficient, and appropriate service. Dear President, before I say thank you, I'm going to present specific figures on the issues that some of our valued MPs have asked us to discuss in their speech. Some figures on appointment and replacements have been voiced in the police department. Dear friends, I believe that the transfer in 2011 is 47,234, 49,393 in 2012, 47,462 in 2013, 49,742 in 2014. In total, in 2011, all appointments were 63,419, 61,129 in 2012, 58,495 in 2013, 61,032. I mean, it's actually a routine pattern. Of course, of course, there are appointments for certain problems, not at the rate that will affect those percentages. Dear friends, there's been some serious work during the AK PARTY administrations regarding our police's rights. A new police officer in 2002 received 665 Turkish liras and received 2.659 liras in 2014 with a 300 per cent increase. Of course, there's always a lot of serious fighting going on with illegal cigarettes, but in 2014, 3 million 164,000 packets of illegal cigarettes were seized. And that's... that's worth $1 billion, 221 million. Dear friends, this struggle is being carried out effectively under constant control. But, of course, we should be able to achieve 100 percent success, but we should also stress the achievements here. In our country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. President, do you have five minutes? Or...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0196par0043	Thank you. It's over, Mr. Secretary, but if Zeybekci gives us his time...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0195par0044	Okay. Well, then, Mr. President, on behalf of the esteemed MPs, myself and my Ministry, I truly thank you. I wish that 2015 would bring blessings to our country and our nation, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0196par0047	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, again, on behalf of the government, the second speaker is Minister of Economy, Mr. Nihat Zeybekci. Come in, Mr. Secretary, your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0197par0051	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on behalf of the budget talks of the Ministry of Economics of 2015, I salute the Grand Assembly, our veteran nation. What we've seen during the day-long budget marathon is that it all comes back to the economy. When everything comes up, all of our ministries' budgets, all of our issues, from education to justice, from the environment to urbanism, from internal affairs to tourism, from finance to treasure, everything comes together in the economy. And when we look at the world, it's all about the economy, and it's all about business. When we look at the world in the Cold War, the world's borders were divided in an ideological sense; there were groups, like NATO, like the East Bloc, like the Caribbean countries, like the African Union, like the Islamic Co-operation Agency, but when we look at the last decade, everything in the world is rewritten. Now the ideological distinctions are over. At the base of all the distinctions in the world, economic bases, commercial priorities... the world is being redesigned economically and commercially. When you look at the last four or five years, it's condensed. The United States and the European Union meet not as a business partnership, but as a whole within the framework of commercial integration. Today, 50 per cent of the world's economy meets under one third of the world's trade, in the event that the United States and the European Union meet under what we call the "TTTTTIP," or "Transatlantic Investment and Trade Partnership." As the same America moves east, Japan, Korea, New Zealand and Australia heads to another economic group with 16 different countries called the Trans Pacific Partnership, which we call the Trans Pacific Partnership. And as close to us, we see Russia trying to form a new union in the geography of the former Soviet Union called the Eurasia Customs Union. In the event that Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia and Azerbaijan are together, the process continues rapidly. The Gulf Co-operation Agency, the African Union, the Caribbean, South America. Turkey has also played a very active role in taking its rightful place in this world, which has now been designed in a different way in the last decade, in the last 12 years. At one time, the development of power from the development and national will of between 1950 and 1960 in Turkey was a period of development based on an order that was blocked by the 1960 conflict and then, of course, the 1980 coup and then on exports, which began with the late Ozal. Turkey is discovering something new, so in 1980, Turkey, with not a total volume of foreign trade, not even $5 billion, was a Turkish member of the European Union, a member of NATO who had not yet imagined the process with its ally, who was trapped in its own framework, and was forced into new horizons in its own world to deal with storms and waves of its own non-competitive, domestic production around the world; at the beginning of the 1980s, it was Turkey that carried all the features of one polar economic mind. Those were the days when today's generation was so hard to understand. What they didn't understand was that Turkey had a communist structure with the impacts of every decade that Turkey needed 70 cents for. After all, for the first time, Turkey met with the late Ozal, the world, trade, exports, competition, and export-based growth logic, and took the late Özal Turkey, and introduced those growers of Anatolia, the tradesman of Anatolia, to the world for the first time. For the first time, Turkey has come to terms with export revenues, export revenues, export-based growth based on exports -- national growth, national growth, national development -- by selling unusable resources, subterranean resources, resources to the world. Of course, in the period of Ozal, Turkey's introduction to the new world moved back to a different place until the 1990s and the end of 2002. Turkey has again, unfortunately, entered into political inferno: "Whatever they give, five more are mine." (The popularities, such as the retirement of our citizens in Turkey at age 35-38, lost half of our assets in one night, since understanding national growth based on exports, claiming exports increase inflation by two days, never to be merged at the base, but the political engineers who are trying to join politics in the ceiling, the Constitutional books that fly in the air, have seen the interest of our citizens at 150, 300 per cent, 7,000 per cent, 7 per cent, and we have lost half of our assets in one night. In exchange for two days, there are about 200 dollars in which the Bank has been no intention to depositing any one of the US bank's money, and I don't know about the price of each one of the 48 per cent of the U.K.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0198par0057	Can you tell me the amount of sunken loans today?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0197par0058	These were signed and sent to the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. Dear friends, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers were wondering if in 2002...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0199par0060	Who made a deal with the IMF in 2006?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0200par0061	How many banks have you sold, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0201par0062	There's 40 billion sunk credits.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0063	...If the People's Bank and Agriculture Bank had been closed as promised by the Republic of Turkey, if the Foundations Bank had been sold, in today's economic markets, in today's financial markets, these banks would have been rehabilitative in the state's hands, so what would markets be like in Turkey? Where would interest be? I don't even want to imagine it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0201par0064	You've privatized half the People's Bank.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0065	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers; in 2002, this nation and the economy of this country were brought to the final elections of November 3, 2002, when they were literally on their knees, where they wanted to be hit by capitalizations; rather, they had to be taken away; and in November 3, 2002, the nation said: enough promises and decisions are made by the nation. On November 3, 2002, there were representatives of the business community. On November 3, 2002, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the President of the EC PATİ, who was not even Prime Minister -- started a tour of all political, political and economic points of the world, and its goals. He fell on his knees and set out just behind the November 3rd elections to explain that the Turkish economy and Turkey in the new world, in the new economic order, exist in the new political and political order and that it will exist. With the EC PARTI power, Turkey rebooted reforms and the process of extroverting in the post-Escal period, this time in an inclusive way throughout the world. Export-based growth has been rebooted with a new understanding based on the foundations of close geography and cultural geography. In 1992, our national income, which was $160 billion, $230 billion in 2002 and $820 billion in late 2013, grew by 2.9 per cent of the period between 1993 and 2002, with an average of 5 per cent between 2003 and 2013. As of now, Turkey is one of the rare countries in the world that has caught 5.8% growth in the last twenty quarters. But here, I would like to stress one thing: for the first time, as economic theorists have described, Turkey has begun to do very important things about the fact that export-based growth is happening. So, as Turkey grew older, it increased its exports and showed it could narrow down its current deficit without reducing investment and interim imports. Cari is open, 37% this year compared to last year. If all the world's economies had caught the current deficit by 6.4 per cent -- national income rate in 2014, they had said success in 2013.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0203par0068	The rate of growth has slowed, Mr. Secretary, so it's clear...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0069	I'll get to that, and I'll get to the growth rate. Now, it is viewed as 6.4 per cent success for Turkey; at the end of 2014, as Turkey grows, while increasing exports, it has managed to narrow down its current deficit without reducing investment and interim imports, so it will reach 5 per cent by the end of this year. Everyone knows that, of course. (AK PARTI) So, without reducing imports, look, Turkey has done about $12.5 billion of the $19.3 billion open-door reduction, with a net export increase, and Turkey has done this with measures taken in its unnecessary imports without reducing investment and interim imports of $6 billion. By the end of 2014, Turkey will achieve growth by around 3.3 per cent or 3.4 per cent, as well as by the end of 2014, because Turkey will hopefully bring it to its destination with the support of the domestic market in the last quarter. In the last three quarters so far, exports have contributed to growth -- 2.8% of its contribution to growth, 2.6 per cent from net export growth. This is a harbinger of national growth. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we find the current 2.9 growth for Turkey, 3.3 per cent growth at the end of the year, yes, we find it low. Turkey must never accept a growth under 5 per cent. Turkey cannot grow below 5 per cent because Turkey's problems with employment are not like other developed countries. See, in 2009, Turkey's participation in the labour force was 44 per cent, while today our population's participation in the labour force is more than 51 per cent. However, as the world fell apart with the economic crisis, after the 2008 crisis, the total number of jobs in European Union member countries went down by 6 million, Turkey increased jobs by increasing its number of jobs by 35 per cent, making 7 million citizens new jobs. Of course, that's not enough, but our unemployment rate is 10.1 percent. Why? Because there's a growing turnout in the labor force, a rural migration to the city, or a housewife who lives in her home, says: "I want to work too. Because the demand for prosperity is increasing, and the prospects for the future are growing positively. On the other hand, Turkey provides for its development, its growth, its prosperity, its increase in national income, and justice in revenue distribution. Turkey has reduced its Gini coefficient to 0.40. Yes, it's not enough, but I'll tell you this: 0.38 in the United States, 0.39 in the UK -- a friend of ours just told me that it's the same as Mexico. There's a huge difference between us. So, what kind of recovery did Turkey make in revenue distribution? In 2002, three percent of the people of this beautiful country lived on a income of less than $2.15 a day, and in 2002, when 30 per cent of the people of this beautiful country lived under $4.30 a day, there were no more citizens living below 2.15 per day; we estimate that those 30, 25 million people below 4.1 million were at 2 per cent as of 2012, as of today. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the $5 billion Turkey at the beginning of the 1980s, have now reached $160 billion in exports today, $50 billion in service revenues, $26 billion in service costs...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0204par0075	Mr. Secretary, would you share the import data from the same years?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0076	Yes, you're not talking about Islam. It's called Islam. With the number of imports of 240 billion dollars, today the foreign trade volume has increased by 100 times in thirty-three years to a huge $475 billion economy, not even $5 billion. In addition, Turkey dropped its share of public net debt in 2002 to 12.7 per cent of the GDP from 61.5 per cent to 12.7 per cent. Let me give you another number: In 2002, 85 percent of the tax revenues paid by this strange nation at every opportunity went to interest. Today, 15 per cent of our country's tax revenues go to interest. We're against it, and we find even 15 percent unbearable. And we're working hard as a government to get this to come down, to get our exports, to grow, to get to the levels that support our employment.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0205par0079	Can you give me interest spending in the private sector, Mr. Secretary? The data you're talking about is just about public debt. It would also make sense if you gave me the interest spending of the private sector. You're taking it one-sided.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0080	Turkey is constantly on its way. Turkey, today, look, it's bothering someone. You know, when you say that cultural geography, when you see the barbecue from across the street, it turns out that those who blow the barbecue like this are the number-one donor country in the world today, in the Caucasus, in the geography, and in the ecdad's trust to us, compared to their very important-national income. That's not how it works. That flag doesn't fly in that geography. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Turkey -- I'm saying in terms of numbers -- is the third place in the world after the United States and the UK, and we're doing everything we can to increase it. Today, Turkey has moved to another part of the world. In a sustainable way, Turkey -- so far, Turkey, yes, has achieved an incredible success in a geography where others have established raw materials and energy resources as a passive economy, controlled consumption habits and consumption networks, even if it has so far been a fanatical production concept.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0206par0084	Yeah, you import everything!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0085	We wish God's blessings to everyone who's worked for this success.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0206par0086	What are you planning to consume? Everything's imported!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0087	And with imports, dear friends, I'm going to give you some very important information.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0206par0088	You're importing beans!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0089	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are Turkey's...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0206par0090	Your nose is gonna get bigger. Don't lie so much.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0091	Now, everyone who's been up here has said certain numbers, certain things are said. It's no shame not to know, I'll tell you. You have to ask and learn, it's a virtue.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0207par0092	But you can't lie!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0093	Worst case scenario, at worst, you might be offended by asking, maybe you can, but as the Ministry of Economics, we built a beautiful web portal, we built a website. Today, in Ethiopia, in Djibouti, in South Africa, in Korea, in New Zealand, in Japan, Alaska, in America, in Mexico, in Peru, if it's playing in an economic sense of garbage in that country, we know it's happening now, Turkey. In 2003, when Recep Tayyip Erdogan and our Prime Minister were referred to as "African expansion" during that Foreign Ministry period, didn't it say, "What are we doing in Africa?"
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0208par0094	How much is dollars today, dollars?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0209par0095	Tell me about Syria.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0096	On that day, dear friends, when Africa opened in 2003, we had ambassadors in 12 countries in Africa, and now we have ambassadors in 39 countries. In Africa, Turkish Airlines became the airway that flew to the highest point, becoming number one. In other news, Turkish Airlines today has become the 1st airline in the world to fly to the most point in the world. So what did we do to Africa? What happened to our 11-year-old business advisors to 26 different countries? Our foreign trade volume, $4 billion, comes to $30 billion today. I was at Djibouti the other day. Djibouti is the opening door of East Africa. With Djibouti government today as the Ministry of Economics of the Republic of Turkey, we are setting up an economic zone for ninety-nine years -- the entrance door to East Africa, the entrance to Ethiopia, the entrance to an Africa with 400 million inhabitants -- where the Turkish flag is fluctuating, where we control the borders, where we set up all the rules.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0210par0098	You can't control your own border, the flag falls in Turkey! It's falling in its own country, don't make it laugh!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0099	...we're doing this as a Republic of Turkey. And there will be only Turkish businessmen and Turkish companies in that economic area, and we have signed it. Also, Ethiopia is the number one country in the development of Africa today. For ten years, the same government and the same political stability have been growing up nearly 10 per cent, especially since ten years ago. So Ethiopia is a common country for us, now an economic common country. We started negotiating free trade deals with them. While the world, America, the European Union is coming together like this... dear friends, that web portal I just told you about, there are mobile discounts from now on, so you can download them into your mobile phones, into your laptops, on your tablets, where you can see their applications, where you can track all the economic developments in the world and Turkey. As Turkey continues these developments around the world, we continue our talks with the European Union at full speed on the customs union. It's the first time we've recorded the distorted structure of the customs union, and the World Bank report has confirmed that we were right. We have noted to the European Union's documents the review, update and improvement of the customs union. We told the United States and the European Union that Turkey is the only country in the world that has a Customs Union Agreement with the European Union. The day the TITIP agreement ended, we told everyone that if we weren't in that agreement, it would be difficult for us as Turkey to continue with the Customs Union Agreement, that it would become impossible. That doesn't mean we have problems with the European Union; the European Union is separate; the customs union is separate. Of course, there's a lot of numbers that I'd like to share with you, and I'd like to say a lot about our incentives, our work, our support, Turkey's trade centers, investment incentives. You'll see all this when you get on our website, the Ministry of Economics website. I don't want to cause you any more trouble here, in these matters. Now, while we were pursuing the interests of our country in Djibouti and Ethiopia, while we were trying to move forward our country's interests here, unfortunately, there were some explanations about both my individual and our DEIC practice: a party's leader made these statements. Out of respect for politics, I don't want to answer the chapter on myself so that people's hopes of politics don't get ruined. If there's a speck of doubt about me in my fifty-three years of life... it's a duty of honor for us to do so politically.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0211par0105	Why did you buy those apartments? You bought two apartments. Why did you take them?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0106	But we have to raise the reputation of politics together. Some people read every piece of paper that's been held in their hands. THE DEA was the associated organisation of the Ministry of Customs and Trade during the previous period. There were 25 members of the Governing Body, 13 of whom the president of the TOBB threw directly, and 12 of them came with the appointment. THE DEA now has the 35-member Governing Body, all selected independently by the General Assembly of 248. In addition, after two years of complaining of the DEIK Governing Body that failed to hold the Governing Body meeting, 13 were elected as the Executive Board of 35 people. Oh, and let me tell you: you've confiscated tax revenues, their incomes, and you've put new taxes on them. The paper in your hand is wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you don't know, go ahead and ask. The information there is this: So you gave the Ministry of Economics the authority to transfer funds to the resources of the DEIK, to the resources of the DEIK, to the Ministry of Economics in September, by the decision of the High Assembly. We're transmitting funds to the DEA. Why? All over the world, what we call culture geography, we've done these things so that, knowing that the world revolves around economic interests and that the ambassadors don't have to go out there without tools or impossible to do. You shouldn't be bothered by any of this. Are you uncomfortable with the election? Are you uncomfortable with the election of the Governing Body? Are you uncomfortable with the election of the Governing Body?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0212par0111	Mr. President, give me a minute or two. And let the citizen hear it, so the citizen can't hear it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0213par0112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0113	I'll tell you this: someone's property, someone's existence may be, but we don't have a dime we can't account for.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0214par0114	Take a break, Mr. President, the Minister is not leaving the bench.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0202par0115	All of ours is lawful, others may be thieves. I'll tell you that, too. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I wish we had more time to talk about this. Despite all this, we say that everything will be fine in this country, our economy will be fine, and in spite of someone's curses...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0215par0119	Tell me at the group meeting, at the group meeting.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0216par0120	Mr. Secretary, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0217par0122	Yes, Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I respectfully salute you, wishing that our Ministry of Economics and our government's budget of 2015 would be better.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0218par0124	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0216par0125	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0218par0126	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. President, in his budget speech, they handed a paper to Mr. President General about his criticism of the legal arrangement for the Council of Foreign Economic Relations, without knowing it. It is not shameful not to know, it is shameful not to learn. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0219par0127	His name didn't come up, but his name didn't.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0216par0128	Please, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'll give you two minutes, so please don't make a new taunt.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0218par0132	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have said the right thing, Mr. Minister. It's not shameful not to know, it's a shame not to learn. There's this 2015 programme, and there's the Minister's signature. He drew pink paintings here, made some assessments of growth figures, Africa and so on, Turkey's growth... Of course, with Turkey's growth, we can be strong, happy to have an embassy in the countries. Mr. Secretary, examine this program, which is your signature. It's not a shame not to know, it's a shame not to know. The ruling period of the Justice and Development Party is 4.8 per cent of Turkey's growth in 2013-2014, the average growth of sub-Saharan Africa is 5.5 per cent year-on-year, while the average growth of Middle East and North African countries is 5 per cent. Turkey is behind African countries, note that once again. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Second, you don't even have a paper on the Foreign Economic Relations Board. Mr. President-General's information is absolutely correct. There's no shame in not knowing, there's no shame in not learning. Go ask your lawyers, ask your constitutional lawyers, scan the Constitutional Court's decisions, scan the Court's decisions. You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't put a bill of income between the revenues of such institutions; the Constitutional Court has a number of cancellations, and the State has numerous cancellations. The law passed by the Supreme Assembly gives us the authority to enforce regulations. The regulation does not give you the authority to take 1% of the revenues of the founding institutions. Article 73 of the Constitution is open. The information you gave the Prime Minister was wrong -- and I'll explain it here in my last day -- you misled the Prime Minister, and you still insist on the same wrong thing: it's dues, it doesn't need the law. No, it needs the law. I think that's probably enough. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0220par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0221par0139	It's not shameful not to know, it's shameful not to learn, because he took the same promise for the same reason that he said... They said the same thing about me. We're talking about...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0220par0140	Mr. Secretary, come in, and I promise you, but please don't give me any more trouble. On the stand, Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0221par0144	Of course, there is no such thing as respect for politics and respect for the president of a political party, due to the political party. But what I'm trying to say is, look, before that, the DEA is an organization that's been going on since 1986, and it's always been the same. They already had 1 per cent of their income, and the DEA was using 1 per cent. There is only one change that has been made here: there has come to be an opportunity to transfer funds from the budget of the Ministry of Economics to the DEIK, to contribute to the budget; this is the only new one. Before, there was still 1 percent dues.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0222par0145	Where's the source, where does it come from?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0221par0146	It's no shame not to know, but it's weird not knowing what you don't know, pretending you don't know what you don't know, which is weird, so you have to turn around and look. There's nothing new in here. DEIK is not finished, DEIK is continuing exactly the same, there is a DEA and the code has been changed; the DEIK has not been closed, it has not been cancelled. THE DEA continues to receive the same dues from all the institutions it has received so far. Since it is not enough, Turkey has authorized the Ministry of Economics to transfer resources from its sources by law to represent exports, exports, and our economy around the world with more wealth and other possibilities. So, yeah, it's okay not to know. It's bad not to know what you don't know, and it's bad to act like you know what you don't know, and it's bad to act like you don't know what you don't know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0223par0150	Mr. Secretary, but you've given us a new challenge, please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0221par0151	No, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0223par0153	It's 11 o'clock. This way from 00, the MPs are here, please.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0224par0154	For the same reason, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0223par0155	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. But please, don't give me any more trouble. Tell me what you have to say and don't talk about whether or not you know this. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0225par0159	Yes, Mr. President, it's not a shame not to know, it's a shame not to know. Mr. Secretary, could you please... I'll send you these Supreme Court verdicts, I'll send you the court's decision. He says that earlier this was dues. Before this, the Foreign Economic Relations Board was a private sector institution, the private sector institution, TOBB, who put together some institutions under its own umbrella, formed a voluntary organization, which determines the dues they want in the voluntary organization, in any way they want to, that's something they're going to know.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0226par0161	It's not a voluntary organization, it's a law, it's a law.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0225par0162	But as soon as you get the Foreign Economic Relations Agency to state, it's going to be in the interest of...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0226par0163	You're still saying the same thing, it's not the DEA, it's the DEA's law.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0225par0164	It's the first time we've seen the ministers talk, go ahead, I'll listen to you on the side.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0226par0165	But I have to interfere with what you're saying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0225par0166	If you're going to state it, you're going to say, "If you're going to name the income of this by law, you can cut 1 per cent of the revenues of the company's companies by 1 per cent or 1 per cent by the Board of Directors." Look, look at the association of the Bar Association, look at the maintenance of other institutions, trading rooms -- you're the Ministry of TOBB. Look at the provision of TOB. See how the members' dues are assigned to you there, the traders who belong to the trading rooms. The law has set a lower boundary, an upper boundary, and between those limits, the dues are determined. In the past, it was 1 percent, and now we take 1 percent with regulations. You can't say that. Yes, it's not really a shame not to know -- it's a good saying -- it's a shame not to find out. I'll send Mr. Secretary his Constitutional Court verdicts and court decisions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0227par0170	Yes, thank you. Mr. Secretary, please don't make any promises, I won't. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 Yes, on behalf of the government, the third speaker is Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Omar Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0214	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as I begin speaking, I once again remember Professor Talat Sait Halman, the first Minister of Culture, intellectual and academic identity of the Republic of Turkey that we recently lost. We offer our sincerest condolences and condolences to his grieving family. What is the culture here, both in the budget debates in the Commission and in the General Assembly? What does the concept of culture contain, and how should it be understood? And I'm perfectly happy with these arguments, to tell you the truth. Depending on that, there are discussions about the suppression of culture, an ideological cover for culture, and there are various opinions about it, and I will share with you my views on all of them. Of course, in terms of the stability and permanence of the state, it's culture that makes up the software of the state in terms of any state and nation's march through history. Look, in a state's life, there are periods of ascension, periods of collapse. From time to time, you see states go to war, they win, they lose from time to time. The government's army can be destroyed, it can be destroyed, its navy can be destroyed, but after a while, a strong nation, a strong state, can rebuild its own army, its fleet, by stepping on all kinds of conditions. At times, the capitals of governments are bombed, all institutional infrastructures are destroyed, their economies are destroyed, but in history, governments and nations, whose march is large, can rebuild and renovate their own economies and institutions. Of course, there are those who do it, and there are those who can't. For example, there are nations that were destroyed when their army was destroyed, they never made the history scene again, there are people who were destroyed when it collapsed financially, but there are nations that can walk through history, despite all these disasters. The fundamental distinction, the culture, the cultural code of its march from yesterday to today, is that no matter what disaster happens, it resuscitates in history, but every nation without a cultural code that creates the government's software, the trajectory of the nation, is doomed to be destroyed. So we need to be aware that the essence of our march and permanence in history is our code of culture and civilization. We will establish and consolidate the government's software through all the cultures that exist in Asia Minor, and at the rate that we can achieve it in plural, we will establish both our social peace and our march through history. There's an example that I've given, for example, in political history, that a state called the Agetai state should never have stayed in our mind at all, because it took ten years, maybe 30 years, in total, but today we remember this state. Why do we remember? Because there's an indispensable contractor for human savings and history, Ali Shir Nevai. You can't understand the history of mankind, you can't ignore Ali Shir Nevai. Here is Ali Shir Nevaî, a contractor like him, who wrote in Çağatay Türkı, and thanks to Ali Şir Nevaî, because of his cultural savings, we remember Çağatai and because of him, the state of Çağatay is the language of the state of Çağatay. So this culture-state relationship is a striking example of how the government's march through history flows through culture. Which is a much more striking example in terms of major governments. There's a lot of debate about culture, there's a lot of definitions, but one of my favorite definitions is the definition of a German philosopher. It says: "Culture is the sum of a nation's capacity to solve problems. " I mean, you ask questions about your own geography, you ask questions about your own life, you deal with the savings you've brought from history, and you show a vision about walking to the future, and all of this defines itself in the concept of culture. It is one of the broadest concepts in this regard. For example, when we went to Afghanistan, we were told that only the Turkish commander can travel freely among the people here, without protection, only Turkish soldiers can travel. We thought that, at first, that our soldier had left Turkey, that the people there were closer to it, because he was a Muslim soldier. But then, one detail that the commander there gave us during the conversation showed how important a cultural code really is to get close to a public. The commander there said: "When I came to Afghanistan, this was my first commandment, and I said to all the soldiers: You will take off your sunglasses when you speak to the people. Because sunglasses have an effect of vanity on ordinary people, and you will make eye contact with these people. This is a message that only a person from within our culture can understand and convey to the other side. No other soldier can see through his cultural code that this eye contact should be needed when any NATO soldier there is talking to the people there, and that these sunglasses will have an effect of arrogance on them, but the Turkish soldier can see it through its practice, and it has fused with the public. I mean, we're talking about the simplest code of behavior in our everyday lives, and we're talking about the most basic cultural issues we're talking about today. Of course, the categories that we call "culture" and "art" and "politicality" are not completely separate, these are not the areas that do not interact. But, whether it's politics or economics or geography, all of this has to sit in an understanding of the present, of a historical perspective, of the world today. In this regard, the basic approach must be civility and pluralism. If there's one area of governmentism and ideology that radicalism doesn't apply, it's a cultural area. See, both Samarkand and Istanbul and Nizamiye Medresesi and Enderun and Orhun, and Mesnevi and Hodja Ahmet Yesevi and Yunus Emre and Tonyuk and Nizamülmülk and Fakiye Teyran and Ahmadi are the cornerstones of our ancient civilization. It allows us to have a world of meaning beyond our great cultural geography, political and geographical borders, and a larger geography, a larger civilization horizon. And because of these, we can find our way back to one of these references, to redraw it, whenever we're trapped in our march through history, whenever we're faced with difficulty. In this regard, every element of cultural material we have is extremely valuable. Studies in modern psychology show that the more they go back in their own personal history, the more sophisticated and subtle their dreams of the future are. This certainly applies to communities. A society's relationship with the past is a matter that directly determines what vision it should have for the future. Jamil Meric would have no recipe for non-historic. This is exactly what it means to say. If you do not have a realistic view of your history, of your own past, you cannot place your vision of the future on solid foundations. In this regard, it's also very meaningful in the context of the Ottoman debates that we have today -- the writing works that make up the most important part of our heritage, one of the most valuable parts. Our dear friends have mentioned it here, and I thank them. As our first and only book healer in Solomonia serves not only us, but our own writing works, it is also capable of serving demands from many parts of the world, and I would like to convey to you that we are very proud of the way this works. Of course, when the culture issue was discussed here, the concept of pluralism was also discussed directly. We see it around us, too. When there's no pluralism around us, when there's a problem with pluralism, what comes our way is that one type of approach brings us in and leaves us with direct violence. Nine countries around us have become unmanageable. In most of these countries there is severe violence. At the heart of this is that the one who has the power, the one who has the gun, is trying to paint an entire community in a single color, for ethnic, religious or religious reasons. Those who do not give life to others, who bomb their churches, mosques, attack their centers of faith, and who do so for the sake of radicalism, they aim to build a monotheism world. And the common component of all of these, whatever religion, whatever ideology, whatever country they are, is to be opposed to other pluralism, to be against other colors, and to create one world. We say with great pride that as the children of a country that holds this great heritage of pluralism, we do our best to improve it, to improve it. Thus, in this regard, the Ministry of Culture's mission to protect elements of all cultures, not just one culture, but also one assignment, has been repeated over and over again as a reminder. We think it's our mission, and we're determined that our cultural life should flow through pluralism and civility. The cycle between culture and man, especially in multicultural lands like our country, gives the government this task. We have to protect all identities, remove rejection, denial and assimilation policies on identities, but not only that, we also have to make it possible for the repatriated identities, the suspended identities, the covered identities to develop themselves. We have a great teacher, who often guides us with his ancient and wise approach, whenever we come to a historical issue, when we enter into a conceptual deadlock, when we approach him: Ibn Haldun, our great teacher. There's one thing Ibn Haldun. He says: Geography is destiny. The destiny of geography brings you a mission, a function and a table in two ways; either you'll misunderstand the fate of your geography, you'll shut down, you'll cut off contact with the outside world, you'll build an introverted approach instead of stepping on the land of your own country and watching an entire universe. From the moment you do that, that's when you break off your relationship with the universal one, you have a monopoly in your own country, and you're cut off from the different cultures within your own country. One type of monotheism, monopoly and oppression, pushing into cultural life, it's in this frame, but if you do another, you can build a big mission for your own country, your own nation, because geography is fate. It's this: you're going to see your place as part of the human family, and you're going to see that being a part of this human family exists with all the cultural elements, all the ideological identities, all the political identities, and you're going to talk to the world from here. Here, the transformation of geography into a fate that serves man, nation, and state, and the transformation of geography into a mission like this that is destined to be a destiny, and that is where we are faced with the right relationship with pluralism on the human, nation and state axis. All of this, in fact, is the concept of telling the story of a nation, the culture of a nation. Tourism, of course, has a close relationship with it. When a nation tells its own story to humanity, it is the basis of the concept of tourism. In this regard, tourism is actually the basis of our human diplomacy strategy. As it is known, Turkey is the sixth in terms of the number of foreign visitors to Turkey, and it increases its revenues by almost 10 per cent when revenues are increasing by 3-4 per cent in the world, which is also higher than the World Tourism Organization's data in the number of foreign visitors coming in. Now we're talking about some things here. Often, unfortunately, although some answers have been given, some of our friends are constantly repeating themselves, and I feel the need to address them as well. They keep talking about pressure and censorship, and they add, "Art should be free, and art should be opposed no matter what. I agree 100%. Where there's no freedom, there's no art. If you talk about art where there is no freedom, it will become a Stalinist-led propaganda system, or you will come to what Hitler's propaganda minister Göring has said. He used to say that when I was told about culture, my hand goes to my gun. And art must surely be opposing, but it's clear that opposition is also driven, friends, not just the direction of power, but just the opposition to a certain line, to a certain approach, but other than that, salutation to the status quo is actually an opposition to a certain line, but it's the driving of another power relationship. So, yes, you should never forget that -- this sentence is important -- some friends of ours said, "The real art eventually wins." They said, "I agree 100 percent, and I underline the real thing, and the real art eventually wins." Therefore, when someone talks about the need for art to be opposite here, let them not resort to those word games that we have seen throughout the history of the republic, in their own pockets, in their own ideological warehouses, in which they see art as an element. We know what this is about.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0229par0230	What are we going to do about the wrestling director's drink of the Istanbul Grand City, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0231	See, now, a dear friend of ours said here that art and culture should not contradict our national, spiritual values, the sensitivities of the nation. A phrase in the form of a totalitarian regime is the most important recipe of all. For example, Hitler's Germany, although not Jewish, has banned all the elements of art, literature. Now, it's very important that a debate like Hitler's Germany... should be opened. Now, I'd like to give you some reminders of our own history. What I'm saying is that no matter what ideological identity each artist has...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0230par0233	What happened in 1930? Tell me, come on!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0234	...that's none of my business, but no art institution can be ruled by ideological custody. We don't allow any art institution to be ruled by ideological custody.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0231par0236	Do wrestlers rule, Mr. Secretary, wrestlers?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0237	See, it is often said that politics has been involved in art here. Friends, let everyone know, why do Republican People's Party spokesman skip all the arts and only talk about State Theatre and State Opera and Ballet?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0232par0240	We're talking about everything.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0241	Once again, State Theaters and State Opera and Ballet depend on my Ministry, not the Republican People's Party. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Now, in the context of these language debates, look, there were two institutions that did the ideological propaganda mentioned during the single party -- all the academics in the world say that -- one of them is the community homes, the other is the village institutes. And by means of these village institutes and public homes, whatever the Republican People's Party today claims about the culture and art of the AK PARTY was done by CHP. Look, do you know what the mission was to public homes and public rooms? To discipline the masses and embrace the party's principles.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0233par0244	You're 80 years old again!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0245	Look, we see this model in Germany and Italy during the Hitler and Mussolini era. As a matter of fact, Kemal Tahir says that the reason for the village institutes was to produce human material that would be sent to war if Turkey were to go to war in World War II, and that the only party at the time had adapted the village institutions to Turkey because of the organisation of the German Nazi Party Youth Arms.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0233par0246	Not at all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0234par0247	Not at all, not at all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0248	Look, come in, look at academic studies, there's a lot of serious work done at universities. Look at these studies, both the academic studies of scientists and foreign scientists in Turkey, and some of their graduate studies and doctoral thesis on these institutions.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0233par0249	You tell stories all the time!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0250	I recommend to everyone in particular that you enter culture and art policies in the Republic, and you will face a lot of academic thesis. And even if you look for something more specific, my special advice is this: enter in the period culture and art policies, and you'll find something much more striking. Look, now, over the Ottoman debate these days, something has been said on this stand that doesn't apply to justice at all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0233par0252	%1 per cent reading and writing, 1%.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0253	Go to the arguments at the time, see what's been said there. In the founding years of the Republic, no doubt...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0233par0254	Does anybody know how to read and write?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0255	I'll get to the reading and writing thing. ...arabic and Persian words have been debriefed, while very important policies have been formulated about trying to replace Latin and Greek words. And if it's said that the language had to be simplified then to increase the rate of reading and writing, if it was trying to understand the culture of the nation, well, let's come, look, the approach at the time was exactly like this: with the simplicity of language, it's not the emergence of an approach to people to understand their language more. That's exactly what it does: 1. It was also expressed at Maarif Shûra...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0235par0257	Mr. Secretary, what are you talking about? Come to this day, to this day!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0258	And what was brought there was the name of this Jacob Gadri, and of Jacob Kadri Karaosmanoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0235par0259	Get to the point!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0236par0260	Come to this day, to this day!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0261	It's what he calls a new Greek movement. At that time, national education ministers at the time call it the deployment of humanism into Turkey. They say, "Let's bring humanism and Turkish culture together and get a place in the world and we'll extract Arabic and Persian words for it, instead of Latin and Greek words." Look, 1. That's exactly what Cevat Dursunoglu in the Maarif Congress says, at the time of all of this, the speakers of the politicians at the time, and he says: "Latin and Greek should be made mandatory for the formation. So I think there's a remarkable benefit to those who argue in Ottomans today to go to the rest of these discussions; they'll have very healthy results. Now, there's talk of this theater and the pressure and... look, friends, this much support is being given in Turkey, it's been backed up by about 227. Our friends say: "You support those who are close to you. You will put 227 theatres -- these are private theaters -- into what ideological molds -- and then you will test them for your own political approach, and then you will create a criteria, and in the framework of this criteria -- you will send resources to the people.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0237par0264	You know how it is!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0265	That's a lie from head to toe. Look, I'm telling you clearly, the point is that our culture and art lives are one of the most distant areas of reform. There are some ideological leaders here, and you won't live in that neighborhood until you get the residential information from those ideological leaders. My job as Minister of Culture is to offer young people in that neighborhood, young artists who want to find a presence in those neighborhoods, opportunities to play a role in this country's culture and art life, without knowing that they are from Yozgat to Samsun. But if there's any mention of censorship, I'll tell you: Look, it's an article from the Republican Public Party's Secretary General on March 30, 1945.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0238par0267	You went back again!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0239par0268	Come to this day, to this day!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0269	Look, he says that since a theatre called Poyrazoglu is not permitted from the Republican People's Party headquarters...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0240par0270	Fifty years from now, they'll tell you, and 50 years from now, they'll write you down, don't worry. They'll write down what you've done in 50 years.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0241par0271	Tell me about the wrestling referee.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0272	From the Republican People's Party headquarters, there is a ban on playing this game because it has not been granted visas, and nowhere is a writing written to all public houses to prevent it from being played in public homes, writing number 5/26. If you're not so afraid of your own past, you can open it and read it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, what we need to see is whether you call it the past or the future, it's a matter of...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0242par0275	You've forgotten 1930, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0276	If you're talking about this today, completely unintended, some censorship, pressure, oppression, this, you're going to want a full pluralism, you're going to want freedom for everyone.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0243par0277	Tell me about Ottoman.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0242par0278	Minister, you've said 1945, you've forgotten 1930.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0279	For the rest of the time, I once again bring public attention to all the arts and why are you only dealing with two institutions? Why don't you just make these two institutions feel like they're your backyard?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0243par0280	It's your backyard, honey, you told me!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0244par0281	You made a backyard, you made a backyard.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0228par0282	...the implementation of general policies, as all pluralistic policies should be implemented in Turkey, you object to the implementation of pluralistic policies around here. To the public's attention, you've run these institutions so liberally, why haven't you played the Necip Fazil games for decades in the past? We say let Nazim Hikmet be played, let Necip Fazil be played, let all games be played. So pluralism and civility are not just a matter of rhetoric. Pluralism and civility are indeed the product of a mental approach, but it also requires the right political policies. Look, cultural life isn't just about the left-wing left-winger, the AK PARTY, the CHP or the others. Cultural life is the future of this nation, the legacy of the children of this country. So the more you take this issue out of political competition, the more political hostility you keep it out of, the more you serve this country. This is an area that we all need to support, that we all need to strengthen. The basis of the policies you're talking about today is that because we've saved areas under political hegemonia from this political hegemonia, it's called: "The arts are getting involved in politics." (Aka, not in art, we remove the political hegemony established on art and culture, where we bring cultural pluralism, where we're only trying to support those who are known, not just under the guardians of some ideological muhtars, but all the children of Anatolia, from all cultures, from all cultures, from all ethnic groups, from all ethnic groups, and from all cultures of Anatolia. That's our approach. Other than that, the culture field is an area that should be left entirely in the civilian area. We're just going to keep this area. We're going to open up this area. We're going to do everything we can to free this area. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you for their support and respect for the High Council.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0245par0287	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0246par0288	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0245par0289	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0246par0290	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made unrealistic assessments of our party by going to the one-party period of the Republican People's Party in his speech, I give you my word.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0245par0291	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0246par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I expected a different assessment from the Minister, but I'm afraid he misled me. He, like Mr. Davutoglu or Mr. Erdogan, sought legitimacy by taking tweezer samples from there. For one thing, I don't think the samples he gave were accurate. All he talks about is a party-time app, and he wants to bring it in and have it debated here all the time. Mr. Secretary, look, you're the Minister of Culture. Until you, the Justice and Development Party has had many culture ministers. We have also criticised those culture ministers, but none of them received the criticism you received. We'll do this. The culture ministers who served up to you were unable to succeed, to transform culture and art. Now you're saying that the State Theaters and the State Opera and the Ballet do not belong to the Republican People's Party. It's up to me, I'll do what I want. You can't do it, Mr. Secretary, you can't do it, so come on in. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0247par0299	Isn't that a threat?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0246par0300	People, people, people won't do it. Second, you're saying that I'm going to reform art and culture. The concept of reform in art and culture is jacoben understanding. On the hill, the project to transform society, where management, the minister, the prime minister, the government, culture, art, and those who love it are below, with a hierarchical relationship between the government and them, community engineering. We reject that, Mr. Secretary. Give me an example of this censorship! You didn't interfere in the games, your Ministry didn't interfere? You're not going to play this game. Didn't you say? Let's see this game first, then we'll let you or we won't let you. Didn't you say? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Didn't your municipality remove the game -- the mind of Göktay -- while playing the game in Istanbul? Why don't you get into these? Please answer these questions instead of going to the one-party period. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0307	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0308	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0309	Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0310	I got picked on, too.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0311	What's with the teasing, sir?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0312	In my words, he spoke of a national, spiritual statement.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0313	But he didn't mention your name, Mr. Kaleli, as I recall.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0314	He didn't mention my name, but he quoted me.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0250par0315	He used the same sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0316	No, what did he say, quote, criticize or tease?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0317	He quoted my words by saying the same sentence in a different way. The nationals use spiritual values as an important prescription for totalitarian regimes.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0248par0318	Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0249par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. If you take a look at the book "Strategic Depth," you will find that Mr. Davutoglu has taken advantage of the three different theories of Hitler's geopolitical expert Haushofer. It's a living space. That means: embrace, rule, embrace cultural imperialism and approach to the spreading policy of archaic understanding. (Hinterland: Opening up economic space, not wanting small countries to have large spaces, seeing the whole place as your father's farm. And the third is to be in the position of the central country. I mean, we put ourselves at the center of everything, and we evaluate democracy according to our values. Even as the sun sets, we pull the game from the stage with this sense of democracy that we make up for our values. We tie everything to the outside, we don't take political responsibility. The success of the Hegemonia rule is independence, being an industrial society, moving away from religious references. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0251par0328	Thank you. Now, the Fair Zozani who has asked for a word against himself...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0252par0330	Mr. President, for a very long time, I've been in the system to take a short statement. In the general assembly, when the group's vice presidents want to take a short statement, the Presidential Court generally appreciates and uses it. We're asking you...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0251par0331	Mr. Baluken, one second, I didn't realize that you wanted to say something because there's a lot of words here, not that we haven't made your promise. Go ahead, but you don't have to do anything right away. Just remind me what you want to say. We're already giving it to the members of the group. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0252par0333	So we've been waiting a long time.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0251par0334	No, that's not the way you see it. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0252par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been promised both to inform the General Assembly and to inform him and to ask questions. Today, the condolence tent of Jezebel Bulut, who lost his life in the resistance in Kobani, was severely intervened by police. The images of this intervention, indeed, Mr. Secretary, are embarrassing for mankind. I'm talking about this reckless, street-to-street torture that falls on social media as if it's tearing the mouth off of a young man who participates in the condolence. We, the People's Democratic Party, strongly condemn this middle-of-the-street torture, those who did, and those who gave this instruction from here. We remind you from here that the police' job is to hand those who committed the crime over to the judge, even if there's anything in any social event that might constitute a criminal element. Especially in all cultures, beliefs, religions, political ethics, and funerals, it's a tradition of human beings to respect. Those who lose that respect lose their humanity, too. I'd also like to ask our Home Secretary if this middle-of-the-street torture practice is being carried out by a central directive, or if there's anyone out there doing it on their own initiative. If it's not a central directive, I'd like to ask if an investigation into it was launched here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0253par0342	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 Now, on behalf of himself, Adil Zozani, Hakkari MP. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0254par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I've been going over the budget of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economics for a long time, whether or not I can make a common sentence of these three budgets. Because that's what happened in the House's study program. The budgets, which have nothing to do with each other, have been put together and evaluated. I assume that from morning hours until this hour, if we have citizens who are willing to listen and watch, I think they have not achieved a integrity in our talks, I think we're torturing them. But I said, "I've pushed too hard." I said, "I'll find something in common, I'll try to find it; I've found valuable MPs." I'll try to share with you now what I found in common. The province is the property of the people and the people of the city. In addition to foreign and domestic politics, evil, legal and military Üstýr, Beyn-el-national Ükkaf, Medaris, Maaris, Maıf, Sıhîti, İkti, Nayâtıt, Nayatı, İnyat and Üsıtı, Üstüsı, Üstı, Üstüstı, Üstüsı, Üsın Üsımün, Üsın Üsımüsımün Üsın, Üsımüsımüsımün Üsımýn Üsı, Üsımýn Ün Ün Üsı, Üsımımýmımımı Ün Ün Ün Ün, Ün Ün Ün Ün Üsımımımımımımımımımımı Ümı Üsımı Ümı Üsımımı Ümı Ümı, Üsı Üsı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Üsımımı Üsı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümımımımımımı Ümı Üsı Ümı Ümı Ütı Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ü Ümı Ümı Ümı Üsı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Üsı Ümı, Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Ümı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı Üsı
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0255par0389	What did you say? Let's use an interpreter.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0254par0390	One, I read Ottoman, it concerns the Ministry of Culture, I set up that context. The Minister of Culture has a saying to us in Ottoman language -- which is now in the Parliamentary Library -- that will simplify and simplify the book of Shamseddin Sami. For those of you who don't know, they'll know where Kurdistan is, and the Minister of Culture has spoken to us. Second, he mentioned economics. It was expressed as to how a city's economics would be. In part, it concerns the Ministry of Economics, you can make a connection there, but the Ministry of Economics has been misstated, and you're considering the budget here as the Ministry of Economics, but the issues that Mr. Minister shares with us are not part of the field of a Ministry of Economy because it's about foreign trade, it's the foreign trade ministry. If his name were listed as the foreign trade ministry, we'd have the right connection here. Third, you can fully understand the administrative issues from the same text, which in a way tells you what we mean by the process of solutions. For those of you who don't know, the text I've just read is the 11th Article of the Constitution of 1921, which is the expression of responsibility, which is the 11th Article of the Constitution of 1921. That's why we call it the founding philosophy of the republic, the founding philosophy of the republic, which doesn't meet that single-mindedness, doesn't meet that single-mindedness, doesn't meet rejection and denial, which is 1924. Here's my chance to evaluate the three ministries together. So We do not seek to divide it. Let it be yours to divide, to divide, and to divide, and to make it ours. We are in the zeal for integration. In three concepts, we're saying that we're going to put a growing fan of Turkey on a growing course. As the People's Democratic Party, Turkey shares this with the public. One, freedom. Let's say two: democracy. We say three: it's a voluntary union of the people. On these three concepts, we think we can integrate Turkey, pave the way for Turkey. To this end, the meetings of the party's delegation, their delegations, with the Imralı, and with the Kandil, are the honor pages of our history, our party's history. I'd like to rephrase that from the council bench once again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I tell you to remember, you're not living on this budget. This budget is not a budget that sustains humanity. Therefore, the state has been compromised because you failed to keep a man alive. We, the philosophy that I've just expressed, are saying that we're going to get the government out of this difficult situation, and we're hoping that this budget will take a human dimension, and unfortunately that doesn't exist, so we're the opposition, we're the opposition, we're going to vote against it, we're going to vote against it, we're going to vote against it, we're going to vote against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0256par0397	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0257par0398	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0256par0399	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0257par0400	Mr. President, right now, the text that was just read about the 1921 Constitution does not speak of any amount of responsibility if we translate it into Turkish. The mayor's a very different thing, the meaning here is something completely different. If you want, if you open it, I can tell you from where I'm sitting.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0258par0401	Is he going to answer if he's being sarcastic?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0256par0402	No, sir, since he's Deputy Director of the Group, the way we just gave it to Mr. Baluken... Otherwise, there's no picking on me. I didn't promise to pick on you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0257par0405	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 11 of the 1921 Constitution states: "The province, the property of the property is the property of the property and the property of the property of the property and its property. You will see what is the property of the property and the property of the constitution here a little later. You will see that the state and internal politics, the evil name and military shall say that there is no such thing as the institution, except for the Constitution, the Constitution and the Constitution, the Constitution, the Constitution and the Constitution, and the Constitution, and the Constitution, and the Constitution, and the Constitution, shall not be a part of its affairs, and it shall be a thing of the United States, as well as a matter of the Constitution and the Constitution.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0259par0407	Mr. President, I'd like to say something from my position.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0257par0408	On the other hand, if you're just here... the Ottomans are with me. ==Early life==Semseddin said it was related to Sami (Semseddin Sami)'s book, but much earlier than that, in 1340, it was described as "Kürdistan" in the work of Hamdullah Mustafa Kazvini: the Arab, Huzistan, Iraq, Iraq, Iraq, Azerbaijan and Diyarbakır. The province of Diyarbakır is now a separate province. From the edge of the province of Diyarbakır to the inside of Iraq, Acem and Sair represent these places. There's a map of it, there's a line. Thus, Turkey is not a place that has anything to do with Anatolia. You just don't know the old form of Diyarbakır province in Turkey in 1847. He's talking about the old province, not today's province, he's talking about the Ottoman province. It extends all the way to Al Jazeera, the province of Diyarbakır to the bottom of Al Jazeera. On the other hand...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0410	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0257par0411	Sir, wait a minute... we need to explain, we need to explain.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0412	You've explained, sir, you've explained.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0261par0413	Wait a second... it's important.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0414	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0262par0415	Now, in these areas, he's talking about a Kurdistan. The Ottoman state was founded only in 1847 and only in Kurdistan, after the Treaty of Tanzimat. He remained on his feet for 17 years, and after 17 years, he was eliminated in 1864. In fact, the fact that it was founded in 1847 is evidence that it was not before him. Therefore, the province was formed for a political reason, and then disappeared. As for the crowd-ul-a-lam, when you read the back of the next written chapter of the prophecy, it also shows what it means and who it was taken from, and I quote it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0417	Well, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0263par0419	Mr. President, on my five-minute speech on the stand, the Deputy Director of the Group made a six-minute assessment. I'll be up for six minutes, reviewing for the record.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0264par0420	Took you long enough to correct your wrongs.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0421	But, Mr. Zozani, we don't have the procedure. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0263par0422	You objected before you even started, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0423	Sir?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0263par0424	You objected before it even started.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0425	No, I object, of course, my dear, I object to the procedure, it's my right.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0263par0426	I'll tell you what, here's the deal.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0427	So, the Deputy President of the Group spoke for six minutes, and I'll talk to him. Is there such a procedure? Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0263par0429	Continuity in the state is essential. The archives of the state, the history of the state, are common. In the meantime...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0430	Sit down, I promise you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0265par0431	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0432	Please, it's not about teasing, it's about explaining.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0265par0433	There's bullying, there's misinformation from the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0266par0434	He gave us historical information.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0435	Mr. Baluken says he'll make a statement on the matter. There's no bullying here in front of all of us, sir. Please...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0265par0436	No, he said the General Assembly was given false information about the 11th Amendment.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0437	It's an important matter, so let him make his statement, sir. Here you go, Mr. Zozani.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0267par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you'll recognize the same grant in terms of time, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0442	No, sir, it's not.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0267par0443	If you say one minute, I won't talk at all.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0260par0444	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0267par0445	Thank you. Now, one is that we suggest to the National Movement Party that if the Article 1921 Constitution does not have an autonomy, then we ask that the Nationalist Movement Party and the Nationalist Movement Party in Turkey, in terms of the reconstruction and design of its administrative and political structure, be registered in this way as the 11th Article of the Constitution of 1921 shall be registered in their works, and I hope they will accept it. Secondly, Mr. Halaçoglu is very hard on himself, so he's trying very hard to reboot historically, but Sultan Senser lived before 1830, and the relationship between Yavuz Sultan Selim and İdris Bitlisî (Idris Bitlisi) is a long time ago. In what framework were Kurdistan and the relationship they expressed? Let's see it clearly and clearly together...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0268par0448	Mr. President, do we have to listen to this?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0269par0449	Mr. Zozani, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0267par0450	Now, Kurdish people are an ancient people in Middle Eastern geography. You came later, we formed a partnership. From time to time, we believe that we will build a new future together. That's what I just said from the podium. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0269par0452	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 Yes, lawmakers, the talks on the fifth round are complete. The question-answer process will now be done. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0270par0495	Mr. President, thank you. My first question to Mr. Home Secretary: Mr. Ala, three years ago, I asked him about the building that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security is currently using, in writing. The answer was given by Mr. Secretary at the time, about the construction of the B and C blocks, but the A block had not been answered about the construction of block A, for how long, how long is it, the tenders? I haven't been responded to in three years. I want to know how much renovations have been made on block A. My second question, Mr. Çelik: Mr. Putin came to Turkey recently, you know, when he arrived, at the reception, we later learn that some of the members of the State Theatres were sent there as an animator. And Tolstoy, and Pushkin, in their guise, met Putin. Do you have any knowledge that these artists of State Theaters are being sent there? Is it in your knowledge? Do you find this application correct? So as an animator, do you find it right for these artists to go out there and animation? If you think it's true, will this practice continue at other events, other demonstrations? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0271par0499	Thank you. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0272par0501	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Home Secretary: 300 Uygur Turks from the Chinese state have escaped from Taiwan due to persecution. These people have applied to come to Turkey, but Turkey does not accept these people. If Turkey doesn't take it, Taiwan has announced to China that it will send these people back. Being sent back to China means being sentenced to life imprisonment and death penalty. Do you, as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the government, work on this? Are we leaving these people to their fate? Second, I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture what books have you published and distributed about our national culture for two years? And the third, I'd like to ask the Minister of Economy: was the AKP's 19th stand-by agreement with the IMF on 11/05/2005? This agreement says $10 billion in loans, correct? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0273par0506	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0274par0508	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, every year 290,000 of our citizens travel to the pilgrimage and the Umre. TOURSAB agencies charge about $10 per person. Does your Ministry have any control over this tuition? With the religious monopoly on Hajj and Umre, agencies face unfair competition. Do you intend to take measures to prevent the government from being unfairly competitive with the private sector? Is the government for developing the private sector, or is it for competition? I'd like to ask our Home Secretary: Why was this SRC canceled on the day of the exam -- how much money was invested, people were waiting -- why was it canceled? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0275par0512	Thank you. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0276par0514	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior: At times, it is announced that the PKK has broken the agreement in Oslo. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't know about this treaty, does the Council of Ministers know about it? There's an agreement out there that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the public don't know about. Do you describe such a government as a democracy? Two: PKK and Imran prisoners occasionally provide threatening demand calendars, asking for their demands to be met. None of their threats are being carried out at the end of the deadline. That means he gets what he wants at certain rates. How many people and what institutions know the contents of the package? Three: When did the government's former friend, confidante, new enemy become a threat to the parallel structure, evidence, document, information, evidence, trace, evidence, evidence, and evidence enter into your records, what decision was made, when action was made? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0277par0519	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0278par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Home Secretary, is that we know that the synthetic drug that's been on the agenda in our country recently has been spreading rapidly with a frequent increase in deaths and suicides. To what do you refer most of all, particularly, to the fact that the site of this was most common between 2011 and 2013? That's my first question. Second question: Mr. Minister, regarding this matter, I called the Chief Constable's Office of Police General Directorate, the Chairman of the Office of the People's Party of the Republic, and I asked to speak to the Committee of the People's Party, and the secretary's response is, which of our MPs is this? What party are you calling from? We'll get back to you. They said, "They haven't returned in a week." I wonder if there's any instructions you've given me. Why are the secretaries or the Director General asking the MP what political party he's calling from? If you answer, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0279par0524	Thank you. Mr. Pine...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0280par0526	Thank you. I'm asking our Home Secretary: Mr. Minister, there's an absolute AKP majority here, but you've been appointed from outside as Minister; I want to know if you've now carried out your membership in the AKP. My second question to you again is how many people have been processed on reasonable suspicion these days when the security package is in effect. Thirdly, the governors' pension fees are perfectly normal, but the governors are in a lot of trouble. Do you have any preparation for 6400 indicators for my sub-committees, do you have any work? Our police friends are having a particularly big problem with retirement, and everyone we see at the door says: "For nearly 20 years, many governments have come and gone, but they haven't removed the 3600 indicators. Is there any study on 3600 indicators? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0281par0532	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0282par0534	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Home Secretary, the judge's first-class property manager's salary was as long as the new judge's salary with the final arrangement of prosecutor's salaries. Do you have any interest in equating property manager's salaries to judges, prosecutor's salaries? You've been promising the cops for years. Do you have any work to meet the police's demands for additional indicators and overwork? Do you have any work on improving the rights of qualified gendarmes, which are up to 25,000? Again, Mr. President, the parallelists stole questions and settled in certain institutions. When parallelists were asking questions, what was the current Prime Minister, today's President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the AKP's government doing? Mr. Minister of Tourism, not even 25 per cent of historical sites in the district of Mugla have been organised and opened to tourism. Do you have any serious work on organizing and opening this remaining 75 percent to tourism? One year's excavations are lost before the next year, because work around here has been given very little funding, and these areas are being destroyed. Do you plan to transfer funds to this area, planned and programmed, to prevent this destruction? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0283par0541	Thank you. Mr. Aldan...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0284par0543	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to Economy Minister Mr. Nihat Zeybekci: What percentage of exports we export to countries we import oil to? Second question, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ömer Çelike: In his 25-minute speech, the Minister has divided only one sentence into tourism. In these budget talks, he didn't mention anything financial. The Ministry of Tourism has not yet been appointed after Mr. Ertugrul Günay. When will he take time from the People's Republican Party (CHP) and general policy and face the problems of the tourist? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0285par0547	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0286par0548	I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Culture first, or rather, I'd like to make a point. Our colleagues at Gazi University, the professors, gave them to us. You know the presidential building, it's a historical building there. It's built on land from the farm at the request of Ataturk. It's wrongly restored. An elevator is being built into a two-story building that has no apparent purpose. Sir, the walls are being renovated against the original. In the name of Turkish art and architecture, Mr. Secretary, I submit to your knowledge that this may be called a massacre. And I strongly urge Mr. Home Secretary to respond. Petty officers, officers, specialist sergeants, civil servants, all of them, I mean, do you plan to improve their wages and their rights? And put the property manager in this.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0287par0551	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0288par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Zeybekci: 2002 to 2013 or 2014; My first question to Mr. Ala is that although the population was over 2,000 people in 2012, the victims of some towns, including the village of Simav district of Kütahya province, which was converted into a village according to the population of 2011, have not been solved. When will the judicial process of some cities still be resolved, what is our minister's opinion? Second...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0289par0562	Thank you. Mr. Spectacle...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0290par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question to the Minister of Economy is: Mr. Secretary, the growth and current relationship in the Central Future Program seems to be problematic. Of course, in the years when the economy grew up on net exports, its current account deficit was dwindling, and its growth rate was slow. As a matter of fact, the growth rate in the first nine months of 2014 is 2.8%. Almost all of this stems from net exports, the domestic demand's contribution is 0.1. And when you look at it from this angle, it's normal to reduce the current deficit, but in 2015-2017, the growth rate will be 4.7 percent compared to the OVP, and that will be based entirely on domestic demand, and you're also saying that it's growth due to net exports, and on the other hand, how are you going to raise the current account deficit from 46 billion dollars in 2014 to $50.7 billion in 2017? I mean, in a year when the economy grew...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0289par0567	Thank you. Mr. Keskin...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0291par0569	My question to Mr. Home Secretary, sir, is that the parallel structure has been linked to unsolved murders. Is there any evidence in your ministry? Has there been any investigation into Hussain Avni Cos when he was governor of Adana? Will you allow this person to remain in office? 24 people lost their lives under the wreckage of the Bayram Hotel, which collapsed in the Van earthquake. Investigation of Van Governor and AFAD executives at the end of the investigation has been broken by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that there has been no effective and deterrent investigations, that it has violated its right to live. Will you allow the governor and the AFAD administration to stand trial? Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0292par0573	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Little, please.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0293par0575	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism: the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Evaluation Commission has announced that theaters with Ministry support will not be supported for the next six months. What is the reason for this decision that puts private theaters in a position where they can't function or continue their projects? Do you think such support is healthy? My second question: What was the outcome of the protocol signed by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality to build the Museum of Civilisation in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0294par0579	Thank you. Fifteen minutes of questions asked. Mr. Ministers, I'll give you five minutes each. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0295par0583	Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will answer some questions in writing, and I will answer some of them verbally. As for the Uygur Turks, we're really on top of the issue -- I'll send it graphically to our member of parliament later -- very delicately. We're also aware of the issue here, and the State Department and I are actually doing it from that day forward, but it may not be right for me to offer more, more detailed information. And you know how sensitive this is, but thank you, so we really need to stick together on this. We're on top of the issue, I assure you with the same precision. Regarding the Oslo Agreement... dear friends, Oslo, if it hadn't been sabotaged, it would have been the beginning of a process where we could have achieved much better results for Turkey... if we hadn't collaborated with some of the other foreign organisations or intelligence organizations there, but I'll tell you this: what you promised, what you promised, what you agreed, what you agreed? Dear friends, we're promising a forward democracy, we're promising this advanced democracy, we're promising the nation, sir, and we're offering the people we're talking to about this problem. Our political policy is an advanced, advanced rights democracy. Police headquarters is calling from the party...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0296par0589	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't know that. We're learning from foreign intelligence. How beautiful!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0295par0590	Sir, I beg you, look, we're thirsty...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0296par0591	But that's not the point of the question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0295par0592	It's beautiful, it's civilized -- I salute -- it's a beautiful conversation. It's really our most important achievement.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0296par0593	We salute you with respect, but answer the content of the question.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0295par0594	You may not be accepting anything I say. It's not my job to convince you. It's my job to convince the citizens of the question you've given, the question you've asked... your goal, my goal, 77 million people, citizens, or else we'll have separate parties.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0297par0595	Mr. Secretary, let us know what's in it.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0295par0596	Now, Chief Constable...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0298par0597	Mr. Secretary, look, I'm saying, does the Council of Ministers know? Mr. Taller... The Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't know!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0299par0600	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0298par0601	You'll tell me if the Council of Ministers knows or doesn't know.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0300par0602	He doesn't know what, brother, what, what?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0298par0603	Does the Council of Ministers know about the Oslo meeting or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0300par0604	I'm telling you, I'm telling you, we've promised advanced democracy. What more can I say?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0298par0605	Do the ministers know, or do they not know, the contents of Oslo?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0300par0606	Look, what he said was...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0301par0607	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0300par0608	Guys, I...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0301par0609	Let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0302par0610	Does the Council of Ministers know or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0301par0611	Mr. Longhorn, would you please sit down...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0302par0612	Does the Grand National Assembly of Turkey know or not?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0301par0613	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0302par0614	Is there anything they don't know about democracy? That's the problem...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0303par0615	Sir, what would the test take if you poured it out, as he said?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0302par0616	It's not what I promised. Don't kid the kid. What are you promising? I'm not saying you don't understand!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0304par0617	What a shame!
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0303par0618	If a secretary there asks which party are you calling from, she's doing it terribly wrong. Did you give such instruction, I suppose you asked? I'll take that as a real distraction. That can't happen. And he's, if that's the case, we'll do it, so it shouldn't be asked. When our esteemed lawmakers call, they take notes, ties, does what's necessary, so that can't happen, friends, not even an example of something like this.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0305par0619	Even the cops are asking.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0303par0620	There have been some issues of rights with our officers, with membership, with the trustees and others, with our police, with our gendarmes, and I want to thank you. We are, of course, working within the general system of Turkey, and of course, we need a staff regime reform. And as far as they're concerned, there's something wrong with them, and there's something wrong with them, they're being cleared up. There's something wrong here, too. We're working on them, we're working on them, and we're working on them. But I'm going to find a plea against our esteemed lawmakers.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0621	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0303par0622	We need to think about what kind of additional demands they're going to bring to them in Turkey, together. It's like this: you know, sometimes at the assistant manager level...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0623	Mr. Secretary, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0303par0625	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0626	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0307par0627	President, our questions remain.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0308par0628	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0629	Mr. Longwalk, answer the questions, then. Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0308par0630	Well, I'm finally gonna get the promise of a pick-me-up.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0631	That's not the way it works.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0309par0632	Will he answer in writing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0306par0633	Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0310par0634	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers have asked a question regarding the appointment of members of State Theatres in a program held in honor of Russian President Vladimir Putin, who came to Turkey as an invitation from our President. Of course, I know all about these assignments. But what's sad here is that I'm sorry to hear about the congressman's question, but there's been a very provocative and false report in the Republican newspaper. This false report mentions something that some players are uncomfortable with this event without being named. But when you read the bottom of the story, you can see that they made such a report as a product of an uncomfortable or jealous approach to the appointment of those involved in that event, and I often come across them. Of course, Mr. President is the head of our state, Mr. President, in an event in which he is involved in any institution of the state, especially in a dinner programme in honor of a foreign head of state, a cultural programme accompanying it only honors that institution. It's an honor for that institution, whatever state institution Mr. President puts in his programs. Of course, the State Theatres, as written in its own law, are, as written in its regulations, an institution that will fulfill these duties, both by the state's authorities and by the President's office, as well as by others. It's very well prepared there. From now on, if such demands are requested, the State Theatres will carry it out. But I'd like to say from here that what the person or people who put that article in that paper are baseless and provocative. Really, if they're behind these sentences, let them come out with their obvious identities. Now, I've been hearing a lot about this, about a number of unsolved tourists, about our ministry, about how I'm doing the ministry. I've never heard any concrete personality say, I'm a tourist here, I've got an evaluation. But it's usually anonymous, or when it's being transferred, the perpetrator is being transferred in some of the corners. Friends, I'll look into this: I'll see if we've reached the goals we need to achieve in the year when I'm running the Ministry. One of the most important issues in the tourism issue is the increasing number of foreign visitors and the increase in Turkish income from here. When I run this process, I always make a political assessment, and I make an assessment of the positive or negative contribution of our political problems or political relations to tourism, about countries that have a potential relationship with us or already have a relationship with us. Two, I'll make an operational assessment. I find out if the measures of our tourism sector are sufficient to reach the goals we need to reach, whether there is a lack of approach or a hitch. My third assessment is that I look at the positions of rival countries almost every day, every month. So any strategy that we've produced is falling behind, isn't it? I'll look at it as a result. And no matter what you say, Turkey's number of foreign visitors increases over the year -- this is also valid for 2014 -- and the rate of revenues increase above the averages of the World Tourism Organization. Despite all the crises around us, our income is increasing and other elements are increasing. Furthermore, the goals set during the 2007-2013 Action Plan were largely achieved. Again, the 2014-2018 Second Action Plan has been implemented in phases. So what we're looking at is, can we achieve the goals we set in time, can we increase the number of visitors as we reach them, can we increase the revenue? We don't have anything to do with any of those unsolved assessments. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0311par0643	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Zeybekci.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0312par0645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. They asked, "What is our export to certain countries where we import oil, where we import energy?" With the Russian Federation, we can only export $6 billion of our foreign trade volume, totaling around $32 billion, importing the remaining 25-26 billion from Russia. Our export to Iraq is $11.1 billion, our export to Iran is $4.1 billion, our export to Saudi Arabia is $3.1 billion, our export to Libya is $2.7 billion, and our export to Azerbaijan is around $3 billion. But here I would also like to thank this question by saying that there is a process that we are currently going through with Russia, so that by the end of 2014 or the first months of 2015 as both technical delegations and ministers of the two countries, we will go towards a 100 billion-dollar goal in two years or three years by eliminating all the quotas, certificates, or quantity constraints in front of our trade with Russia. Here's what I'm saying: I mean, there's a place where our energy imports from Russia can go the most. So we're going to have an increase in exports of goods to Russia, especially in the environment where the price of energy -- oil, and then natural gas will follow -- is going to go down. We signed a preferential trade agreement with Iran. We now have a $35 billion goal of our current $15 billion foreign trade volume in the next two years, in the next 2015 and 2016 -- our goal, of course, is not a commitment that we're going to do this, but a commitment that we're going to do this, that we're going to target, that the two countries are targeting. Of course, on the other hand, there are already problems with Libya and Iraq, but our exports to Iraq are being made up one by one from June 10th of 2014. Hopefully, as of the end of the year, we hope not to experience a total negative in exports with Iraq. And as of 2014 -- so last -- Turkey's external debt is 402 billion dollars. $120 billion is public, $270 billion is private. It also costs $422 billion in public domestic debt. I agree with Mr. Türeli's views on the budget of both the Ministry of Economics and the questions he just asked. Because in many ways the way of reason is one, and the way of mathematics is one. The figures are, of course, very cautiously determined in the Central Future Program. In the coming period, especially about the current account explanation, Turkey is currently improving its current current current current current current account deficit by 37 per cent compared to 2013, and it does not include the cheapness of oil prices. The price of oil is going out in the open next year, so maybe it's in the last few weeks of the range, but starting from January, we're going to start feeling a lot lower down at oil prices -- and then we're going down at natural gas prices. The decline in oil prices in 2015 will increase exports' contribution to growth. So we believe that we're going to see a greater contribution in export-based growth in 2015 growth figures. I guess that's the thing about... But here's the thing: 2015, with the internal market that we're going to see in 2015, which we're going to see in the last quarter, we expect 2015 to start to contribute in a healthy way -- instead of uncontrollable internal consumption, more production, more employment, more investments, more growth -- and more instruments in the market, or more money, and lower costs -- and start to support growth in the domestic market in Turkey by the end of 2015. So in 2015, 2016, 2017, I'll admit that we've been a little conservative in the bids for the Central Future Program. So I believe our expectations will be higher. Is there a stand-by made on 11/5/2005 by Mr. Right?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0313par0652	Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0312par0653	Yes, there are 36 months, and the last loan to the IMF was paid on 14 May 2013, and this stand-by was terminated. And if there are any other questions, I'll answer them in more detail in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0656	Thank you. Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of the budgets in the fifth round, respectively. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary... Mr. Longhorn, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0660	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0661	You asked a question, Mr. Secretary, and he answered.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0662	Wait a minute, but...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0663	But the QA is over, sir. I can't...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0664	Mr. President, can I have your attention for a moment?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0665	No, why should I?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0666	In his speech, Mr. Secretary gave us an answer regarding my question, and he said in the debate: "What would the test take if I poured it out?"
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0667	Mr. Longback, that's not true, please... you asked a question and he answered.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0668	Mr. President, this is teasing. ▪ What would he get if I poured out the water? Who's the derya here, who's the test? I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0314par0669	Mr. Longback, I'll give you two minutes. He's out of patience. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0315par0673	Mr. President, thank you. The questions I'm asking are clear: Does the Council of Ministers know about the Oslo treaty, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? An agreement that the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Council of Ministers don't know about, by some means, is not a secret organisation of the Republic of Turkey. Can such a regime be described as democracy? How many people and what institutions know the contents of the package? And about the parallel structure, what the Minister said... of course, we're the perfect people. We can't expect anything very different from a minister, a man who said that he would not be proud, who said that the Prophet had taken pride in the conquest of Mecca, but I draw attention here to keep one thing in mind: What does he know about his world, In ignorance there's a lot of empty words. He knows himself. Thank you very much. I wish you a good evening.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0316par0680	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0317par0681	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 THE CAMU PROCESS AND SECURITY [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism DELIVER OPERA AND BALL OF GENIARITY [[Continue]] 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 Now, I'm going to have you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the fifth round, respectively.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0318par0722	Mr. President, then I'll say a sentence.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0317par0723	Please, Mr. Secretary, let's finally say, sir, I'll take the vote, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0318par0724	I mean, that's not gonna happen now. He makes conversation with Nadan.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0317par0725	I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 3.214.682,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 606,429000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2.356,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 75,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained General TOPLAM 3.898.467,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior has been adopted into parts of the central management budget of 2015. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of 2013 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Interior Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 4.355.447.199.20 Budget Expenses 4,093,528,977,16 The grant goes to 20,785,13 Cancelled Grant 261,939,007,17 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Management budget of 2015 will be moved to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 342.442.600 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 16,608,268,400 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 5,137,500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 667.870.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 17.623.719000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Security General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 15,377,004.141,19 Budget Expenses 14.998.677.755.55 Cancelled Grant 375.165.276.66 345,784,092,58 Transferred to the Next Year (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Security General Directorate of 2013 has been adopted into parts of its final account of central management. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 be transferred to its sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 160,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 6,486,870.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Housing and Community Welfare Services 2,500,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Gen. TOPLAM 6,489.350,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Command of the Gendarme was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. Gen. General Command, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 5.956.569.973.03 Budget Expenses 5,447,412,479,66 Canceled Fund 508.036.305.02 507,611,960,27 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:84.) KAMU SECURITY AND SAFENESS 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 2015 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 22.183,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 22.183,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security in 2013, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 20,713000,00 Budget Expenses 8.834.107.13 Canceled allowance 11.878.892.87 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of Public Order and Security was adopted as part of the central management account in 2013. Coast Guard Command, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015 be transferred to its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command Central Management Budget 2015 03 Public Order and Security Services 506,226,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 506.226,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Coast Guard Command has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. Coast Guard Command, I'd like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 453,125,748,72 Budget Expenses 353,525,007,96 Canceled Grant 99,417,727,05 66,678,139,88 Transferred to the Next Year (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coast Guard Command was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Management Budget of 2015, the Department of Immigration Administration, those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:85) GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 03 Public Order and Security Services 179,890.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 179.890.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate of 2015 has been adopted into parts of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2013 will be transferred to the chapters of the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Migration Administration General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 47,275,000.00 Budget Expenses 34,658,858,87 Canceled Fund 12.616.141,13 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate was adopted in 2013 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Economics will take part in the central management budget of 2015: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Economy Ministry Central Management Budget 2015 01 General Public Service 47.422,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 252,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 1,433,998,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. GENEL TOPLAM 1,481,672,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics has been adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the Economics Ministry's final account of central management in 2013 will be transferred to its chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Economics Final Account for Central Management 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance is 1,472,808,500,00 Budget Expenses 1,262,227,750,26 Canceled Fund 210,580,749,74 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Economics was adopted as part of its final account of central management in 2013. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2015... Those who don't... Sustained. 21) CULITOR AND TURISM LOOK 1) Ministry of Culture and Tourism 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 517,163,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 773.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 18.889,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 447,461,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 10,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 1,313,240,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. General TOPLAM 2,297.536,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism adopted parts of the central management budget of 2015. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2013, I would like to submit to your votes that the final account of central management should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Ministry of Culture and Tourism (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total grant 2,227,874,522,84 Budget Expenses 1,839,273,080,14 Emancipation Expenses 7,104,37 Cancelled Fund 388.608.547.07 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 341,817,495,01 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, the central management budget of 2015, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.16) THE DEVLET OPERA AND THE BALL OF GOVERNMENT 1) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 20.130,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 2,059,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 306,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 217,860.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 240,355,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 3.628,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 236,311.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 416,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 240.355,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet has been adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. I submit to your votes that the State Opera and Ballet General Directorate of 2013 will take part in the final account of central management: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) State Opera and Ballet General Directorate Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total Payment 211,885,000.00 Budget Expenses 201,584,728,63 Canceled Fund 10,300,271,37 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 211,885,000.00 Collection 205.336.847.17 Ret and Returns 1,094,12 Net Collection 205.335.753.05 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Opera and Ballet was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2013. I submit to your votes that the General Directorate of State Theatres, the central management budget of 2015, those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 40.15) GOVERNMENT PRODUCTION 1) General Directorate of State Theatres 2015 Central Management Budget 01 General Public Service 23.061,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 3.140,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 173,382,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. General TOPLAM 199,583.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 7.894,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 191,379.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 310.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 199,583.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted as part of the central management budget of 2015. The General Directorate of State Theatres in 2013, I would like to submit to your votes to the chapters of the central management account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of State Theatres Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 183,003,228,00 Budget Expenses 178.689.171.63 Canceled Fund 4.314,056,37 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 173,695,000.00 Collection 179,269,997,94 Refuge and Return 9.597.00 Net Collection 179,260,400,94 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of State Theatres was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of Turkey's Writers shall take part in the central management budget of 2015: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.53) THE PRESIDENT OF THE ENGLISH SUMMER 1) Turkey's Writing Arts Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2015 01 General Public Service 7.476,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,651.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 18.109,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. GENEL TOPLAM 27.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 185,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 26.755,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 296,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 27.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of Turkey's Writers was adopted as part of the central management budget for 2015. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Writers' Office of 2013 shall be transferred to the chapters of the central administration's final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Editor-in-Chief, Central Management Final Account for 2013 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: Total allowance 21.565,000.00 Budget Expenses 19,379,350,95 Savings Expenses 71,77 Canceled Fund 2,185,720,82 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget Profits estimated 18,987,000.00 Net Collection 17.977.405.11 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The head of Turkey's Writing Arts was adopted in 2013 as part of the final account of central management. Thus, the budgets and precise accounts of the companies involved in the 5th round were accepted. I wish him well. Mr. Secretary, do you want a word?
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0319par1037	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0317par1038	Here for the bullying, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0319par1042	I'd like to thank all of our deputies, Mr. President, for their talks in the budget and yes acceptance, for the courtesy of our lawmakers. I hope we'll do the same for them. The lawmakers are asking questions, we're trying to answer them in a limited time period. While we're asking questions, we don't say that to the congressman, we don't say this question, we don't do any definitions, it's not necessarily right, but you might not like our answer, you might find our answer less, you might find more, but it's not appropriate to get up in the middle of an answer and cut it off. Secondly, a false statement may be in your mouth, but it may not be possible to come out of my mouth, as far as my education is concerned, and as far as my beliefs are concerned, there will be no such thing as our Holy Prophet.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0320par1045	I didn't know you were denied, but if you were, Mr. Secretary, we agreed.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0319par1046	It's been denied and it's a fabrication, it's a lie, but you came here, you said it here, it's your business.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0320par1047	I didn't know about the lie, we agreed, we admitted you were lying, okay.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0319par1048	There's no arguing about it, not even an example of it, sir. Mr. Congressman, Mr. President, the second, we've made several statements about these talks, and we've shown what we're not saying in our statements. But some opposition parties, of course, may not adopt it. Our target audience isn't the leaders of opposition parties. We offer our policies to the public, and you offer them to the public. We get 50%, you get 14.5%. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, I don't want you to...
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0321par1053	Don't forget where you came from.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0319par1054	I'm not saying anything. I can also criticize the politics of any party, but of course it's valuable, precious. But we both have 77 million targets, our constituents. So they'll decide which policy is right. And the last word, of course, is that conversation with the nadan. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-15sit05spe0322par1058	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Congressmans, the fifth round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 16th 2014) to discuss the budgets and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
