tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 17th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, an Antalya MP who asked for a statement regarding animal rights violations in Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Selfborn Enç.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the animal rights violations in Antalya. I salute you all. Killing an animal without obligation is a crime against life. No animal can be treated cruelly, cruelly. Animal rights violations can also be tried in the European Court of Justice.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0001par0016	Mr. Enç, just a moment. Congressmans, I can't hear the speaker's words. Your friend, he's prepared, please, listen. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0003par0019	Congressmans, I'd like you to listen to this very carefully. Now I'm going to tell you a story: the sea, the sand, the sun, and its historic beauty, in a city of our country, the exact opposite of the things that I said at the beginning of my speech. The city of the period, the city's most trusted, elected by the people's votes, 2009, lives, possessions, everything is in his hands. And with that consciousness, he decided to build the country's first animal morgue. Although, this town had brilliant ideas about people. They also had the idea of a crematorium about people because there was no place for funerals to be buried. Let's get back to the point. This animal spent $52,000 on the morgue -- which was a brother who was a regular debt literature -- and he needed to do it in a 13 cubic metres room because he obviously decided to do the biggest animal slaughter in the history of the Republic. And that wasn't enough, he fought to destroy the evidence by making a special crematorium for slaughtered animals. Dear friends, I give you an exact score: 4,000 cats and dogs were brutally murdered between 2009 and 14 with these special methods. By the way, 46 dogs were placed in a 6-foot cage, which led them to fight each other and destroy themselves. Of course, our city was indifferent to all these events, and he said, "I don't know anything." In 2004-2009, there were 1 cases of rabies in this beautiful city, and between 2009 and 2014, there were unfortunately 19 cases of rabies. I'll leave you to appreciate the fact that there were 19 cases of rabies at the heart of the Metropolis when the Ministry of Agriculture even vaccinated wild animals against rabies. And then what happened? Our distinguished animal rights advocates, the precious representatives of our NGOs, suddenly blind, deaf, heard nothing, knew nothing! In each statement, those who speak of the law, deafened and silent about this atrocities in the city of Eden in Mediterranean, but we do not shut up, and I call on the prosecutors here to speak of this massacre from the legislature of the Assembly, as an Anthalian, an Anthalian living in Antalya. Dear lawmakers, activists who have unfairly turned the country into a war zone because of trees, why are they silent and silent about their political party's local decision maker? As long as this hypocrisy is a double standard, we need to fight harder. This country belongs to all of us, with all of its colors, all of its creatures, our country. It's our duty to protect those colors and creatures, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0004par0026	Thank you, Mr Enç. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mr. Sedef Küçük, the Istanbul MP who asked about World Children's Rights Day. Here you go, Mr. Little.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0005par0031	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to World Children's Rights Day. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, with the help of the law and the necessary institutions, the Universal Declaration of Child Rights begins under healthy, healthy, mental, moral, and social conditions, free and undamaged. Under this declaration is our country's signature. This signature exists, but do we fulfill it? That's what we're going to discuss. Under this contract, you are not a modern country just because you have your signature, but if conditions can be fulfilled, you become a modern country. There are children workers in this country that have reached millions, there are hundreds of thousands of children's brides in this country, there are tens of thousands of children living on the street, and we all owe them to these children. That's right, children are our futures, but we owe them a healthy and viable future. What kind of future we leave to children is the most basic indicator of how we protect child rights. If we're leaving our children a country of green-cut concrete, there's a heavy plague. If we sacrifice our children's fathers to the mines and we do it because we can't take precautions, it's on all of us. If we spend trillions of money on our children's education, on their health, on their future, on illegal palaces, then the future of this country is doomed. What will we teach our children with these palaces? Arrogance and despair? What's to tell these kids? With the money spent on this palace, we could have opened 685 schools for you, but we preferred it. Is that what it's called? For every child living in this country, a plant could be planted, but it was not planted; instead, we chose to tear down thousands of trees. Will it be called? Of course, nothing will be said. It's a 14-year-old country where trees are booed to death on the streets. Deliable lawmakers, Turkey is far ahead of child poverty among OECD countries. One of the three children lives in poverty. One of the four children cannot continue to train. One of the two children is abused by their parents, teachers, relatives. I mean, this country shapes its future with violence, lack of education and poverty. To give an example of education, according to OECD Education Quality Report findings, Turkey is the fourth of 44 secondary education-quality countries. According to the International Student Evaluation Programme, Turkey is ranked 44th in mathematics among 65 countries, 42nd in reading and understanding skills and 43rd in science. This is not because our children have the ability to understand less than the other country's children, but because our quality of education is crawling down the drain. Whatever you say the Ministry is doing against the lack of quality, it boasts that it has reduced the cover to elementary school as many more high schools have become imam-gap schools. Education, on the other hand, is the natural and indispensable right of every child. It is also our children's right to live in a healthy environment. It is the right of our children to have a future that has not been sacrificed to HESECs, whose seas have not been polluted, whose nature has not been slaughtered, and whose olive groves have not been plundered. Dear lawmakers, this country owes its children a country that can be lived and prosperous with its health, its environment, with its education. We all owe our children a future as lawful as mother's milk. If we ignore this debt, if we delay this debt, our future, I'm afraid, will slip out of our hands, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0006par0041	Thank you, Mr. Little. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Ruzzar Demirel, a member of the Eskişehir MP who asked for the same statement. Here you are, Mr. Ironel. It's ladies' day. Come on in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0007par0046	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs in the courtroom. Yes, today is World Children's Rights Day, and so is social gender discrimination, and it's all about women's lawmakers, so it's got to be a mother's instinct to protect our children. I wish, as the poet said, all the children in our country were small. I played ball, I'm hungry." If only they had been able to segregate. However, the children of this country can't play easyball on the streets, because they don't allow TOMA. This country doesn't have to take the effort to get its kids hungry, there are starving babies. Of course, the reasonable thing is, in your opinion, we can't talk about rights and beauty today, but we can't really talk about rights when there are certain injustices. Where he lives in this country, because he can't get health care because there's no access to the road, there's a kid who carries a sack on his father's back when he dies. That's why our children can't read poetry like that. In this country, since there are children who fall on a sink at the kindergarten where he goes to school and die by falling flagpoles over him, we can only now call them children who play in poets. And unfortunately, in this country, there are people who can compare the rape of a seven-month-old child to the adultery of 18-year-olds, who call themselves big, big. And unfortunately, in our country, children are only celebrated on the chosen days of the chosen days, as it is today. However, Turkey has long signed the Universal Declaration of Child Rights, and the 42nd article of this declaration states that it teaches both citizens and their children these rights. We don't inform them of their rights. We don't report it to the kids, do we adults know enough, or do we get to use it? That's another question. Of course, it's not fair to ask children to exercise their rights and demand their rights. It's up to us to give them their rights, to allow them to apply them, but in the last 12 years, unfortunately, we don't have much progress in children's rights. For example, the 7th article of the Declaration of Rights states that every child who is born has an identity, becomes a citizen of a country. In our country, unfortunately -- we know -- there are many children without identity, and most of them are girls. These girls, when they're 12 or 13, become people who are used in homes for work or for different purposes, by the marriage of children's brides to soften things up a little bit. So, are our boys exempt from this? Boys aged 12 to 13 are either being used for labor or leaving schools for other purposes, not attending secondary school, but traveling in our country in the form of child workers. And? As a result, you're looking at newspapers, and besides the exuberant news that we've reduced the consumption of cigarettes, there are children who don't go to these schools, who don't know what they're being used for, and our poorly-trained children who are dying from bonzai in newspapers almost every day, almost every day on TV. We never question why this is happening, and we never give our children their rights. You're the guarantee of our future, and we're putting a huge burden on those children's shoulders. What kind of day do we make when we hand over the future to them so we can give them the future? To make a better country for them, a better world, what do we do besides talk only on the chosen days and glorify ourselves on the chosen days? Nothing. Here it is again in the papers today: 24-year-old adults who raped a 14-year-old girl were released for good behavior, but if you ask the ministries, that judge, he's certainly been trained in social gender equality. We will see each other in better days when we can change education into attitudes, really prepare our children for tomorrows, where both adults and we can be in this responsibility. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0008par0057	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0009par0062	Mr. President, the proposal, which Giresun and the Army have not taken seriously and reacted, proposed the merger of the two provinces, and signed by AKP lawmakers, has been heated and brought back to the agenda. There are debates in their twelve-year administration that the delay of their tender for the Curribel Tunnel, which they use as propaganda material during each election period, is the main reason for their efforts to give jobs to close contractors. What could be behind a city's struggle to make its own district of another province? The government and its members, who have had a runt discussion behind each project in their power, have also had a curious interest in how much they will receive from this merger. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0008par0064	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0010par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you know, Bolu is Turkey's richest province in forest cover. But starting with the AKP's ruling era, the trees became severely slaughtered. Now, the forest peasant's conscience is aching. And now the Bolu forest cover has been severely damaged, thanks to the outside contractors and ally contractors who have been dragged into the woods. Finally, due to irresponsibility in the Bolu Province, Seben district of the Red Zone, there are almost no trees left in that area. There are two ministers representing the government. Please take these words seriously, and take a step towards the end of this tree slaughter in Bolu. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0011par0070	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0012par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. An unemployment problem is coming, a zoning problem is coming, the roads of villages are not being made. There's a parking problem downtown. Since our citizens who are sick in Chile are not doctors in every department, all patients are transferred to Istanbul and the public buses work because the city buses between Chile and Istanbul do not work. These are small and inadequate. Citizens, stacking up, stacking up. Our citizens in Chile are facing these problems, and they are victims. I offer my regards to all of you, that the political power must end this sacrifice at once.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0013par0075	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0014par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. First, on World Day, I wish our children a life with their mother tongue and freedom, a future free from hunger and education. Dear President, the workers continue to die. The boiler explodes, the elevator falls, the pier collapses. Two women worked in Antalya, two workers in Bingol, one workers in Ankara, and one in Ankara have been killed in the usual business killings. Healthy violence occurred today when the health budget was discussed. The attack wasn't near the patient this time. The health workers who made a statement in front of parliament were detained by the government's armband, gas attack and violence, and 10 health workers. The rulers of Turkey today have eliminated the health rights of children, women, workers. And those who will not be wronged - their kingdom will be destroyed. That's for you to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0015par0083	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0016par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today is World Children's Rights Day. On this day, I'd like to bring to your attention the disgrace of the AKP government. According to TÜİK figures, the under 18-year-old marriage rate is 32 per cent; the number of children's brides is 181. In 2012, the number of child workers was 900, according to DİSK figures. Children who work in agriculture and are exploited are off the record, not included. 1,235 workers were killed in 2013, 59 of which were children. Of every 20 workers who die, one is children who have to work because of poverty. The 4+4+4 education system has increased child labor. The AKP government owes the children many apologies. He must apologize immediately and immediately for not being able to live with them today and for stealing their future on December 17th and 25th.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0017par0088	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0018par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Our esteemed MP Gökcen Özdoğan Enç is conducting a perception management, the best defence is the attack. The AKP is cutting down millions of trees, killing thousands of workers, trying to score a point by blaming our former mayor, who is now thinking of animal rights to cover all of this. A municipality that has built dog parks in Antalya for the first time, building cathouses for the first time, and taking care of animals is now on its way to blame. He's got a reservation for the pet cemetery, but unfortunately he's out of time without it. As the Federation of Animal Rights of Turkey has chosen an exemplary municipality in Antalya City -- it has been included in the press -- and the PETA Organization for Animal Protection has written twice, thanking you for taking care of the animals. Mr Enç, I think he's using the last queen's tactic, blame those who were before you. His tactic, but he's got two more letters. Letter two: blame those around you. Third letter: write three letters. Perhaps it is time for them to write three letters.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0019par0093	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0020par0095	Thank you, Mr. President. On October 30, 2014, when he and his wife were shopping on the market in Diyarbakir with his wife, Petty Officer Petty Officer Nejdet Dal, who had been working as a plaster master for twenty-seven years, donated his house to his wife and child. I congratulate my fellowman, Ali Dal, on his sensitive behavior, which should be an example to all. I ask God to increase the number of charitable and sensitive people like Ali Dal. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0021par0099	Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0022par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. We just listened very carefully to the speech of our beloved Antalya MP. He really looks like an opposition. We respect his preparation for his next term in parliament with his party next year, but we also want to express that women's rights, children's rights, human rights, animal rights, in short, no party, no politics. In this regard, I wonder what Manisa Saruhanlı Municipality -- members of the same party -- has done in the past week about images of them locking up dozens of animals and eating each other because of a dispute in the Metropolitan City Law, but we know very well that he and his party have voted "no" for a parliamentary research commission that was asked to investigate such situations last year. Therefore, if good intentions are to be shown in these matters, instead of politics in non-responsive speech, he should support such research commissions and take active office there. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0023par0105	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0024par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. As of November 22, 2014, we will celebrate the 106th year of Turkish dentistry's transition to science. In 106 years, dentistry in Turkey has made a significant distance in scientific sense. We have teachers with knowledge and equipment in the world's standards. We have 40 dental schools, about 22,000 dentists, almost 7,000 in public. However, our citizens have trouble accessing oral and dental care. This is due to the AKP government's insistence on giving oral and dental care to 67,000 dentists across Turkey, in the centre of oral and dental health. The government must immediately ensure that our citizens have access to oral and dental care, which is essential and indispensable. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate all of our dentists on the week of Dentistry.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0025par0110	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0026par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the university tests to be conducted on Saturday and Sunday have been postponed because Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu is going to Tucson. That's a stupid way to behave. Yeah, that's not right! College students are being tested, sir, and because Davutoglu is going there, the chancellor is closing up like this so he can suck up to him. That's not gonna happen. So don't let him go there. Where they're going, they're closing schools, postponing exams. It's inhumane. I mean, that's a huge injustice to young people. If he's going, let Davutoglu do a thing or two. For example, a Pertek Bridge, that bridge hasn't been built here in years. The condition of the roads is a disaster. So let's investigate, one of the most bad road conditions in Turkey is Tunceli. So if anything serious is going to happen, they should go there.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0027par0116	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0028par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, today is World Children's Rights Day. Twenty-five years ago, on November 20, 1989, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on Children's Rights. The Children's Rights Convention, and the rights of children, are presented in a very good way, in a protective way, in a different way than adults. In the 25th year of the Children's Rights Convention, Turkey's 20th year is one of the most important problems in Turkey, one of the most important problems for children is child labor. Clearly, children's work rather than their childhood has been a major problem in the development of their children. Children who are unable to complete their physical and spiritual development are also deprived of their right to education and health by entering working life at an early age. Now, it's up to Parliament to set up a research commission to make necessary improvements in child rights and child labor. Today, we will bring a motion to investigate in this framework to the General Assembly, and we will present it to the General Assembly's discretion. I give all of you my regards to preventing child labor.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0029par0122	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0030par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party, are not only celebrating the day of children's rights, we are on the side of taking real steps about them. We especially think that serious measures should be taken regarding child abuse, rapes. Also, in the meantime, I would like to make a specific note that the Prime Minister made a statement, as was the case with the National Movement Party and the SHP, when he arrived from the Philippines. I assume that he said "MHP" with a slip of the tongue or misdirected, because at the time the MHP was not in power, it was the Right Path Party that was in power with the SHP. So I'm saying that if it's a slip of the tongue, it needs to be corrected. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit01spe0031par0128	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There is no doubt that our country has an important place in the production of tea, and the quality of the tea produced is quite good. Tea, an essential source of joy in our daily life, is a product grown especially in the eastern Black Sea region of our country. As of today, 1,500 types of tea are produced in the region. Tea, the main source of livelihood for the local people, has, unfortunately, recently, not made the manufacturer's face smile. As with many agricultural products, there is also a production-cost imbalance in tea. For political interests of governments, traditional, day-to-day incentives, employment and pricing policies have left tea farming and tea producers stuck in big problems. The government's share in the tea industry has been deliberately reduced through policies that have been implemented, while the private sector has continued to increase. The private sector, which had a 25 per cent share in the industry in the 1990s, raised it to 50 per cent in the 2000s. The problems experienced by the manufacturers are the quota and quota practices of CHAYKUR. Because the private sector describes the bottom price of tea as $1.22, while the private sector describes it as 60 cents. Although 1,200,000 tonnes of tea were produced this year, CHAYKUR received 645,000 tonnes of tea from the manufacturer last year and 600,000 tonnes of tea this year. The 2012 annual tea campaign was launched with 10 kg per day. Last year, because of ChaYKUR's quota and quota practice, the private sector bought tea from the manufacturer at a very low price given by the state, and the tea makers suffered a loss. The start of this year's age tea campaign with a quota application, which shows that tens of thousands of producers will continue to be victimised by the fact that the producers did not buy their tea on time and that they did not announce the prices on time. The other important thing is that tea exports get a little more tense every year. In 2001 4,771 tonnes of dry tea were exported, while the number was gradually reduced as of the years, with 2.629 tonnes of dry tea exported by 2007. The problem of smuggled tea in the country is another matter to consider. Because despite the decline of exports, about 50,000 tons of cheap and inferior tea is still imported. These unskilled teas, imported, are printed with a label. This causes both the tea industry and the region's economy to suffer. All this negativity enrages the tea makers and leaves the manufacturer helpless, whose only source of livelihood is tea. The fact that tea, which is a food substance, is subject to the VAT rate applied to food materials, the cost of natural gas given to the tea industry, is brought down at the cost of the OTV, the way the state supports the manufacturer and prevents them from being victimised, and the use of tea measures, such as providing them with quality age tea, which are unhygienic methods, would be a reason to take a breath of tea -- such as the production permit document -- in order to prevent the producer from producing tea. Therefore, with respect to the opening of Parliamental research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, in order to determine in detail the problems that tea producers face in the process of marketing their products and to remove the problems that have been detected by NGOs, as well as with the opinion of NGOs, as soon as possible. [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 14) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 15) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that a parliamentary research commission be established under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Court of Humanity, 98, and 105, be prepared to ensure that the geothermal power plant in Alaşehir, Manisa, can be investigated for possible damage to the environment and, in particular, the bonds raised by the world-renowned sultanial grape. [[Manisa]] [[Let's go.]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Amasya]] [[Sinop]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 11) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 12) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Tekirdağ]] 14) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] 16) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 17) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Malatya]] [[Balıkesir]] 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 24) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 28) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] 30) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] 33) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 35) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] 39) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] Geothermal energy is one of the world's most important sources of wealth. Turkey, a lucky country, ranks sixth in the list of countries with the richest resources in geothermal. Compared to other fossil energy sources, the practice of geothermal energy known as clean, environmentally friendly, and renewable can have many negative effects on the environment if it is not sensitive. Citizens of Manisa's Alaşehir district are concerned about the geothermal power plant, especially our farmers in the region. With the thin crust of this region and its different flavor, it is the center of the world-famous production of sultanial grapes, raising concerns about the construction of plants. The world's examples show that geothermal plants can damage the environment. From these plants, hydrogen sulfide, ammonium and mercury are a threat to the environment in special cases. It is also known that in geothermal waters there are boron elements that cause high damage to plants. In particular, a pipe in the irrigation waters causes damage to agricultural land. The geothermal fluid that flows out of the geothermal power plants at 35-400 degrees Celsius can be mixed into rivers, lakes, and underground waters. Most organisms are known to be sensitive to even ten degrees of continuous change. There is no doubt that this could lead to significant changes in the existing ecosystem. There is also the need to eliminate concerns that geothermal energy products can be damaged during the evacuation of pools by regeneration. In addition, the "retributed earthquakeism" created by intense steam flow in geothermal electricity production and backing off the water used has become an important topic in the world. Hence, some activity may have triggered the earthquake in places where geothermal power plants are located. It remains unclear whether any measures related to the risks listed above are taken regarding the plant in Alaşehir district of Manisa. These risks concern not only the manufacturers, but many citizens living in the region. Given the growth of sultania's grapes in climate conditions in a perfect balance, it is important to take seriously the concern that the development of the plant could cause damage to this rare product. Besides, the explosions at the private company's Alaşehir Alkan village site, which worked to build the plant in the region, proved the producers' concerns were justified. Because of the explosions that began in May 2012, which lasted more than a month and a half, the vineyard was damaged by close to 200 dedars, and agriculture was no longer possible in these vineyards. When the damage caused by the explosions and the concerns listed above are combined, the sultanial grapes appear to be under potential threat. Turkey is leading the world's export of raisins. The most important product in our country's exports of raisins is the sultania, and 90% of this product is grown in Manisa. Manisa's export of raisins is at $500 million a year. Therefore, it is imperative that the plant's immediate and long-term threat to vineyards be eliminated and every precaution taken. "Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the government and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution." It's called. In accordance with this clear resolution of the Constitution, it is also up to the political institution to investigate and ensure that various measures are taken in order to prevent environmental harm. For reasons listed above, we request and demand the establishment of a parliamentary research commission of the TBMR Council to determine the possible damage of the geothermal power plant, which is planned to be established in Manisa Alaşehir, to the environment and the bonds raised by sultanial grapes, to determine the risks of accidents, to determine the measures to be taken, to determine whether the existing measures are sufficient. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Turkey, we demand that parliamentary research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate the impacts of immigration on social and political life, the evacuation of villages, the impact of village production on agriculture and the economy, the measures to reduce the negative effects of migration. [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Manisa]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] 10) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Hatay]] 15) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] 19) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] 25) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] 29) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 32) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Niğde]] 36) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Mughle]] In Turkey, the fundamental movement of social life has been migratory. There has been a great wave of migration from villages to counties to cities, cities to major cities, and major cities to the world for 40 years. It's the immigration that brands social and political life without feeling it. Migration has especially affected village life in Turkey. As a result of the migration, the village production was reduced, the villages were empty, and the villages became the centers for old people and children. The decline of production activities in villages has had a negative effect on agricultural production and the economy. On the one hand, arable areas have gone out of economics and production, while agricultural products have increased prices. A study should determine the extent of ejaculation in villages to the economy and agricultural production. Another result of migration from villages to cities is that the peasant population turns into workers in cities. In this sense, it is also necessary to assess how well those who migrated from villages can adapt to urban life, how much problems they have, the effects of their problems on social life. For these reasons, a parliamentary study of the reasons for immigration, the effects of migration on social, political, and economic life, is necessary to determine measures to eliminate the negative consequences of migration. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0031par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 17th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The European Union is the VII of the United Nations Security Council. On the basis of its decision 2134 (2014) on 28/1/2014 as part of its division, it has decided to perform military operations under the name "EUFOR RCA" to contribute to the restoration of stability and support of the political transition process in the Central African Republic. As for this invitation, it is envisioned that our country will provide strategic air travel support with a staff contribution to the Armed Forces Headquarters in Bangui. On the other hand, the European Union established a military mission called "EUTM Mali" under the UN Security Council's Resolution 20/12/2012 (2012) and began its deployment on 18/2/2013. The European Union also established a civil mission called "EUCAP Sahel Mali" on 15/4/2014. The main goal of these missions is to provide strategic advice and training support for financial armed forces and security forces (police, gendarmes and national guards). The European Union also invited our country to participate in the missions involved. The trends of our contributions to operations and missions in the Central African Republic and Mali are under the framework between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey to join the European Union's Crisis Management Operations, signed on 29/6/2006. Our country is following a united policy that involves the security of Europe by acting on the principle of Euro-Atlantic security, covering both NATO and the European Union, and contributing to the Joint Security and Defence Policy of the European Union, foreign policy priorities and national interests. Such contributions, which coincide with our country's approach to peace-supporting operations and are a sign of the common understanding of Turkey and the European Union's international and regional problems, also make our accession process visible. Meanwhile, it is estimated that the military contribution to the solution of such humanitarian and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa would be a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general on the African continent. I move from this approach to allow Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the European Union in the Central African Republic and Mali and to be used by the government under Article 92 of the Constitution for the use of these forces under the government's mandate and on the basis to be determined. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Twenty minutes for speech time, groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of parliament who have taken over Tezkere: İstanbul MP Osman Faruk Logoglu on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group; Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group; Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; İstanbul MP Şurmur Ünal on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group; Deputy Prime Minister Bült Arinc on behalf of the government. On behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kuruturk, Antalya MP Sadık Badak. The first statement, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, belongs to İstanbul MP Osman Faruk Logogoğlu. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0032par0021	Mr. President, thank you. In terms of the statements, I may need to correct it; you have qualified the Istanbul legislature, the Adana MP. You can't just...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0031par0023	Mr. Logoglu, I'm sorry, that's what they wrote. I read the script. I'm sorry. Adana MP Osman Faruk Logoglu. I'm rebooting your time now. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0033par0027	Perhaps you've read my future, Mr. President. Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the government's decision to send the Turkish Armed Forces abroad as part of the operations and duties carried out by the European Union in the Central African Republic and Mali. I salute you all. The Central African Republic, as its name suggests, is a population of about 5 million people in the middle of Africa. I'm going to go into detail because I think maybe we should know what we're voting for a little bit. According to UN data, it is one of the poorest countries in the world. In the Central African Republic, the balance sheet of problems caused by the painful heritage of colonialism and the misuse of state power is becoming increasingly heavy. Since its independence in 1960, the problems of sharing and governance in this country, where coups have become almost regular, have become a war between Muslim and Christian groups in recent years. The war rose to the extent of ethnic cleansing and genocide in the country, when a group of Muslims, with about 15 per cent of the country's population, hit the government in March 2013 -- which makes up 50 per cent of the population. The international community has had to seize the situation in the face of the intensity of global violence, which has been carried out by organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International. Congressmans, it's good to open a parentheses here. The interest of Western states and the outside world, especially in the Central African Republic, also attracts rich underground resources, especially in the diamond, but the reasons that make it possible and necessary for the international community to move together have been that the war in the country has the potential to drive all of Africa to the fire, the threat of millions of innocent civilians to their lives, and the possibility of creating a tension in the global plan among religions. After the rise of the civil war in the Central African Republic, several initiatives were made on a regional and international scale to ensure peace in the country. The United Nations Security Council has made many decisions regarding the situation in the country over the past two years. France, the African Union, the United Nations, and finally the European Union have sent troops into the country to stop the war and to keep the peace. In contrast to the Justice and Development Party government's approach to regional and international problems, all military operations carried out in the Central African Republic have been decided by the United Nations in harmony with the approach of the modern world. Today, about 16,000 personnel, including 10,000 soldiers in the United Nations, are in the Central African Republic, under the Security Council's decision dated April 10, 2014. All foreign forces in the country carry out their duties under the control of the United Nations and within the framework of Security Council decisions. Dear friends, in what way has the European Union's invitation to Turkey as part of its mission in the Central African Republic come into play, and what is this invitation? First, on January 20, 2014, the European Union decided to contribute under the protection of the United Nations to the international community's initiatives in the Central African Republic, and in that direction it notified the Security Council. The provisional authorities in the Central African Republic also gave a green light to the European Union's contribution. After all, the Security Council issued decision 2134 on 28 January 2014, authorising the European Union's force, the Central African Republic of the European Union, to support the United Nations force in the country. In other words, the European Union has taken action after it has fully secured the necessary international legitimacy. This should be a lesson to the Justice and Development Party's government, which is trying to disable international legitimacy mechanisms in Syria and go behind their backs. Dear friends, we will vote positively as Republican People's Party, which has approved Turkey's contribution to end violence in the Central African Republic. Because Turkey has long favoured peace, peace, and has always supported peace efforts on the basis of binding decisions by the Security Council. However, in the context of the Central African Republic, I would also like to point out that the international community's military steps are aimed at stopping violence, and it is necessary for the Central African Republic to have a structure of service and justice based on the rights of rights and to have a joint political value. For this, there is a need for a solution on the regional scale, including the country's neighbours, and a social compromise on the scale of the Central African Republic. In giving this authority, I would also like to give a warning to the government: Let go of your custom of drawing close to events in the world from the standpoint of religion and sects. These approaches divide societies, increase tensions between religions and sects, fuel conflict. Treat people as equals. Be the patron of all men, not just Muslims. Remember, you are not only authorized for one part of Central African Republic society, but for the peace of all. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share our views on Mali, which is part two of the thesis. Mali, a French colony, like the Central African Republic, was liberated in 1960, and is now in danger of being torn apart by ethnic and religious conflicts. In general, the country has been divided geographically due to civil war and terrorism. Today there is a human disaster in the financial community. Hundreds of thousands of financial citizens have been displaced and hundreds of thousands are starving. Also, the Timbuktu manuscripts, which are in the financial area and the common historical heritage of mankind, are in danger of extinction due to conflicts in the country. In 2012, the Tuareg National Azavad Liberation Movement, which declared independence in the north of the country, was not recognised by African countries, but by the landing of the Al Qaeda-related Ensar Din terrorist organization. The terrorist group has declared a Shariat administration in the north of Mali (Mali) and excluded the Tuaregs from the administration. Later, he stated that his main goal was to transform the entire country into the Islamic state, and he began to move south with other Al Qaeda-extreme organisations that he was connected with. In response, Mali executives called for help to the international community. The first responder, France, launched air strikes against the Ensar Religion organization in January 2013. To control the situation in the country, the African Union, the United Nations and the European Union have also started to support operations in various ways in the country. First, the Security Council authorized the deployment of the International Support Force, led by the African countries, to Mali. The Security Council's decision also approves the restructuring of the European Union's defences and security forces in the financial community. Therefore, the European Union is acting on the basis of the UN's decisions. By acting on this grounds of legitimacy, the European Union has formed a multinational military training mission in the central city of Bamako, in order to train security forces in Mali. In addition, another mission has been carried out in order to educate the financial police, the gendarmes and their national guard. This is the background of the European Union's invitation to Turkey in the context of operations in the financial community. Dear friends, as the Republican People's Party, I would like to point out that we also welcome the contribution of the European Union's missions, which operate under the authority vested in the United Nations in the financial community. On the other hand, developments in the Central African Republic and Mali (Fali) and the international community's approach to these two countries also demonstrate the differences in the foreign policy followed by the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party. I'd like to draw your attention to these differences. First of all: the international community's intervention in the two countries is legitimate, internationally legal, because it has both the relevant decisions of the Security Council and the demands and consent of the Central African Republic and the financial administrations. At the same time, it will contribute to the growing fight against international terrorism. That's why we support the thesis. Because, in the background of this thesis, there are UN decisions, the search for legitimacy of the European Union. In contrast, the governments of Erdogan-Davutoglu continue to insist and stubbornly follow policies that oppose international norms, which intervene unilaterally in the domestic affairs of neighbouring countries, which try to destroy the regimes of those countries by co-operating with terrorist organisations. Second: The Western world, which wants to intervene in developments in the Central African Republic and in Mali, fears rising global terrorism and this terrorism will expand its field of activity. It is easily understandable from the present of the Mali and Central African Republic, where Al Qaeda-related organisations will become stronger and more likely to make the world what it is. In this context, it is clear that the governments of Erdogan-Davutoglu, who have made our southern borders, and even the region and neighbouring countries the global center of jihadist terrorist organizations, did not absorb, or embrace, the philosophy, the spirit of the decisions made by the United Nations towards Mali and the Central African Republic. Third: The Security Council sets a time limit on the military operations it authorises under the 7th part of the United Nations Law, and limits it in terms of the mission, which is not enough, but is strictly overseeing the activities of the missions established, which also applies to the European Union. There's a beginning and a end to what's ahead of us. Compared to other documents that have come before, this paper is well-written, I deliver this. However, we have not seen these elements, which are the main skeleton of this thesis in terms of procedure and form, so far, in general, the government has brought them to Parliament and spent its majority understanding. We have not forgotten that last month's Syrian-Iraq treatise is without legitimacy and gives the government unlimited authority, and that our country is nothing more than a pirate state of the region. Fourth: The Republican People's Party adopts the international community's inclusive view of conflicts in Africa. The Republican People's Party advocates helping people because they are people and not because they are Muslims or Christians. Because according to U.N. records, half the country needs humanitarian help, not just Muslims. In this regard, I would like to point out the situation Mr. Davutoglu is in. For those of you who don't know, let's sing. In February, Mr. Davutoglu called on the Islamic Conference Organization to act immediately, while massacres were taking place in the Central African Republic -- which we also condemned. However, we don't hear Erdogan's high-pitched voice and the voices of Prime Minister Davutoglu and President Erdogan. They're screaming about the Central African Republic, but they're in a weird silence about Mali. This two-standard stance of the AKP government is noted in international opinion. Dear friends, no one should view developments in Central Africa and Mali as an opportunity to attempt to become a member of the community. The rising global terrorism, humanitarian disaster, and the protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty of states in the region are the main priorities of the international community. These are also the priorities of the Republican People's Party. Fifth: Our contribution will be on the basis of an invitation between Turkey and the European Union under the agreement on the issue signed in 2006. This contribution is as important to our international reputation as it is to Europe, it is positive, but there is also the other side of the medallion; the painful and incomprehensible truth is that the European Union continues to exclude Turkey from the common security and defence policy of the European Union and from the institutional mechanisms that constitute this policy. Turkey supports the European Union whenever it asks for its help. Is the government aware of this unstable, inequal relationship? Is he uncomfortable with this one-sided relationship? You will leave Turkey out of the mechanisms of self-defense and security, and when you knock on every door, you will expect to be ordered! By acting on the principle of the inseparability of security, the government must make an attempt and conclude this inequality. Finally, I would like to give a concrete example of the government's attitude towards Africa. I've said this many times before from this stand. In 2012, Chad- a person from his Twitter account is not the same thing as a terrorist. He shared the message, from his official Twitter account. After this message, despite all our warnings and insistence, the foreign minister of the time has continued to keep the ambassador in office, and as far as we know, he remains in office. It is a scandal to send a person who does not consider al-Qaeda a terrorist organization into a region where the international community is fighting global terrorism as ambassador. We don't accept that. A government who wants to contribute to the stability of Africa cannot make an ambassador in Africa to a person who cannot call al-Qaeda (a terrorist organization) a person who cannot call al-Qaeda (Afrika) a terrorist group (Afrika) a person who wants to contribute to the stability of Africa (Afrika) if he is doing it, his side is clear. Dear lawmakers, we hope that our positive vote on the thesis will contribute to the peace of these two African countries, the stability of the African continent, and the context of the fight against global peace and terrorism. We expect the government to use the powers vested in it. We'll be on their backs, we won't let them act any other way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0034par0053	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Mustafa Erdem. Here you go, Hajji.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0035par0057	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the appeal of the Turkish nation's saintly MPs, Central Africa and Mali. I salute you all with love and respect. Anyone can say anything about Turkey's foreign policy, but one thing must not be forgotten is that the state of the Republic of Turkey is a state in which the government of the Republic of Turkey has established a jihana such as the Ottoman Empire, has served civilization, has taught humanity what it is, has the same spirit, has the same values, has the same values, has the same mission. If you look at this frame, what we say in Europe, what we say in Africa, what we say in the Middle East, what we say in the Caucasus, what we say in the Balkans and all over the world, because this is our primary field of duty and responsibility. However, those who govern the state of the Republic of Turkey must feel that they have this consciousness, that they are in some way committed to implementing this mission. If those who mortgage their wills to a so-called joint will take on a duty and responsibility to perform the duties of others, not their own name, or their own soul, or their own nation, but other people's people's, they will disturb this nation, whose mercy has reached Rahman, and his covenant. Dear MPs, Africa is the drama of mankind. Africa is a disgrace to mankind. Africa is a field of attraction, Africa is a field of struggle, Africa is a space of sharing. African weird, African oppressed, African victim. When we think of decades of missionary activity on Africa as the outposts of global forces and imperialists, look at what Westerners have taken to Africa in the name of humanity, in the name of civilization, in the name of technology. If there is a human drama going on in Africa right now, if there are massacres in Africa, if Africa is being reduced to guinea pigs just because its colors are black, then today I would like to point out how conflicted and how opposed are those who ask us to bring justice to Africa, to bring civilization to Africa, to us, and to us, to deal with bilateral agreements. See, in 1963, when Kenyan President Jomo Kenyatta arrived, he had our land and they had their Bibles. They taught us to close our eyes and pray. When we opened our eyes, we had the Bible and the land in their hands. I want you to think in some way how missionary activities, even though the global forces that we're allied with today have been working on dialogue, still have been outposts, and how they might be behind the trial in Africa. Yes, today in Africa civilization, today in Africa mankind, today in Africa, values have fallen to the ground. In the name of civilization, the only thing used in the name of advanced technology is the weapons that the brother murdered his brother with. Then I'd like to point out what the people who put these weapons there, the people who sent these weapons, the African accounts for them. Today, as long as Africa falls into a position that China, the EU, and the United States share at the lion's table, I'd like to offer your appreciation for whether or not our patriotic soldiers are serving global interests, or whether they may experience a national happiness conscious of the trust of the profession. Dear MPs, I'd like to point out the practices we've been implementing today regarding the military union that will be sent to Africa. I'd especially like to invite you, members of parliament, to rethink the hearts of this nation's soldiers in order to make decisions that will somehow come out of the National Assembly. The glory of our ecdat is the marufi jihan. Those who say that when they see our soldiers being saddled in some way abroad today, at least if they see that this state has become incapable of even protecting them, then at least if they have a guilty conscience, they must rub their heads on the ground because they can't take care of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we'll take care of the soldiers who are the sons of this nation. Those who send their children abroad as mortgages of our own... must also ensure that this House defends their rights, their honor is not compromised, their honor is not undermined. That's the state, that's the government. But, come to think of it, there's an international agreement that doesn't know who we're going after, what human values we're trying to save, what civilized interests we're able to build. We sent him to Afghanistan, we sent him to the Middle East, we sent him to Africa, we healed him, we solved what problem, what human values did we give him the opportunity to live? Isn't Afghanistan, where we go after people, where Muslim people live, where they put bullets in each other, bury each other in the ground, but they all become the common tool of global forces? So, we have to know and evaluate who we're going after and who we're sending troops for global powers and who the soldiers we're sending to serve. We recently introduced Syria from here and decided to protect our civilized values there, Islamic architecture and Muslims, and we made a promise on behalf of the nation. But come to see that the faith of the nation, the spirit of the nation, the will of the nation, has been made a chase after 3.5 of the people, and has the PKK somehow reversed its clothes in a heparmer suit and not been a member of the United Nations, not yet a member of the United Nations, and not yet a member of Turkey -- I promise -- sent its troops to Ayn El Araba, who, by the will of this Assembly, has been taken, by the order of this Assembly? So I want to tell you that if this nation's will is our honor and honor, if our soldiers, the sons of this nation's children, are our honor and honor, then everyone must weigh his decisions on this scale of honor, and then when he comes to the face of the nation, he must be able to make the same statement there tomorrow when he comes to the face of the Lord. Dear MPs, I ask you now: Who did the soldiers who went to Ayn Al-Arab (Arab) go to, where did they go, and what did they do? Now I ask you again, is there a civilian population in Ayn Al-Arab? What purpose does Ayn Al-Arab serve today as a result? In terms of the country's strategic interests, Ayn Al is the west of Arab Iraq, east of Syria, is it a threat to the Republic of Turkey or not? Sir, the European Union has been established by bilateral agreements, and Turkey has promised these agreements. The Turkish nation never broke its promise, even at the cost of its death, obeyed international agreements, and went to Korea and martyred thousands of sons. But how can we establish such an alliance with them, such a defence union, when the European Union, which we have united today, has not yet accepted us into the European Union? Dear lawmakers, remember: if international relations become pragmatists, if international relations are important, then I want to remind you that we all need to think and somehow protect our own honor and honor. But we went to Africa, we did some work in Africa, we thought we'd get into the United Nations Security Council by getting their votes. Even so happened in the past. But I'm asking you, on behalf of the state, if you'd like to say it in a sincere way, do you want to take a closed session here, tell me, is it to protect the Ottomans' honour in Africa, to represent the state of the Republic of Turkey there, or is it to confirm that some of the global projects have applied to Africans, to divide the Sudan, to dagger Somalia, to stab the heart of Africa? While in the middle of relations between China and America, please look at the state in which we represent and operate in the name of the government where we directly or indirectly contribute to European missionary activities over the centuries. Dear lawmakers, on our way to Africa, when TİKA was Turkish Co-operation and Development Administration, we changed its mission; we went to Africa as opposition to its name, and did you or did you not bring another parallelism with you today in Africa by cooperating with what you call parallel? Then I want to make it very clear to you from here that when the state is being ruled, the quality of statehood is not just about saving the day, but about having the philosophy of the state over the centuries. If we're going to save the day, forget today's reasons tomorrow, then this state is a weakness for us, the fate of this nation will be dark for us. Dear lawmakers, it's a small country as a financial population, but it's important to us what it means. The population is 12 million, what's 15 million? I'm not getting technical information, the speaker before me gave it to you. But the thing to know is that Africa is as important to us as the West, but the poet says: "I have concerns about our faith in the unbelief of the unbelief, our unbelief webs of our unbelief, and the government that serves Turkey and the honorable soldiers of this state, that their fate can't be protected, that their rights can't be defended, that their rights can't be served by global forces." But Turkey should be not only in Africa, it should be in Europe, it should be in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it should be in West Thrace, but it should be more now in the Middle East. But come on, we've come out of here, and I'm asking you, do you put your hand on your temple or on your conscience; Palestine, Palestine, Palestine, Palestine, we said, we slept and got up, and what did we contribute to Palestine, after all, to God? Has the Palestinian stopped crying? Did Israel put a stop to Palestine? Has Israel's construction decisions been abandoned for Palestine? No. We have brought Syria up, we have divided it, we have broken it, but has Bezar Assad gone? Where are the people we're cooperating with? I'd like to get your attention here. The people we're cooperating with have nothing in common with us. Remember, in their own world, they've made their decision about the Turkish nation whether you feel belonging to them or not. This promised holy land will one day be restored with unarmed Crusades. Do you think this 200-year decision has been waived? Do you think... In 1915 -- and the information given by former Prime Minister Shemsettin Günaltay, you will see that if you read the book of Nura from Zulmet -- a confederate said, "There is no peace and quiet in this world unless you go to Central Asia, where I come from, where I am not ashamed; and there is no peace and quietness in this world unless you crawl under the crescent, or under the Islamic cross. Dear MPs, the Republic of Turkey should cease to be a toy of global power, but with the will and dignity of living in a global world, it must, in its wisdom, take its honor, its word. I believe that the decision of this great Assembly will be enough to destroy not only the oppressed Central African Republic of Central Africa, but all the scoundrels in the international subcontracted situation, for the sake of the Turkish nation's honor and reputation alone and not only the innocent Mali. I offer you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0036par0076	Thank you, Your Grace. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0037par0080	Mr. President, thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, I salute you. I'm going to say the last thing I'm going to say in the first place. I understand that all three parties here will say yes to this thesis. Am I wrong? It's the three of you. Then I suggest that if the Turkish Armed Forces go there, send your children first, and no one pursues you with a price. Be careful, the king of Holland, king of England, chief of staff, who was sending his son to Afghanistan, Pakistan, wherever he was. Here, the generals' children, the children of politicians, the children of the rich, come from the ATM and preach in this Parliament. Too bad, too bad, too bad! Find out the truth for once, so find out what's here. Since the Turkish Armed Forces will go to Mali, Africa, come write down what's in your heart, what's in your mouth. Yeah, well, NATO wanted it, but the European Union wanted it, and our membership in the European Union is gonna get stronger, and if we send some soldiers there, it's gonna be great. That happened in Libya. Remember when you said that no one would interfere with Libya? When President Sarkozy of France at the time left, he said, "Our government is coming right away." He said, "Our ships are coming too." What kind of foreign policy is that, guys? If the Turkish Armed Forces of this country, the tax of this country, the budget of this country is going to go somewhere, then the people of this country have to think: am I going because someone wants me to, or because I believe I'm going because I'm going because I'm going to, what's my foreign policy, am I going according to it? Guys, I'm gonna be very clear. Look, here's the European Union. Where are you in the European Union, where are you in the European Union? You've been in negotiations since the coalition governments. We signed the Customs Union in 1995. You've been paying taxes since 1995, customs tax, one. Two: they ask for soldiers, and send them, and send them to Sudan, and to Somalia, and to Afghanistan, and to Lebanon. We've just come up here and built 20 states from this bench. We're a state of jihad. We shake the world. When we are gone, the deserts of Africa rise up, and no one shall speak of the Middle East or any other thing. Let me be very clear: the third world crisis, the final pains of the global financial crisis. Mali is 90% Muslim. Whose colony is Mali? France. Who intervened here in 2012? France did. Was there a coup? Okay. Is it clashing with forces in the north? It's fighting. Watch out for what forces he's fighting, look around. There's Moritania, Nigeria, Guinea, Libya a little further, Algeria to the north. Many groups of jihadists, who had been in Afghanistan for a long time, came to Nigeria, came to Mali, came to Somalia, came to Sudan. Now these forces are in the Middle East, Syria, and Iraq. Now, Al Qaeda and Al-Qaeda and ISIS, who come from the outside as jihadist groups, are now in Africa. Who are they fighting in Africa? There are factions who have taken over the coup d'état by military coup. Whose interests are hanging here? France, especially... why? Because Mali, who was independent in 1960, is all of Africa, all of Africa, all of France's backyards are friends. Don't look, in Ottoman times, all the way to Tripoli, from Algeria, Morocco... they became the Ottoman domains, but they were the first places we lost from Andulus. We came to retreat from the gates of Vienna, from the west, from the north of Africa, and from the horn, and from this side; and beyond the Ottoman Empire, in Anatolia, Churchill sat down, and put the ruler on the table, and he cast down the Misakimilli, and drew the boundaries of the present. Now, you think you're going to come out of these borders and form a Neosman spreading policy and become a global force. With what? With people's money, with their children, with their soldiers, with their blood. Okay, we're doing budget talks. Do you know that 30 million people are below the age of starvation? 891 lira minimum wage, net. Is there anything beyond that? And 20 million below the poverty line, 50 million. What's our population? 77 million. How many people are rich here? One percent of Turkey. Did one percent go to Somalia, Sudan, Afghanistan, Beirut, and Mali as soldiers? He didn't go. Imagine the father who buried his child in the mine yesterday in Ermenek. Bring your broken father's standing at the funeral with his flowered rubber shoes. Here, you want to send those boys away. That's your global spreader, your Neosman spread. The People's Democratic Party will strongly oppose it and stand by its children. The Turkish Armed Forces are like all the governments of the last period, during all the right-wing, nationalist, conservative parties... when there was a tradition here in Turkey... that there was a Kurdish Mehmet watch. Doesn't that hurt your pride? NATO wanted to protect Atlantic. It was Turkey's greatest goal. Oh, shit! Protecting the North Atlantic was Turkey's goal! You'll protect yourself first. Friends, do you think that with two buses and two trucks of help there, having relations with three jihadist groups, being treated as a charitable, philanthropist society, having a relationship with three or five radical religious groups from there, you're going to catch opportunities in this global crisis? Is that an opportunity? They don't feed you. There is a colonial crisis, but neither Belgium nor England nor France nor America nor any country, West, this will send you a soldier. The European Union and NATO will not give it to you. Put this on your head. You're going to train soldiers, you're going to go there, you're going to train the gendarme, you're going to train the police, you're going to build a law and democracy there. You'll also write: "Our country will contribute to its desire to join the European Union. " Can you enter the European Union with a bayonet? Can you join the European Union with the military, friends? If that were so, Mr. Minister of Justice, why can't we open chapters 23, 24? You can't open it, brother. Because you have no independent judgment, no impartial judgment, no justice. Your justice... your 463 officers, the general's been in prison for five years, why he's been in bed, who's been out, who's been in and who's out, but one thing is known, against the government. Then you took thousands of people from our party in the TK investigations. Then you took other political opponents. Sir, it's parallel. What a parallel! This parallel goes all the way to God knows the comet! Now, tell me, do you believe that by sending troops to the European Union, you will be a global force as a tong of these colonial, neochondriac states? In the global crisis, we must support Turkey's search, new market search, new relations, new relations with new peoples as HDP. But do we have any research? Which of our academics, which of our foreign policy experts, which of our politicians have gone and brought a report on the finances, and they told us and convinced us that our people would help us to send our children there, so that we wouldn't object? Mr. Kuruturk, you were the last ambassador in Paris, you came as an MP, you know best that France should send troops there, its rights to Mali. Did he send soldiers last year because they were 90% Muslims? Friends, there, it's a pity it's a sin... that the Turkish Armed Forces already have 600 grand left. There are 600,000 private security guards in Turkey, 270,000 police, 215,000 gendarmes, that's all. Now, I don't understand anything here, and if I don't, maybe I'm not capable, Mr. Arinc can explain. It is envisioned to provide strategic air travel support to the headquarters with the contribution of one staff.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0038par0093	One is enough!
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0037par0094	Mashallah, we're good on the airway, one staff and airway support! Now, I want to know this, and I'm asking on behalf of the people as HDP: on the one hand you say I'm going to train soldiers in Mali, I'm going to train the gendarmes, I'm going to train the police, I'm going to establish a law order, I'm going to bring democracy. Can you explain to me what you can bring there to be a strategic global power? You bring human aid, you bring food, you bring medicine, you give other kind of help, you give humanitarian aid, you do it as a government. We are not in the face of any humanitarian aid, my friends. Humanitarian aid, whichever people this Parliament brings to the oppressed people, we will always be there for you as a party defending the rights of the oppressed people. But that's enough! We called him the Carabinieri of the Middle East, and now he's trying to pin Africa's gendarmeship on us. NATO, America, the European Union. If the European Union is so good, if it's so precious, if it's going to give you so much access to your government, if it's going to give you a green light, for God's sake... they don't even turn on the 13th part of the fish. Do you know that the European Union didn't even open fish? Do you know what the government says? As a country that produces and sells most farm fish, it says that for political reasons they are preventing the opening of our 13th fish chapter. For what political reasons? So, when you send troops to Mali, they'll open the fish section? There's a chapter about consumer rights, and you're going to open that chapter? Tell me. Guys, there's a story about the environment, is that what you're gonna do by sending in soldiers? These are the duties of this Parliament. Don't sell the children of this country so cheap, don't market your soldier, don't sell their poor children, don't take orders from other people's countries, we'll keep saying that, we'll keep saying that. We'll come here as if we're preaching, and we'll conquer the world as the sons of Neosman. No, sir. We've become a global force, we'll play horses in the world. ISIS came to Kobani. Both ISIS and such organisations roam around Africa. In a sense, the derivatives of the Middle East are in Africa, in Mali, in the middle of Africa. Look, I'm telling you, Mali is in the middle of Africa. On one side is Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, and all the way down to Nigeria. Now, trade, diplomacy, yes, economic relationship, yes, all of them, yes, but the HDP says no to being a puppet, to being someone else's soldier. We won't be anyone else's soldiers. Each time three parties unite at each thesis, they send their consciousness, mindless. Then he doesn't look at what soldiers are. It's a shame, it's a sin. I don't understand. Why are we sending our money? I mean, do we have to be in NATO, or do we have to be in NATO's hierarchy? Then tell me. Look, there's been a conflict between the Central Government and the rebel groups in Mali. These are the groups in the north. Its population is already 14 million people, 90% Muslim, but the large concentration of the population lives in the south, and the density of the southern population lives around the capital. Here, of course, because of the pains of the global crisis, energy fields, minefields... there's always the exploitation, in a colonial understanding, in a sense of exploitation, in exploitation. There are mineral maps in these areas to exploit. Now, I'm asking the government, can he give me a map of the mine? China isn't indifferent, Russia isn't irrelevant, Brazil isn't irrelevant. Every state has the right to look for opportunities when there are risks in the global crisis. We say, "Go to Latin America and associate with South America and Africa and the Far East." We tell the government we're with you in every healthy relationship and conversation he has on this subject. But what are you doing? The International Criminal Court has issued an arrest warrant against El Bashir, who murdered his own people, and you bring him in and make him speak to us on this stand. Is that the right policy? The Security Council is transferring it to the International Criminal Court. It's a warrant for El Bashir's arrest, so we put him on the stand and get him to talk. After that, we say that if we do this thesis, if we send in a few squads, battalions, we'll enter the European Union. Who's kidding who? There's no reason to fool each other. Turkey is in great danger here. I'm warning you. Guys, we're warning you as HDP. A similar jihadist group in the Middle East exists in Africa, especially Mali. In Africa, if you do as wrong as you did in Syria's foreign policy in Turkey, if you have a relationship with those jihadist groups on one side and you have a relationship with NATO, with the European Union, you don't know what you're going to be. You can't walk around as the sons of such an empire. Second of all, you can't be a global force. You do it, you sell it, you build it, you sell three biscuits. They'll sell the gun again, they'll buy the mines again, and they'll give us jobs like subcontractors. These subcontractors include the use of the Turkish Armed Forces. Don't make me use it, guys. Don't get involved in this. It's very, very unacceptable for him to tell you. Turkey will sink through three channels. We'll vote down. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0039par0100	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0040par0104	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Armed Forces to the Prime Minister's Office, which envisions re-establishing the stability of the Central African Republic and Mali, under the invitation of the European Union, to support the country's armed forces and security forces in support of the political transition process. I hereby salute the High Council. The issue of the developments in the Central African Republic, which faced a deeper political crisis every day after Michel Djotodia's military coup against President François Bozize, in March 2012, made it even more important, especially after recent violent images. Many international organisations, including the United Nations, have suddenly brought the Central African Republic to the world's attention, warning that genocide or ethnic cleansing could lead to the development of the country. In earlier times, even the European Union, who usually pursues events behind their backs and prefers only to provide financial support in the process, has begun to actively participate in developments in the country. Precious MPs have been Chad, the key country in the Central African Republic for years to form political life. With his support from former President François Bozize, Chad supported the coup attempter, Michel Djotodia, and in fact wanted to continue his key role in political developments in the country. But this time, the move to change power has expanded the problem in the political field in a way that leads to conflict between Muslims and Christians. Hence, the main cause of the problem in the country is the efforts to preserve the effectiveness of the regional country, Chad, and that the fragile political structure within the country has become a social problem. While this problem is being tried to be controlled from one side, some local groups, on the other hand, want to draw the political problem into both depth and social space, especially by attacking Muslims. Djotodia, who has been in power since the March 2013 military coup, has resigned in January 2014 after social and religious conflicts that began in December 2013, when violence broke out of control in the country. Acting interim President Catherine Samba-Panza began her post on January 20, 2014 and was appointed to prepare for the election in 2015 by forming a technocratic government. In the process, some 1,600 French soldiers joined the African Union's Peace Corps, whose number was around 4,300. At the end of January, the United Nations Security Council has appointed a 600-strong European Union of Poland, Belgium and Estonians, especially at the airport for the safety of more than 100,000 people living in Bangui. Despite these efforts to speed up both his military presence and the process of political solutions, there is still no solution to prevent conflict. Dear MPs, the African Union had about 5,300 military assets in the country as part of a mission approved by the United Nations in December 2013, but unfortunately the presence of the African Union has not been able to prevent the military coup since the beginning of the process, nor has it succeeded in preventing the conflict since. In particular, the African-led Central African Support Mission, which is suffering from difficulties at the financial and equipment point, has been ineffective in preventing conflict. This has only transformed the African Union's military presence into a force of protection and support, leaving its mission to prevent conflict to French soldiers. In view of the role of another actor in the process, the United Nations has been given possible genocide warnings through high-ranking representatives, but in fact as the United Nations, there has been no other option but to support the military equipment and presence of France. The United Nations attempted to support France's control of the situation in 1994, with more global interest in the experience of genocide in Rwanda, but it continues its efforts to control the situation after human drama, such as hunger and displacement of the United Nations. Dear lawmakers, it appears that France wanted to return to Africa, especially from the beginning of the 2000s, in a slightly aggressive manner. In Sarkozy's presidential era, France, which produces an African policy without seeking more international or regional legitimacy, wants to shape its policy, with the support of more regional and international organisations during François Hollande. In 2012, he was supported by the Western African Country Economic Co-operation Agency, which was both a regional integration organisation and supported by the United Nations and the European Union. The same can be seen in the Central African Republic's policy. Although France is the main shaper of the events, the Central African Republic, where Chad has shaped politics for years now has the intention of increasing France's political and economic efficiency, along with the legitimacy provided by international organisations. It is also seen as an opportunity for France to expand its activity area in Central Africa. Another actor, the European Union, rather than the European Union's Peacekeeping Force, sent to support the elections at various times, has generally not chosen to send a large number of troops to Africa to keep the peace. Following recent developments in the Central African Republic, the European Union has decided to send for the first time a military force of 600 people to the country. The European Union, which thinks that this is not enough, has made an offer to send troops to some other countries, including Turkey. In a traditional sense, this new stance of the European Union, which is not militaryly institutionally supported areas of conflict in Africa, can only be read in two ways. The first is the thought of filling the gap left by the United States of America, which hesitated to send troops to Africa after the Somali experience in 1993, but, after 2000, wanted to show military presence on the continent with the United States of America. Although the European Union has neither the capacity nor the political capacity to have this kind of will clearly, at least it wants to play a slightly more active role than before in the creation of the peacekeeping forces it has always supported in terms of finance. Dear MPs, a second reason the European Union acts rashly is the position of France. In recent years, France has been trying to expand its influence by returning to its former colonies in Africa, somewhat aggressively. As I have just stated, France has revised its policy during the time of François Hollande, who prefers to act alone on the continent and is not seeking legitimacy in regional or global institutions. According to the new policy, the old policy must continue exactly the same, but it must be sought out for the support of regional and continental organisations in Africa. The United Nations and the European Union are the global institutions that are sought for support in terms of legitimacy. Dear lawmakers, in the remaining process, France is generally the leading factor in activities in the African continent, but the cost is covered by the European Union. In light of recent developments, we can say that the European Union no longer intends to give only financial support and leave the implementation of politics to France, but tends to enter a little bit more into the process. This is also the purpose of reining up France, which is trying to legitimize its interests through the European Union and open up space for itself. It is only within this framework that the European Union can send 600 troops to the region and then write letters to some other countries in order to expand some kind of peacekeeping power. In particular, in 2011, the European Union, which gave serious institutional support for the independence of South Sudan, and had significant experiences, intends to take it further. Precious lawmakers, Turkey has never been indifferent to problems in the African continent in particular in recent years as a political actor; in addition to its deep and comprehensive efforts and contributions to regional and domestic peace in Somalia, it has deliberately followed a lower profile in conflicts in Sudan and Mali. These policies, specifically described as quiet diplomacy, have given both land experience and continent dignity to Turkey. Following developments in the Central African Republic, the European Union's request for troops from Turkey must be evaluated in several ways. The first thing that should be highlighted here is that this invitation is now recognized as a political actor who can contribute to problems in Africa. If Turkey chooses to send troops in principle, it will be able to act on the religious scale of the division on the continent and the problem in the country. In 2012, during the election of the Committee of the African Union, there was a difference of opinion between the British African (Afrika) and other countries on the continent, especially the French African (Afrikaa), which resulted in a postponement of the election. In later elections, the candidate of the Republic of South Africa won the election, despite opposition from others. This is an example that leads to a division on the continent and shows that continental integration organisations, including the African Union, no longer act together as they did in the 2000s. The death of 15 of the South African Republic soldiers in March 2013, when the military coup took place, led to an influx in the Republic of South Africa. Thus, Pretoria, who drew its troops, remained out of the question as one of the most powerful countries on the continent in terms of military and equipment. If Turkey decides to send troops and approve the thesis we discussed, it will create a different road map by trying to find a co-operation ground with other key countries on the continent, such as the African Union and the South African Republic, which have seriously considered this division. Another channel that Turkey can open in the context of the problem is structures such as the Islamic Co-operation Agency, when it is thought that Muslims are the main victims. Their involvement in the process will strengthen Turkey's hand as well as affect events in a positive way. Turkey has previously supported countries such as Liberia, Sudan, Ivory Coast, however small. Such participation is the ideal way for Turkey to improve its operational activity as well as its knowledge of the continent. In particular, this type of participation could play a key role in the flow of healthy information from the local community in this process, when events have only been transmitted by the number of media-release organs. Dear lawmakers, our country is involved in a joint policy involving both NATO and the European Union and its joint security and defence policy, foreign policy priorities and national interests, in action from the principle of indivisibility of Euro-Atlantic security. He hopes my Justice and Development Party Group will be approved, one of the indicators of our country's common understanding of the European Union's approach to peace support and the resolution of international and regional issues, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0041par0126	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0040par0127	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0041par0128	The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from İstanbul MP Osman Taney Kurkurk. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0042par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're talking about sending troops to a peacekeeping force again. Here, all speakers referred to various aspects of the conversation. A lot of truth has been told in these. I would like to first speak of a fact: as the Republican People's Party, we support it. Because, as a peacekeeping operation and the Republican People's Party, we believe the Turkish Armed Forces will take part in all the tasks that will help world peace, world stability, peacekeeping missions. This has nothing to do with NATO operations. Even if it had something to do with NATO operations, there's one thing that needs to be known, is that NATO asked us to do this, and we did this. Because NATO is a unanimous decision-making organisation, unlike the European Union, Turkey is a very old member of NATO. Without Turkey's request or approval, NATO cannot make any demands from Turkey. If NATO is making a request from Turkey, it's with Turkey's approval. So, in other words, NATO is not an institution outside of us, we are NATO, we own NATO. But this has nothing to do with NATO. This is an operation based on a UN Security Council decision. Now, in this operation, we all know the position of France on Mali. We also know the French view of the Central African Republic and their relationship. However, there is a decision here, facing the financial community, that the United Nations Security Council will carry out a peacekeeping operation there. And this decision is supported by the African Union. Thus, France's ability to act on Mali and the Central African Republic is cut off in a way by including France. We explained that we would not send troops there to endanger our troops, but to vote positively for the military elements to help bring peace to that region. I want to say this first. Secondly, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, one of the speakers here, asked the right question, asked the very right question, he said: "Where are you in the European Union and the European Union asking you to send military forces there, here and there?" Now, the European Union has kept Turkey's relations quite lax from the beginning, and because of this loose grip, the government today seems to be very enthusiastic, and has had an opportunity to open up and break free from the work of the European Union. The European Union has announced this to prevent Turkey from participating in its own defence and security policies -- my friend who just spoke on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group -- but I'll explain a little bit more -- to prevent Turkey from entering into European security and defence policies -- has destroyed a security agency called the Western European Union, which has been led by NATO. Turkey was a joint member of the Western European Union, a member of the Western European Union's Parliament; the Western European Union closed, the Western European Union's Parliament closed. Turkey has been excluded from the European Union's security and defence policy. No, Turkey's contribution to peacekeeping forces is to contribute to the UN Security Council's decision, but we need to put our relations with the European Union on another basis; where are we in the European Union, we need to rethink, and we need to adjust our efforts towards the European Union accordingly. We see that the Minister of the European Union, who faces the European Union, is in some uncertain positions. You see, sometimes we're going to enter the European Union on this date. It says, "Sometimes if the European Union doesn't want it, we'll turn around, we'll go away, we won't even look back." We don't know where the government stands, where it looks, we need to know that very clearly. The standards of the European Union are important, the people of Turkey are worthy of those standards; we must make sure that the standards of the European Union apply to our people. I think we should see where the words we're talking are going and where they're not going. I'll give you a little example. In an important speech, Mr. President says that a woman named Abdurrahman Efendi is lost on her way to Basra; they go to Brazil, they approach Rio Harbor, they think Rio is Portugal, she stays there, she remembers the woman who told such a story and went there in good faith. Now, even if there's a story like that, it's just not right to say it. I'm going to Basra in 1866. It's nothing to be proud of when a ship came out and fell to Brazil and thought it was Portugal and it belonged to the navy and its country and its banner. There's a device called astrolap, which, those who know about sailing, is an old tool, which is invented by Islamic scholars, used by Greeks, which shows the rise of stars, and when you look at it, you set your course accordingly. Did these marines hold the astrolabe upside down and go to Rio? Where's Rio, where's Basra! Is it true to tell such a story, friends? This story is a very humiliating story. Look, today, the Turkish Republic marine puts its position on a map in a closed space without the ship's windows, the lumbuises. The ship's commander casts his anchor, lifts its anchor, without needing to look through the window, through the lumbus. You're going to Basra, you're going to Rio, you think you're going to Portugal, and a hundred years from now, someone who's President of that country today is telling you. That's a shame, I don't have to tell you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In addition, Muslims found America in 1178. It's a beautiful thing that makes us all proud, but what did he do after he found it? 1178 when, 2014 when? You're looking today, the entire south of America is Catholic; most of the north of America is Protestant; some are Jewish. What did he do after he found it? It's not a story of resourcefulness, but there are times when Muslims are so resourceful, they're so brilliant in science, in science, in inventions, in inventions. Instead of using them as examples, we tell them stories of failures, we try to be proud of them, we interview them, we talk to them, they're not the right thing to do, friends. The troops that are going to the financial community are not such large troops, as I understand it, but headquarters personnel, strategic air support. I think the people who will go will serve the peace of that region. This is a useful activity. Turkey always has to help world peace, world stability, always contribute. In doing so, he needs to look around and try to create peace and stability in his own environment. When we look at our policy on Syria, I'm afraid we don't see Turkey in this line. Turkey is still talking about a move against Syria. The prime minister says he also received a positive sign from the U.S.A. They say we didn't give any sign of America. "Syrian politics has led us right to it, " he says. The President of the United States General Staff says we have no action against the Syrian regime to destroy ISIS. In his statements, the US Secretary of State says we have no intention of establishing a secure zone, a no-fly zone. Biden will come to Turkey tomorrow; he makes these statements in advance before he arrives, and instead of maintaining stability and peace in this region, we are still going to move there, to move here, and to move behind us without further support. We're not against giving troops to peacekeepers, but of course we're against sending troops out to act against the unity and integrity of other countries, other than peacekeepers. So we need to make a good assessment of where the words we're talking about are going to go, where the stories we're talking about as success stories are going, whether or not they're going to be mocked by others, but as Turkey, we need to take our policies, take our positions, and act accordingly to contribute seriously to peace, security and peace in our own country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0043par0147	Thank you, Mr. Korutk. In the name of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0044par0150	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I stand before you on the grounds that the Turkish Armed Forces have been sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the European Union in the Central African Republic and the Mali. On behalf of the groups, Mr. Logoglu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Kaplan and Mr. Ünal have just given valuable talks, and Mr. Koruturk has given detailed information on behalf of his own, particularly to remove some hoardings. I thank each and every one of them. As one of the founding members of the United Nations and a member of many European organisations, particularly NATO, Turkey, as a candidate in the negotiations process for full membership in the European Union, has built the foundations of its security policy on co-operation and partnership policy. Turkey continues to focus on issues such as protecting the country's territorial integrity, contributing to collective defence and crisis management operations in order to preserve international peace, such as maintaining peace, humanitarian aid and police duties, preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and means of launching them, encouraging disarmament, while increasing the understanding of security on the global scale of international cooperation to contribute to stability. As part of the policy of cooperation and partnership, Turkey is still participating in operations and missions of support of peace in Lebanon, Afghanistan, Mali, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia, South Sudan, Ivory Coast and Darfur, Kosovo, Afghanistan, and the Mediterranean, under the umbrella of the European Union, and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. We also continue to contribute under our policy to sea operations against sea bandits and piracy that are concentrated in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are following a holistic policy concerning the security of the European-Atlantic security policy, including both NATO and the European Union, and contributing to the common policy of security and defence of the European Union in accordance with foreign policy priorities and national interests. Despite all the obstacles we face in the context of co-operation with the NATO-European Union, we see it as a requirement of our national security policy as a European ally and a European ally in the process of joining the European Union. From the day it came on the agenda, the joint security and defence policy was also supported by Turkey by the European Union as well as the perspective of membership in the European Union, supported by NOTA or autonomous European Union operations and missions, committed to the European Union's main goal and combat groups. Since 2003, Turkey has been contributing to seven missions and operations within the European Union, Mekodanya, Concordia in Macedonia, Proxima in Macedonia, Congo, EUFOR in Congo, Kinshasa EUPOL in Bosnia and Herzegovina, EUPM in 1 (EUPM in Bosnia and Herzegovina) and EUPM in 2 (EUPOL-COPPS) in Palestine, and ALTHEA in Kosovo. We are contributing to the ALTHEA operation -- just so you know -- with 239 personnel, we are contributing to the EULEX operation with 3 personnel. Mr. President, our African partnership policy includes aiding the establishment of peace and stability on the continent, political, economic and social development; for this purpose, political, economic, commercial, humanitarian aid, restructuring, security, public diplomacy and mediation. Such humanitarian and political crises, which pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa, are also a requirement for our country's military contribution, and for the well-being of the people of the region, issues are being resolved as soon as possible. As part of our African policy, Turkey follows a policy to ensure the territorial integrity and national unity of the financial territorial community, to successfully conclude national reconciliation efforts, to return to democratic order, to ensure political stability and sustainable economic development. In this scope, our country is contributing to the United Nations multi-dimensional Inter-dimensional Stability Mission with 5 police, 2 police and 32 police officers to the United Nations Democratic Republic of Congo Stabilisation Mission, 11 to the United Nations Liberia Mission, 23 to the United Nations South Sudan Mission, 11 police officers to the United Nations Ivory Coast Mission. A total of 2,198 personnel from African countries have participated in courses and training activities conducted in Turkey, as part of the Centre for Perfection of Terrorism, the Partnership for Peace Centre, the Multinational Marine Safety Perfection Centre and visiting military personnel. The training of 263 personnel is still under guest military personnel. The first of the operations that constitute the topic of the thesis is the military action carried out by the European Union under the name EUFOR RCA. The action in question, its legitimacy, is the VII of the United Nations Security Council's United Nations Condition. As part of his department, he received 2134 from the decision he made on 28 January 2014. EUFOR RCA was launched on April 1, 2014 by the Council of the European Union on the basis of the UN Security Council's decision to contribute to the restoration of stability in the Central African Republic and to the support of the political transition process. It has been invited by the high representative of the European Union to contribute to the action. Along with 12 European Union member states, it is expected that our country will also contribute to the operation, which has already been carried out by Georgia and Serbia outside the European Union, with the participation of a total of 741 personnel. I submit the transcripts of these 741 personnel as information: Germany, 4; Estonia, 1; Spain, 93; Finland, 20; France, 323; Georgia, 153. As a requirement of our participation in the joint security and defence policy, we predict that the operation will be supported once every two months, in accordance with our national resources, with the assistance of one staff member to the headquarters of the armed forces in Bangui. In addition to our policy with the European Union, it is a strategic priority for our country, an African country (European-Asian-Africa) from Ottomans to today, to take part in a new African policy, which has entered a new era in harmony with the facts of the 21st century. Mr. President, other missions that constitute the subject of the thesis are the civil mission of the European Union, which was established on April 15, 2014 by the European Military Mission and the European Union, which was established on January 17, 2013, under the UN Security Council's decision 2085 on financial matters on December 20, 2012. The main goal of these missions is to provide strategic advice and training support to the Financial Armed Forces and security forces -- police, gendarmes and national guards. The European Union also invited our country to participate in the missions involved. Such contributions, which are consistent with our country's approach to peace-supporting operations and show the common understanding of Turkey and the European Union's international and regional problems, are making it visible to our European Union accession process, as well as a natural extension of our active foreign policy on the African continent. Dear friends, there have been demands of some of my friends to be criticized here or to be asked to explain, essentially Mr. Koruturk has made significant contributions to some of them, but I would like to add that there is no doubt that Turkey's participation in such operations is possible with international agreements or bilateral agreements. We have an obligation based on a contract and agreement. On the one hand, the United Nations Security Council's decision, and on the other hand, the decisions made by the European Union in its own organs, can never be considered for us to stay out of it. So what we can't think about is, if we have to make a personal, individual decision, what are we doing here, why are we sending people here, or why am I going? So, as a government, I would like to express that we have the obligation to participate in matters that we are committed to as a state, even if sometimes it is symbolic, by considering our national interests, by identifying the present, the scope, and the committee that we are going to form. To explain this, I would also like to bring to the attention of our friends, the Treaty between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey that we signed on June 29, 2006, for the participation of the Republic of Europe in the Crisis Management of the European Union, and it will also determine how we will participate in the operation. Our country makes these decisions for our national interests in this whole politics, which include both NATO and the European Union. If our House gives our government this authority, I want to make it clear that we will use it under this authority. It was actually in my speech, but it was said to be one person, one plane, how to contribute. We haven't received the authority yet, but our plan is to contribute to personnel and non-threatening transports from Turkey or Greece to Gabon or Cameroon, in our own operational and logistical needs, at most, once every two months. We also think of a staff contribution: An expert in transport to the headquarters of the forces in Bangui, the Central African Republic. Surely it can change, but our government will determine its scope, its scope. In particular, it is important to decide that it is important for our national goals to think about Africa, the Central African Republic, and the Financial Republic. Since 2005, we have had a goal in our foreign policy, which we have placed in front of us as our African goal, and we have persistently followed and achieved results. One of them, as far as I know, was that we had only 12 foreign diplomatic missions in the African continent, which is now more than 30 percent in the framework of this goal. It also has economic and commercial contributions. With Turkey's diplomatic relationship, opening foreign diplomatic representations and part of our trade being done to Africa, especially in 2008, we saw the African market grow up and close the gap with the African market as soon as we experienced a shortage of demand from Europe in the global economic crisis that began in 2008. When Turkey was nominated for membership in the UN's Interim Security Council, we received the highest contribution from the African continent. As far as I know, out of one country, all the continent's states voted in favour of Turkey. I believe you all have a great understanding within the scope of these permits and demands. Mr. Kaplan, I mean, why do our soldiers go there? Who's sending it? Whose children are leaving...? It's probably not the time or the ground to discuss them. We, as far as I can tell, have to give a very comprehensive support within the framework of agreements, and I think the basis for that is very strong, the legal basis. Besides, Turkey has a good record in many of its studies. We see in which direction in the world you serve on many continents. The presence of a Turkish soldier or police is much more valid for Afghanistan, where I visited the last time the Turkish flag was represented. Wherever the Turkish flag and soldiers appear, there is a great calm, a great deal of love and devotion. Therefore, without bringing this to a tragic point, we need to look at the matter within the framework of our commitments as a state. I'd like to refer to a sentence by Mr. Kurkurk: Mr. President, in his speech somewhere, he said that Muslims had discovered the continent of America. And in return, there was an argument. Not a bad argument. Whether it was the place or not, it's a critical issue, but when you're being criticized here, I remind you of the use of this argument: well, the Muslims discovered it, and what happened after that? Here, the southern continent is completely Catholic. Muslims already have this feature: Muslims don't put pressure on religion and conscience everywhere they are, they don't force them into submission. (APPLAUSE) While we should appreciate and applaud the fact that this feature that does not apply to others is available to Muslims, why did they remain Catholic and not become Muslims? My respects to all of you. I'm waiting for your support.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0045par0172	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0046par0173	Mr. President, I have a brief request for my position.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0045par0174	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0046par0177	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear MPs, I listened carefully to Mr. Osman Kuruturk's speech. Mr. Koruturk said that Mr. Arinc's explanations would lead to a different direction of what Mr. Korutrk said, and he never said anything like that. Now, who discovered America? Mr. President said: Muslims have discovered the United States. It will undoubtedly be revealed by historians, scientists, based on a claim from Mr. President Fuat Sezgin. Of course, that's a bet. As this claim is evident, unlike the claim that Muslims had discovered at this time, over a thousand years ago, there were allegations that different people, tribes, or explorers had also gone there and discovered America. All these things are studied by scientists, historians, and exposed. Mr. Groverk has made an assessment in this frame. If Muslims had gone there and discovered it, there would probably have been an Islamic society. He made an assessment. Otherwise, Muslims will go and force people to become Muslims. There's no such thing. It is the fundamental rule of our religion, the scripture of the Qur'an, and there is no compulsion in religion. Mr. Groverk never said anything like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0047par0181	Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, please welcome Mr. Sadik Badak.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0048par0187	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on my own behalf on the statement presented to our Parliament and discussed by our government. On this occasion, I salute the President and the High Council. Dear MPs, the political and social crisis in the Central African Republic is still under way following the 2012 military coup. The security gap within the country leads to widespread human rights violations targeting every part of society. The eradication of law and public order and the violence of this cause brought with it a religious and ethnic dissolution, setting the stage for demographics in the country. Although the administration today has been transferred to a civilian provisional government, despite all efforts, security problems in the country have not been eliminated. At the height of the crisis, as we've all seen on television, civilians who are threatened and mostly Muslims have been displaced. In the country where demographic structure has changed, there is still a constant risk of conflict and division. It is also reported that about half the population needs humanitarian help. Precious lawmakers, the internal conflict in Mali (Fali) has primarily triggered internal political instability and ultimately reached the threshold of division. Thanks to the international community's efforts, the administration was temporarily handed over to civilians in April 2012, but internal dynamics proved to be insufficient to eliminate unrest in the country. Eventually, as a result of the international community's efforts, the process to ensure constitutional order, along with the arrangement of parliamentary and presidential elections in the financial community, has taken a promising route and talks between the Malans have been launched. What is particularly satisfying is that the international community has shown a sensitivity to these human crises in the Central African Republic and the Financial Republic. In this framework, the United Nations Security Council has authorized the deployment of the Financial International Support Mission (Fiscal Support Mission) in Mali, which was led by the United Nations Security Council's Decision 2085, and has led by Africa, and has allowed an inclusive process to begin in this country. On 17 January 2013, the European Union established the Financial Military Mission on the same decision. The goal of this mission is to get the Fiscal Armed Forces to the military skills necessary to ensure the country's territorial integrity and eliminate the threat from terrorist groups. To this end, you are provided with advice on command control, logistic support, human resources management, human rights and the protection of civilians. In addition, the European Union has launched a civil mission for Mali. As part of this civil mission, which aims to complete the Financial Military Mission, it is envisioned to provide strategic advice and educational support for financial security forces. In response to the crisis in the Central African Republic, the United Nations Security Council adopted a unanimous decision on 5 December 2013, and the African Union of the Central African Republic authorized its task force and French military forces to organise operations in the country for 12 months. On the basis of the continuing crisis, at the January 28, 2014 meeting of the United Nations Condition VII. As part of his chapter, he adopted Decision 2134, inviting United Nations member states to support humanitarian projects and work for the Central African Republic, authorising the European Union to launch operations in the Central African Republic, inviting United Nations member states to contribute to the remembered action. It is in our Parliament's discretion that efforts to contribute to the stability of the Central African Republic and the financial community by calling for participation in our country today should be answered positively. Precious lawmakers refer to the establishment of stability in Turkey, the Central African Republic and the financial community. Our country also strives to contribute on every platform to efforts to preserve territorial integrity and independence of the Central African Republic and the financial community. In this context, international organisations have supported efforts to address the problem from the very beginning. Without a doubt, it would be appropriate for us to maintain such support in the same way. I personally benefit from the positive response of the invitation to our country. The initial assessments indicate that at this stage our country could provide strategic air transport support with the assistance of personnel to the headquarters of the forces in Bangui. There will also be evaluations for appropriate contributions to the financial missions. Of course, they can be seen as a modest contribution to the problems of the countries, but they will also complement our country's efforts toward our brothers in the Central African Republic and in the financial community. Precious friends, the participation in this operation will not be the first time our country has supported the initiatives of the European Union within the framework of joint security and defence policy. Since 2003, Turkey has contributed to a total of nine operations and missions, which have been completed and continue three. Turkey is the second largest contributor to the ongoing military and civil aid mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Joining this invitation to our country from the European Union would also show Turkey's importance in the security and defence of the European Union, I believe, to some parts of the European Union who are trying to keep Turkey away from the European Union. Such contributions, which coincide with our country's approach to peace-supporting operations and show the common understanding of Turkey and the European Union's international and regional problems, are also appropriate for our nation's understanding of civilization and its mission to serve humanity. The definition of our country's support programmes as "Neoosmanism" and "exploiting policy" is a far-fetched approach, in its lightest expression. The military assistance of such humanitarian and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa will be a natural extension of our peace-based, active foreign policy and our partnership with the remembered continents in the region and Africa. Today, I wish to greet you with respect to the approval and approval of the elements of our Turkish Armed Forces in the Central African Republic and in the financial and civilian missions.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit02spe0049par0197	Thank you. Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I'm going to re-read the thesis and put it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The European Union is the VII of the United Nations Security Council of the United Nations. On the basis of the power vested in him on 28/1/2014, he decided to perform military operations under the name EUFOR RCA (EUFOR RCA) to contribute to the restoration of stability and support of the political transition process in the Central African Republic. In connection with this invitation, our country is envisioned to provide strategic air travel support with a staff contribution to its headquarters in Bangui. On the other hand, the European Union established a military mission called EUTM Financial (EUTM) on 18/2/2013, as part of the UN Security Council's resolution 2085 (2012/2012). The European Union also established a civil mission called "EUCAP Sahel Mali" on 15/4/2014. The main goal of these missions is to provide strategic advice and training support to the Financial Armed Forces and security forces (police, gendarmes and national guards). The European Union also invited our country to participate in the missions involved. The trends of our participation in operations and missions in the Central African Republic and Mali are envisioned as part of the "Conspiracy between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey to join the European Union's Crisis Management Operations" signed on 29/6/06. Our country is involved in a joint policy that involves the security of Europe and the security of Europe through the principle of Euro-Atlantic security, including NATO and the European Union, and contributes to the European Union's Joint Security and Defence Policy in accordance with its foreign policy priorities and national interests. Such contributions, which coincide with our country's approach to peace-supporting operations and are a sign of the common understanding of Turkey and the European Union's international and regional problems, also make our accession process visible. Meanwhile, it is estimated that the military contribution to the solution of such humanitarian and political crises that pose a threat to regional stability and peace in Africa would be a natural extension of our active foreign policy, which we are monitoring in the region and in general on the African continent. I move from this approach to allow Turkish Armed Forces to be sent abroad as part of the operations and missions carried out by the European Union in the Central African Republic and Mali, and to be used by the government for the use of these forces within the framework and on the basis to be determined. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Thursday/11/2014, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment. On 20 November 2013, Kars MP İstiye was given to Birtane and his friends in 4364 rows (4364 rows). Lu) It has been suggested that the measures to be taken under the rights of children in Turkey and the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Parliament for the sake of determining the legal arrangements will be taken before other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly and to be read in the presentations Thursday (20/11/2014 and talks to the same date. In favour of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0050par0016	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion to investigate the rights of children as the People's Democratic Party Group. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, today is the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. As it is known, the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights was unanimous on November 20, 1989. Turkey signed the agreement on September 14, 1990. The contract was adopted in Parliament on December 9, 1994 and entered into force on January 27, 1995. Unfortunately, when Turkey signed this contract, it was drawn into many articles, and these reservations are still valid today. Because of reservations, millions of children are unable to benefit from basic rights. Turkey does not protect its right to believe and practice the culture of children of different ethnic, language, or religion. In the same way, children are not given the opportunity to study in their native language, to protect and develop their own culture. The clauses listed on the bench are the 17th, 29th and 30th Articles of the Convention on Child Rights. In the 17th article (d) they encourage mass communication tools to show special importance to the language needs of children of a minority group or a native community. The 29th article (c) joke is the development of the child's respect for its parents, cultural identity, language and values, the national values of the country where the child lives or comes from, and other civilizations that are different from its own. Similarly, the 30th article is not deprived of the right to use its own culture, to believe in its own religion and to use its own language, along with other members of the minority community, who belong to such a minority or native population in the countries of soy, religion, or language-based minorities, or indigenous peoples. Dear lawmakers, these are the articles Turkey put in its recession, as it is known, but it doesn't mean that Turkey must not mean that it obeys or enforces other substances it does not put in its reservations. Turkey's overall human rights report card and in particular the child's rights report card are obvious and is, in fact, weak. See, the 6th article of the contract -- not under this -- is that the governments acknowledge that every child has the basic right to live. The entity states make the maximum effort possible for the survival and development of the child. Is that the case in Turkey? Let me just give you an example or two that's not true. And since it's the anniversary, I think that's the most meaningful example. See, on 21 November 2004, in Mardin, Uður Kaymaz, 12 years old, was killed by the police of the state with 13 bullets. Again, this is the case of Berkin Else, which is nearby. Also, 34 people were slaughtered in Roboski, and 19 of them were children. As it is not enough that Uður Kaymaz was killed with 13 bullets and his father, the perpetrators -- we can say it in every 3/its case -- are promoted, the police are acquitted in the trial, the Supreme Court approves the acquittal verdict, but the ECHM has also issued a conviction for Turkey, especially because of the Uður Kaymaz incident. Again, the third article of the Convention is the basic consideration of the child's benefit in all activities carried out by public or private welfare agencies, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies. Is Turkey really like this? Children's work, sexual abuse, children's problems with access to education and health care continue to increase. Children lack even their basic rights. Children's crime rates in Turkey are also high for reasons related to poverty and poverty. At the same time, children can be considered members of an organisation or political party in Turkey, and can be tried as political criminals, such as adults. Although the trial is in juvenile courts, the process is run without child rights. Thousands of children were tried under the Anti-Terror Law on the grounds that they only threw stones or chanted slogans. They've been sentenced to over 20 years in prison. Over the past month, nearly 600 people have been arrested for supporting the Kobani resistance, and many of those arrested are also children. Only over 30 children have been arrested in the area of Ağrı, and the number of children taken into custody is expressed by thousands. According to the Human Rights Association's data, 39 children were tortured in juvenile prisons and 64 children were tortured at detention sites, according to applications made to the Association from 1 January 2014 to 19 November 2014 and press reports. Among those dates, 360 children were taken into custody for social events and demonstrations, 59 children were arrested, and 42 children were injured. Unfortunately, these children are also being violated in prisons. Recently -- you'll remember -- we've been following the posant, Shakran, Furksians, Antalya, and most recently the children who remain at the Sincan Children's Correctional Institution with torture, abuse, and other degrading treatments in the name of humanity, with shame and great anxiety. Dear lawmakers, children under the age of 19 in Turkey are 39 per cent of the total population, 30 million. Children under the age of 15 represent 29 per cent of the total population, 23 million. Of course, child mortality rates can refer to a improvement in children's rates of epidemics, schooling rates, in other words, in education, health care, nutrition, housing and so on, compared to previous years. In contrast, in access to all basic rights, including education, health among children, the inequality from basic differences such as ethnic, regional, language, faith, gender and class maintains its full weight. At the head of children who are at a disadvantage in Turkey are non-Turkish children whose native language is at the head of them -- disabled, underdeveloped and rural children, children in poor urban neighborhoods, Romas, Alevis, non-Muslims, children in the conflict environment, international immigrants, girls and so on. About a quarter of the children live in poverty. The number of people facing serious risks in the recession will likely be even higher. Poverty among children is even more common for adults. Some of the worst forms of child labor can still be observed in Turkey. It deprives children of their right to health and development, the risks they face are increasing, their future is at risk. The girls and boys are exiled from one place to another with their families to join seasonal workers in agriculture. Many children, especially girls, have to leave primary school for reasons such as poverty, child labor, conservative social roles, domestic responsibilities, low expectations and harmonisation issues, but they are not yet fully faced. When girls are forced to marry at a very young age, it's still a problem that goes on and on and on. Drug and harmful substance addiction is increasing every year in Turkey, including many children. This age has come down to ten. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With all these problems, I salute the General Assembly, celebrating the World Children's Rights Day of all our children, especially refugee children, who have escaped from the war.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0051par0033	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı against Peoples' Democratic Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0052par0037	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have received a pledge from the People's Democratic Party, and I salute the General Assembly. As you all know, today is Children's Rights Day. The meaning of our lives, the hope, the assurance of our futures, everything I celebrate with my sincerest feelings our children's Day of Children's Rights. No matter what we do for our children, who, from the moment they were born, have influenced the elders, have given meaning to our lives, have brought us all back to our childhood days, it's very small, because they are our future. All parents use whatever means they can for their children to the fullest. They'll do anything to grow up and be useful to society. In the emotional, spiritual, and social development of small bodies, the family environment also plays an important role, as well as factors such as school, environment. In the process of our children's development, we need to raise them as parents, adults, knowledgeable, educated, moral figures, and focus our attention and attention on our children in order to avoid bad habits. We are pleased to observe that sensitivity, except for a few parts of our country's people, is shown to our children with great care. However, emotional protection is not enough for our children while they continue to develop in the family environment and social life. There are measures that must be taken for their protection, education, health, physical and psychological, and some legal arrangements must be made. The Children's Rights Convention was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on November 20, 1989 and entered into force on September 2, 1990. Our country began implementing the Children's Rights Convention in 1995. As we prepare our children for the future, we all have our duties as community, state, and individual. For us to leave a more habitable world for future generations, we need to protect nature well, to be sensitive. Our country has taken major steps in child rights policy in recent years. Today, the level of development of societies is directly related to the way children and children view their rights. In that regard, I'd like to briefly share with you what we've done with children's rights. Our country is a party to many agreements on child rights by the United Nations as well as the Council of Europe. In the fight against children's protection from sexual abuse, the European Council's Convention on Child Protection was signed by our country in 2007 and implemented in 2012. The Council of Europe's Convention on Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence and Fighting Against These was approved by our country in 2014. Our country has also approved international agreements on preventing child labor, including the Convention on Emergency Measures for the Prohibition and Extermination of Children's Labour in the Bad Conditions of the United Nations International Labour Organization 182, and the ILO Convention on Asgarial Life Asgarials. Under the ILO Convention No. 182 signed by Turkey, a time-related policy and programme framework covered by 2005-2015 was implemented in the cooperation of all concerned sectors in order to prevent the worst forms of child labor. Work on preventing child labor is being carried out with the support of all institutions and organisations involved in the Co-ordinating of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Under the service model for children living and working on the streets, living and working in Turkey through the Prime Minister's General Assembly 2005/5, it is provided for the removal of children from the streets, begging, using substances, being directed from the streets, treatments for drug abuse, housing, feeding, clothing, health and education, and such needs to be reintegrated with the community. Children who are withdrawing from the street and work life are referred to social rehabilitation, while children who are addicted to drugs are referred to health care centres for child and teenage drug addiction. For children at risk, measures are also taken to prevent prevent preventive intervention, preventing children from working on the street, living, begging. The cities where it is busy have been co-operated with control and service activities for children. Studies have also been made to improve the working and social lives of seasonal traveling farm workers, to reach education services for children who remain out of education under strategy and action plan. The plan was adopted on December 10, 2013, and it reveals the general framework of strategy between 2013-2017 and determines actions aimed at developing services for children in many areas such as justice, health, education, private protection services and media. In addition, the National Action Plan for Fighting Violence Against the Child is under way and is in the process of ratifying it. With studies on education, the rate of going to school between 2011-2012 and 2012-2013 increased to 99 per cent during the first four years of primary school and 93 per cent for the fourth year and 70 per cent in secondary school. The children's justice system has also established 31 judicial rooms for children in 22 cities. Under the Child Protection Act, there are a total of 100 children's courts in all provinces, which have been envisioned for the establishment of children's courts. In addition to the families of children who are in need of alternative care, the ministry has prioritized their care, with families with economic support, with no protection of around 50,000 children. They also provide all kinds of education, health, clothing. In addition, children who have been protected especially for economic reasons have been provided with financial support for their families and return to the families of the children. Our ministry, the victim of crime, is a child support center on the street that leads to crime and is at risk to children between the ages of 11 and 18. Children's support centres are the centers for psychosocial support programmes, including the processes in which children can be adapted as a healthy individual in social life. Hospitals under the Ministry of Health have been established in order to minimize the secondary pattern of children who have been sexually abused primarily in order to prevent child abuse and actively interact with abused children, to ensure that legal and medical procedures are conducted in this area by educated people and at one time. Yes, as it turns out, there has been a lot of work done during our rule, but it is thought that it is not enough, so the work is going on. As I end my words here, once again, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0053par0059	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. In favor of the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, please come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0054par0062	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is November 20th, World Children's Rights Day. The United Nations Convention on Children's Rights is a human rights document adopted by the largest number of countries in history. Since the signing of the contract on November 20, 1989, every November 20th is celebrated as Children's Rights Day all over the world. Turkey signed the contract in 1990. The contract defines the rights of all children without gender, religion, social origin, and discrimination of the country. The basic values that guide this contract are: It's a 5-accession. Like all over the world, our children face various challenges in Turkey. Children need to be protected and improved physically, mentally, emotionally, socially, morally and economically. Children's problems in Turkey include child labor, child brides, education and health poverty, violence, abuse. According to Article 1 of the First Amendment to the United Nations Children's Rights signed by Turkey, each person is a child until the age of 18. Given the legal age, anyone who is not 18 years old is referred to as a minor. The main reason children work in Turkey is poverty. Poverty is due to poor income distribution and lack of minimum wage, unemployment, rapid population growth, failure to provide informal economics, technological improvements, the difference in regional development and migration, depending on many different problems. Children of low-income families enter the working environment to provide support for the family, at least by paying for their own expenses. In particular, the acceleration of migration from village to city has raised the problem of slumming, leading families to become economically difficult in urban life, leading children to work on the streets and in some business sectors. Privatisation policies today also increase the number of children working. Children working in long periods and unhealthy environments has a negative effect on their physical development and physical health. Studies conducted with the support of Ankara University and Hacettepe University have revealed that the bodies of children working have been distorted. When Turkey's children's report card is taken care of, the situation does not look good at all. We have cities in Turkey that have serious problems with children on the street. In the last five years, child crimes have increased, child neglect and abuse have become widespread. We've become one of the most troubled countries in children's rights teaching. Children's rights violations have become common. Turkey has not been able to reach the goals it has committed to the Children's Rights under the Dair Charter since 27 January 1995. Child's rights compliance laws, yes, is said to have been prepared, but not at the desired level. The Child Protection Act is not enough for the child justice system. What are the obstacles? The obstacles are that the state does not have a child's policy. Of course, children's policies were mentioned. In the Republican People's Party Programme -- and I'll make it clear to you, dear friends -- there are provisions and regulations for children's policy in a very detailed way to start from page 271. The National Movement Party has it the same way, and HDP has it the same way. In the same way, I have the Justice and Development Party program, dear friends, starting from page 629, you will not find a single sentence about child policy, my dear brothers. So, there's a verdict on child policy in all the parties that are now in Parliament, and the ruling party is the Justice and Development Party, if there's only one party that doesn't rule on child policy. What are the obstacles to child policy? The lack of a state policy is one of the most important obstacles ever determined. To overcome this barrier, you must create protective, preventive mechanisms and adopt a general children's law. The lack of coordination between institutions is another important problem. Another problem with co-ordination is that there is no database; there is no database for monitoring the child who enters the justice system and the transactions made about it and allowing it to be conducted in one hand. The fourth general problem is that the sharing of the budget does not provide sufficient and balanced funding for institutions related to the child justice system. So, when the budget is supposed to be child-oriented, human-focused, unfortunately -- at the time of the start of the republic, there is a constant backward turnover in the parliament for the child's share of 45 per cent as the child's share is being separated now at 27 per cent or so -- in the budgets. Another problem is, if we go back to where we left off: the infant and the lower five-year-old deaths are still very high. The Mother's Children's Emergency Action Programme is not actively implemented. Health insurance has been provided between the ages of 0 and 18, but again, children receive payment under the name ▪ and families have to pay for it. There's trouble like this. Qualification training failed. We're a country that can't train gifted children. The project for improving school health could not be expanded. The number of children in need of protection is increasing day by day. The service against the siege of the Law of the disabled is limited. Turkey's Grand National Assembly has prepared the Research Commission Report on the Reasons That Drop Children in the Street Children's Troubles, which needs to be taken into consideration, with all the problems written in the report, but the research commission report is on hold. If only that report had been fulfilled today, we'd have come a long way today on child rights. Turkey is among the risky countries in the matter of child pornography. A child needs to be protected from the negative effects of the media and to develop a system in this regard. Turkey's children's indicators are below the world average. Again, in Turkey, our bright young people, our children, were killed. Like the children who were killed in Uludere. Berkin Elvan was killed by a gas capsule when it should have been the future of this country. It was a country where children were killed, killed, Turkey. Most importantly, Turkey appears to be a country that delays child problems. The main goal of the Republican People's Party is to prevent the children born in Turkey from being exposed to inequality due to conditions that are not in their hands, and in the long term to eliminate the inequality in Turkey. The Republican People's Party strongly believes that it can end inequality in future generations through policies towards the child. As a social democratic party, we have a comprehensive, powerful children's policy programme aimed at ending the inequality of the Republican People's Party, and it's important in this sense. We demand that the ruling party take advantage of it. The Republican People's Party's children's policy, as stated in the programme, demands that this be implemented at an effective, efficient and rapid time under the Children's Rights Convention. We support the motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0055par0096	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Against the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal, Mr. Hakan Sergeant. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0056par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow MPs, I have taken a pledge against the group proposal given by the HDP to determine the measures and legal arrangements to be taken under the rights of children in Turkey. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I congratulate and congratulate all the world's children on the occasion of November 20th, the Day of Children's Rights. Congressmans, I've been on the stand as the second speaker of our group. Mr. Nurdan tried to explain the policies and actions that we had implemented during the time of our glorious governments, and unfortunately his ten minutes of time did not cover all of them. So I'm going to tell you what he's missing or what he can't grow. Maybe -- we've seen it here from the other character's speech -- and I think it might be useful again, and I can repeat a few things. Dear lawmakers, we, the EC PARTY, always regard our children as a guarantee of the future, and we refer to them with a special emphasis on preparing a happy, safe and bright future. In this regard, the family and the state's obligations in the protection of the child are also guaranteed by our Constitution. Such issues as child rearing, education, health, family protection have been specifically highlighted in government programmes. In relation to the child rights of a party that has ruled for 12 years, the activities of children are obvious, it has been done, so since we have the opportunity to participate in government programs, we also place them in terms of party policies, but we've specifically highlighted them in government programmes. I'd like to point out that our friends have a point where they can benefit from re-evaluating our government programs. My dear brothers, my dear friends, in Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, it has been ruled that the measures taken for widows and orphans and veterans cannot be considered against the principle of equality. Here, as you can see, there is positive discrimination for children. You know, we brought this to the agenda of our country with the 2010 Constitutional referendum, and we all passed the legislation together. On the other hand, for the protection of children, the 41st Article of Family Protection and Child Rights is one of the basis of the importance given to family and children. Children's rights to the most sensitive part of society continue to be on the national and international agenda, and policies and practices related to the child are closely monitored by our government. The United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, approved by our country in this framework, is also before our internal law because it is an international contract on fundamental rights and freedoms, according to Article 90 of our Constitution. Again, Child Protection Act 5295, which entered into force in 2005, is an arrangement that includes basic norms regarding children. In addition, our government adopted the Old Man Protocol in 2004, confirming that the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights was involved in additional Children's Armed Conflicts. Turkey has also signed and is in the process of ratifying the Additional Elder Protocol on Individual Declarations, which will allow the United Nations Children's Rights Committee to assess individual applications. On the other hand, under 18 years of age, health care has been provided for all children, including general health insurance, which is an important provision. Indeed, this opportunity for children under general health insurance has not been considered in earlier times, and this is also thought - inspiring. This is of particular importance to children in general health insurance, especially in premature births. Because these children, children born premature, have daily health costs of over 2,000 lira, dear friends. Again, under the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, it has been arranged that everyone who has not reached the age of 18, should be considered a child, and the exceptions regarding the area of the children's courts have been removed, preventing the trial outside the juvenile courts. In accordance with the service model for children living and/or being employed across Turkey through the Prime Minister's General Assembly 2005/5, it is provided for children living on the street and/or on the street who are being asked, who are being asked, who are being pulled off the street and directed to or vocational education, the treatment for substance abuse; housing, nutrition, clothing, health care, education and so on; reintegration with society. In addition to national and international regulations in the field of child rights, services such as education and health in our country are offered to children for free, I have already mentioned that. These units, which are very difficult to establish and operate, have been served by the Ministry of Health and continue to be serviced by the Newborn ICU units. For example, between 2011-2012 and 2012-2013 studies, the rate of schooling has increased to 99 per cent for the first four years of primary school, 93 per cent for the second four years, and 70 per cent for middle education. Dear friends, the schooling rate in primary school has increased to 99.6%. While the social gender difference in secondary education has fallen from 1.5 to 1.2, the schooling rate has increased by around 6 per cent to 76.7 per cent due to increased distance education. At the same time, the families of children who have been protected especially for economic reasons have been supported and returned to their families. Congressmans, as I mentioned at the beginning, I'm here as the second speaker of our group. In the first ten minutes, I kept counting our actions here that my congressman friend couldn't raise. Let me just count them for now, and I'll keep them in mind, but I'd like to put the bottom of one thing in particular here. Friends, one of the most important issues that arises as a problem in our Turkey is that children are sometimes used as an ideological front, sometimes because they're children, and children are used as a forum of advantages in their criminal licenses and are constantly pushed forward in chaos and criminal environments at this point. In fact, in this sense, it's very important for our children, our society, and our generation to act in a common way. Dear friends, the political perspective of the EC PARTY is clear. AK PARTY is a party that invests in future generations, not future elections. Our children are the next generation. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all. Because of our agenda in parliament, I declare that we are against the HDP group proposal. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0057par0120	Thank you. I put the People's Democratic Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory council's meeting on Thursday/11/2014 (now), I propose that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. Our motion to open a parliamentary investigation Thursday (March 21st 2013) at the General Assembly (now) on Thursday 20/11/2014, in order to determine the necessary measures to be carried out by actively fulfilling the responsibility for suspicious processing of resources that provide financing for terrorism, has been proposed by Bursa MP Necati Özensoy and his friends. In favour of the National Party of Action Group's proposal, Mr. Necati Özensoy, MP of Bursa. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0058par0136	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to investigate the funding of terrorism. I salute you all. Of course, it's been over a year and a half since we submitted this motion. Terror, of course, is the problem of the world and its methods all over the world. Terror has three legs: One is its armed forces; another is its publicity; another is its funding sources. And of course, the most important of these 3 legs are the funding sources. If you destroy this terrorist organization's financial foot, if you finish financing it, there will be no effective public pressure or any attempt to create public opinion. In my opinion, the most important part of the fight against terrorism is fighting the financing of terrorism. Of course, in this sense, in recent months, at the point in recent years, the government, despite our constant warnings that there would be an active fight against terrorism here, on every platform, on every platform, although we've always expressed that, this terrorist organization, which has done great damage to our country, which has martyred our young, especially at the point of fighting the Kurdistan Workers' Party, unfortunately, chose to negotiate, not the fight. In particular, in 2010, Mr. President of the Government is meeting with the terrorist organization. When he said "The Prime Minister of that day," he made accusations to Mr. President of the United States, so that I wouldn't be able to talk to him in the squares again, so that I wouldn't be able to talk to him, and that's what he's doing, and that's what he's saying, if you don't prove it, that's what he's saying. Of course, now that we've come to the point, he also stated that he himself had sent the Deputy Prime Minister of the day, today's Undersecretary of MIT, Hakan Fidan. The words he said about Mr. President that day turned to whom, and for whom? I'll leave that to your appreciation and the public's discretion. Of course, over time, a number of laws have been passed, regulations have been issued, etc. in the fight against the financing of terrorism and so on. When we look at the gaps in the laws involved in this, and so on and so forth, the common opinions of the lawyers do not include the PKK. In the form, these are the statements of the legal experts in their branches. Look, now, what's the terrorist organization doing right now, how's it fightin'? As you all know, as you say, the terrorist organization has now started collecting taxes in its territory, and we've passed the donations. He created finances, started building courts. So, in that sense, he began to develop funding by growing his foot in a way that was now very comfortable, and that was way ahead of his resources from drugs or other sources. Here are some talks under the name of the peace process, which led to the resolving of the state of the Republic of Turkey, or was it a means of resolving the terrorist organization? At the point where we came to, the statements made by those speakers in Kandil, the process is over. The statements of those separatists in Kandil are made clear and clear about the fact that thousands of young people joined the terrorist organization during that process. Now I want to ask you this: The PKK has been terrorizing this place for years. For the past 12 years, the current government has continued its practices, its work. In 2003, especially after that March thesis, the terrorist incidents that ended in 1999-2002 continued to escalate. Even during what we call today's solution process, even when the table was expressed -- look, I've just taken out a document of what the terrorist organization did here in two days -- in two days, the PKK did close to 10. I mean, how is that sitting at the table, what is that, what is that? Here, look, the PKK has opened a recruitment branch in Varto. Unfortunately, the PKK will continue to plague us again, not as a force against the state, but as a force against the state, in a way that will continue to become more and more powerful, in a way that the PKK they officially declare will continue to continue to serve in Varto. Look, not only is there a state in the Republic of Turkey, but there's a lot of terror experts and people in the world who follow up on it. Even a terrorist expert from the United States has done many of the work done by the PKK in Turkey, such as smuggling counterfeit drugs, sir, border smuggling, sir, which has been distilled from them, drug trafficking and so on. Now, has the government done any research in that sense in the last 12 years: how many people does this terrorist organization have, how many weapons do they have? In order to move and manage these people, how much money does he need per month, year -- whatever -- to do these actions, and in what way is this money being provided, and in what way is it being delivered to this terrorist organization? Has he done any research? MIT, what good is the National Intelligence Agency? Don't the National Intelligence Agency have anything better to do than sit in Oslo, in Kandil, with that baby killer in Imran, and negotiate with him? Or isn't it the duty of other security forces of the state to investigate and actively fight the financial resources of terrorism? Really, we've been watching with caution, unfortunately, over recent years. And the election is coming up, and now, we're all going through a process where you have this terrorist organization, especially in the Imralı, where you're holding hand-to-hand babies, you're providing various opportunities, and the Undersecretary of the MIT goes out of his phone and sends special messages from places like WhatsApp, etc. When I first came here in 2007, I asked the Minister of Justice a question in the budget talks, and I said, "Have you detected any information that has been passed on to the terror organization, something related to the direction of the land?" If you did, what did you do about it? In 2007, he said, "We've given cell time twice." I'm looking at it now, instead of the lawyers at the time, the government's own authorities have appointed some of the MPs here, not as couriers, to do their ads comfortably. So that's what the terrorist organization -- the prime minister at the time -- is saying where from, as the current President is calling it -- that's where it's brought Turkey, and that's where it's really come from in your time. Hopefully, I salute you all to take every precaution in the power of the next election to eradicate this terrorist organization as soon as possible.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0059par0151	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0060par0154	Mr. President, I've been promised a nationalist Movement Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. The MHP group proposal includes today's agenda of the parliamentary research proposal for the necessary measures on funding for terrorism by conducting research into the effective, timely and appropriate implementation of the mandate to prevent terrorism's financing. Terrorism that threatens humanity is a major problem for all countries of the world. Turkey is the head of the most affected countries in the world. Therefore, it is clear that as one of the most damaged countries in the United Nations, we need to prevent financing terrorism and contribute to the solution within the framework of international cooperation and invite the entire world to be sensitive about it. In the fight against the terrorist organization, it has been revealed today that his understanding of neutralizing terrorists alone is not enough. Therefore, the necessary measures for financing terrorism must be taken and put into practice without delay. International cooperation is essential to prevent global financial movements of terrorist organisations. If all the countries of the world don't work together on this, it's not possible for the countries to do so alone. The relevant measures set out in the UN Security Council's decisions on this matter must be taken without delay by member states. Terrorist organisations need a large amount of financing to run their operations. They try to obtain this funding through many illegal and illegal activities and methods. A terrorist organization that has been cut off from financial resources is unlikely to survive for long. Therefore, in an effective fight against terrorism, national and international financial resources providing logistical support for terrorists must be drained. In order for these funds to be drained, the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Terrorism is responsible for taking the necessary measures to the entity states. According to the contract, the state will take the crime of financing terrorism as a criminal offense in domestic law, taking the necessary measures to ensure proper punishment by considering the weight of these crimes. The United Nations Convention on financing terrorism was signed in 1999, although it took effect in 2001, internal legal regulations and regulations in our criminal legislation have not been implemented until the EC PARTI governments.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0061par0159	When? 2013.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0060par0160	There are before 2012, so in our penal code, the fight against terrorism... I'll tell you in a moment. Of course, the law on the financing of terrorism, yes, 2013, but before that, I'll tell you about the arrangements for our internal legislation. The crime of financing terrorism entered our legislation for the first time, under Article 8 of the Anti-Terror Law in 2006, and according to this, the perpetrator will be punished as a member of the organization, even if the funds were not used, for the first time knowing that all or partly terrorist crimes would be used in the process. This arrangement entered the Anti-Terror Law in 2006. Before that, there was no regulation in our Anti-Terror Law on financing terrorism in our country. In our Turkish Penal Code, the sanctions of the crime-related property laundering have taken place in our internal law in 2005. The Law on Anti-Terrorism was adopted in Parliament on 7 February 2013, and the basis for the implementation of decisions made by the United Nations Security Council and by foreign states and our country to prevent financing terrorism in order to freeze their assets. As part of the prevention of financing terrorism, the Law on the Absorption of Criminal Infinities has also been appointed to MASAK, to collect data, collect suspicious transaction notifications, analyze and assess, and to make arrangements to implement the decisions of the Council of Ministers on this law. Since the day of the Law on the Financing of Terrorism came into effect, MASAK (A.K.A.), in 2013 25,500 reported 29,500 suspicious transactions in the first 10 months of 2014. All of these notifications are subject to a preliminary review by MASAK systems, with high scores as a result of this elimination, and are being thoroughly examined by experts and reported to the relevant prosecutor if there is a criminal situation. At the same time, reports by the United Nations Security Council on the cutting of financial resources for international terrorist organisations such as Al Qaeda, ISIS were made to MASAK, which were quickly converted to the Council of Ministers' decision, and at times we see these decisions in the Official Gazette. Our nation believes that over the last 12 years that we've left behind, the AK PARTI government is working to solve all of our country's problems, and it also solves an important part of those problems. Our nation believes that the problem of terror that has haunted our country over the past 30 years will also be resolved, and supports the actions taken by the EC PARTY governments in this regard. Our government, trying to eliminate the social, cultural, economic causes of terrorism, has taken significant steps to drain the financial resources of terrorism through its regulations and practices. When we look at the legislation regulations in this area over the past 12 years and look at the practices that have been implemented within the framework of the legislation, we see that there has been no effective, comprehensive and adequate work, especially in the sense of legislation, to cut off the resources of terrorism until the EC PARTI power. It is not possible to participate in declarations concerning the financing of terrorism that legislation adopted over the past 12 years has not covered the PKK's terrorist organisation. As of today, we have followed the collapse of the terrorist organisation's shell-trafficking companies, major drug and human trafficking operations -- all together -- and we are determined to see what is the extent of the government's decision on this issue in the United Nations Security Council, as a result of the fact that 54,000 suspicious transactions have been assessed by MASAK in the country, and the demands for the freeze of several assets from the United Nations Security Council have been issued in the Official Gazette. Therefore, at this stage, I believe the House does not need to do any further research. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0062par0172	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. Mr. Ali Serindağ of Gaziantep in favour of the National Party of Movement Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0063par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal from the National Movement Party Group. I salute you all. Congressmans, today is World Children's Rights Day. You know, Turkey is a leading country. Before the Republic of Turkey was formed, in 1921, a community of children was founded under the name of the Eftal Society, which is now called the Children's Welfare Agency. Gene, Turkey is the only country that gives its children a holiday. Thus, children were given great importance in the establishment of Turkey. However, caring for children is not about recommending children to have many children, but about providing children to prepare for the future in a peaceful, safe, and happy environment. That's how the Republican People's Party sees it. Congressmans, our country is the most involved in terrorist activities and has experienced the most negatives caused by terrorism. Therefore, the fight against terrorism is of great importance to our country. One of the most conservative methods of counterterrorism is the draining of terrorist financial resources. First of all, we need to point out that the problem is a little bit of a definition of terrorism while the anti-terrorism regulations are being made in our country. Unfortunately, the government accuses all those who oppose it in what they call democracy, all forms of opposition are considered terrorism. For example, the government described travel protests as acts of terror, branding the people involved in these protests as terrorists. Congressmans, we need to take a look at what terror is first. It has many definitions, but in its widely accepted sense of terrorism or terrorism, it is the use of all forms of violence, intimidation, and pressure against civilians towards official, local and general administrations in order to achieve political religious or economic goals. Organised groups carrying out terrorism are called the terrorist group, and the terrorist groups are also called the terrorist group. All terrorist organizations need financial resources to carry out their activities, no matter what the goal is to achieve terrorism. These are aided by countries who support terrorism, both illegal activities and revenues from legitimate-looking activities. Criminal groups for profit also fund terrorism from time to time with illegal activities. Drug and arms trafficking, human trafficking, immigration smuggling, threats, blackmail, extortion, extortion, robbery, and kidnapping are at the top of these activities. Funding by force from companies or individuals involved in tenders is one of the ways that terrorist organisations have applied for financing. Congressmans, no doubt terror is a serious crime of humanity. I've just stated that it's important to avoid financing terrorism in the fight against terrorism, which is a serious crime against humanity. The financial resources are cut off, the financial resources dried up, and the terrorist organizations are also in a position to explain that they will not survive. The measures against the financing of terrorism are useful and necessary because they can reduce or destroy the bad consequences of terrorist activity and attacks. This approach, which means that financial control not only allows the monitoring of militant activities, but also allows for preventive measures to be taken. Also, the fact that financial activities are under scrutiny leads extremist groups to constantly change tactics and to establish communication that creates opportunities for gathering intelligence. The destruction of the financial resources of terrorism requires international cooperation. Terrorism has been on the agenda of the international community since 1934. Although an agreement was drawn up by the League of Nations in 1937, it did not take effect. Since 1972, the United Nations has also looked at terrorism as an international problem and has been interested in it. The General Assembly's contribution to the fight against terrorism has become concrete with international contracts dealing with different aspects of global terrorism and its Global Anti-Terrorism Strategy, which it adopted on 8 September 2006. Now speaking before me, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzen said that everything was done during the AKP era. Already, the United Nations accepted the contract in 1999, and Turkey approved it in 2001, and it took effect in 2002. And you were in power in 2002, so what you're doing is what a normal government would do. However, you're late. You know, the organisation has even threatened to hold Turkey back and put it on the blacklist. You know that. So, you're a little late, so we need to know. The first and most important international agreement -- which includes detailed arrangements to fight terrorism's financing -- was made in 1999, as I said. A number of Security Council decisions on the prevention of terrorism and financing have been made, and these are Security Council decisions 1267 and 1373. Dear lawmakers, the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 1267 has been set up by a list of individuals and organisations providing financing, support to terrorism, and the United Nations member states are obliged to stop the assets of the individuals or organisations listed on this list. However, at your time, Yasin Al-Qaedi, who was on the list, entered Turkey from time to time, and allegedly was met by the government's elders or relatives and held talks with them. Members of parliament, as I have just said, the Financial Action Task Force has assessed the AKP's power as a government with strategic flaws and shortcomings in the fight against terrorism. In 2013, the government finally brought a law on the financing of terrorism to the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and that law was problematic, and the Republican People's Party MPs had already expressed the shortcomings of the law. Now, I'm coming to the end of my speech, and the point is that if you want to prevent terrorism, you need to create an environment that will eliminate the causes that created it. You can't prevent terrorism by saying that you can't prevent terrorism from destroying it, or by applying developments that would facilitate the creation of such an environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we say too much, our borders have turned. Currently, there are around 2 million people in Turkey who are said to have come from Syria or Syria -- we don't know if all of them are from Syria. Part of this is on record, not part of it. Last time, I believe, at the Plan and Budget Commission meeting, it was said that about a million people were registered, but that means that a million people are still off the books. They're unknown who they are, where they come from, what they've done, what they've done now, what they're living with, where they're staying, who they're in contact with. If you create such an environment, if you train terrorist groups in your country to reduce the regime of a neighbouring country, if you send them to that country, you make your own country a country open to terrorism, open to terrorism. Therefore, if Turkey wants to prevent terrorism, if the government wants to prevent terrorism, the environment that will enable terrorism must be eliminated. But what the government has done so far, unfortunately, is to provide a system of environments that will lay the groundwork for terrorist activities. I'd like to advise the government to give up this practice as soon as possible. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0064par0193	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Against the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal. On this occasion, I salute you all. Today is November 20, 2014 -- 12 years before that, on November 19, 2002 -- the 12th anniversary of the establishment of the AK PARTY governments, which came to power alone after the November 3rd elections. I hereby thank all of our party officials, ministers, lawmakers who served our country in every field for twelve years, who worked so far for the development of our country, growth, the establishment of the peace environment.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0066par0201	If it's private, we'll go out and you two can talk.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0202	You listen to me, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0066par0203	If it's private, we'll go out and you two can talk.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0204	The speaker before me, our beloved Bartin MP, Yilmaz Bey, technically briefed us on the nationalist movement party proposal. From the day the EC PARTY governments were formed to this day, they worked to ensure the country's peace, unity, unity, and continued to work.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0067par0206	Why don't you get to the point?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0207	The precious Republican People's Party MP said you were late. We agree with you on this: We are late on one thing, and if only we could have taken over the flag after the late Turgut Ozal, Turkey would have had those lost years in the 1990s.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0068par0209	I didn't say you were late. I said if it was private, go out and talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0210	With zoning operations starting in 2002, Turkey would have reached a better level of development, and we're joining you at this point. The understanding at the point of counterterrorism has changed, along with the EC PARTY governments.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0068par0212	This is the seat of parliament, where the AK PARTY...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0069par0213	Dear Private, please.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0065par0214	In the fight against terrorism, only the understanding of destroying the terrorist has been removed, and studies have been conducted on socioeconomic and cultural areas that feed terrorism. Our very valuable lawmakers told us about the work that was done on the financing of terrorism. When we're on the road -- even though you don't accept it -- we do everything we can to get social support, to get the community behind us, to get the support of the nation. That's why we're here today. Hopefully, today we're celebrating our thirteenth anniversary, and in many years, we're saying that with your support, we'll serve the country, the nation, with a sense of opposition that you support the work done well. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0069par0217	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0070par0218	Brother, why didn't you tell me about it? Why didn't you tell us about the terror?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0071par0219	He's got the facts crossed, so he doesn't know his party's founding.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0072par0220	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0073par0221	Guys, I can't hear Mr. Serindak.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0072par0222	Mr. President, the speaker has twisted my words. It's like this: I said, "You're late. You're late to make arrangements for the terrorist's financing." I said, "I'm late." And Mr. Orator, by turning these words upside down, it's as if they've come to power themselves.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0073par0223	No, he didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0072par0224	That's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0073par0225	No, I heard it, it's separate... no, I can promise you, there's nothing wrong with it now, that's not what he said, I listened to the subject, but go ahead and fix it.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0074par0226	Not from your point of view, but from our point of view.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0073par0227	Well, it's all right with me, because, Mr. Kaçir, for you, it's all wrong with me, and I can't say anything to him, but now, we're trying to take this council administration in silence, in power, in good faith for the day. That's why we can't agree with you on these issues. Anyway, take it easy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0075par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, now the AKP spokesmen are taking too much advantage of certain issues. One of the things that's been abused...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0076par0234	I didn't exploit it.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0075par0235	No, I don't mean you. One of the things that has been abused is the assessment of the late Mr. Turgut Özal. Look, I advise you to go to Google and look into what your former president, Mr. President, who is currently sitting in the presidency, said about Turgut Özal, will you say these words? You, according to the ground and time, feel close or distant, according to the conjunctive, both exploiting the late Menderes. Find out what your elders said about them, and then tell me what they said, and that's the first one. Secondly, when the AKP was in power, it was a minimum of terror in Turkey, almost a no-show. You know, everybody knows that, but your practices, your actions, your perspective on terrorism, what you said about terrorism, unfortunately, brought Turkey into this environment. You can't cover it up by ignoring it or saying something else to suppress it. My dear friends, I repeat, look at what your president, your current president, has to say about Turgut Ozal, and then talk. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0077par0242	The nationalist movement group suggested...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0078par0243	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0077par0244	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0078par0245	Now, the keynote speaker from the AKP made a speech there, as if we had said we didn't need social support. We didn't do that.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0079par0246	You didn't say that!
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0077par0247	Mr. Special, don't fuel the fire.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0078par0248	No, it's not about the fire.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0077par0249	No, I didn't say you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Don't, for God's sake, object to every word I say! Here, I'm listening.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0078par0251	That's out of the question for us. I mean, we're not talking about social support or anything. We've been talking here, clearly and openly, about the responsibility of suspicious processing of resources that provide funding for terrorism. So, let's just...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0080par0253	You gave me the numbers.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0078par0254	You gave him numbers... you spoke as if he was supportive, you said yes, but now, here, as if we were talking about social support or not taking him.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0081par0255	Okay, you just told me that it wasn't. Thank you. Now, I'm going to vote...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0082par0258	But I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0081par0259	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0082par0260	If they're really going to fight terrorism, they should really take out the funding resources. So right now, terrorists are collecting money. Everyone knows that, and so does the Home Secretary. Make it go away. Also, they've declared an autonomous zone in five districts, so they can eliminate it.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0081par0261	Mr. Halaçoglu, you told me. Now I feel terrible, but as manager, I feel terrible. You did, okay, and the speech happened. Now, I'd like to put the National Movement Group's proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm trying to get everybody to talk before this TV is over, and I'm getting beat up by everybody, and I'm eating from you and I'm eating from here. Come on, let God take care of this freak.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0083par0267	No one beats the President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0081par0268	I'm literally getting my ass kicked by everybody.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0083par0269	No.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0081par0270	Anyway... The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 20/11/2014 (now) meeting on Thursday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political parties, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. İstanbul MP and Deputy Minister of the Group M. A parliamentary research proposal for the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 20/11/2014 to determine the solutions by searching all dimensions of Akif Hamzacebi (Akif Hamzacebi)'s child labor problem. lu) has been recommended to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, which will be read in the 20/11/2014-day jointly and held in the same dated combination of their talks. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group proposal, İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, please come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0084par0282	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Children's Rights Day. The 25th year since April 20, 1989, when the Children's Rights Convention of the United Nations was adopted. This is the 25th year of the World Day of Child Rights. The Children's Rights Convention is a contract that states the rights of children to member states, and that member states must make appropriate arrangements. However, even so, there are still many countries in the world that violate child rights. In developing, underdeveloped or underdeveloped countries, child rights violations are extraordinary. Children's rights violation is the most important thing that comes up. Child labor today is the common problem of developing, underdeveloped, underdeveloped countries, and the main cause of child labor is poverty. Poverty, unfortunately, leads children to work. Parents want their children to work, leaving children's right to education aside, leaving their schools aside. UNICEF, which is the United Nations Emergency Aid Fund for Children, takes on child labor as a child taking on a job that somehow harms him, and child labor is an application that harms him in terms of the child's physical and spiritual development, in terms of his childhood, in terms of his education, in terms of his health. Again, child labor is, unfortunately, an open area of exploitation, either as a free labor or as a very low-cost, low-paying laborer. The most exploited people in the world are workers of child labor. This is the problem of all countries, the problem of developing countries, and Turkey. Working children are an important issue of our country today. These kids can't go to school, they can't go to school enough, they can't take advantage of their medical rights, they get sick, they can't go to a doctor, they can't get treatment, and above all, these kids can't have childhood. We have children who can't live their childhood and therefore can't complete their physical, mental development, who can't complete their cultural, social, educational development, who are left out of social development. This is a very important, very urgent problem. Dear lawmakers, when we call it the problem of child labor, I suggest that we look at the statistics that TÜİK is doing in Turkey. I can't say that the figures of the TÜİK are not reliable figures. I'm going to make some assessments of the statistical method a little later, but if we're going to be based on a number, we're going to have to move on the figures of the TİK. TÜİK publishes statistics for working children in various years. His latest statistics were published as a result of his work with the local labour market survey as of October 2012-November-December 2012. According to these figures, there are 15 million children in Turkey and 893,000 of our children work. When you say "kid," you also have to show which age groups are children, what age group are they in. The United Nations defines children as people under the age of 18, and anyone under the age of 18 is a child. The ILO (International Labour Organization) has adopted a slightly different definition. ILO defines children under 15 years of age as children who work to earn their own lives and as children who work to help their family, and according to ILO, other young children or young people between 15 and 24 years of age are defined as young workers. In Turkey, the age group based on the statistics of TÜİK (TİK) is an age group under the age age of 18. At the bottom is a six-year-old group of children. Although under 18 years of age, the number of children working is 893. This statistic has seasonal workers in it -- particularly when seasonal workers return to their homes -- which is 2012, considering the October-November-December, winter, autumn-winning period, the figure in this statistic is not realistic. In fact, the number of child workers is more than 893. IF TİK had done this statistic in the summer months, we'd have a figure of maybe 2 million people. From here I would like to make a suggestion to TÜİK. Please do the statistics for the next term in the summer months, where these children go to work for the season; do it in the Black Sea; do it in the Mediterranean; do it in the Aegean region; do it in the southeastern Anatolia region; from there, how many children have gone to work in another region. Again, according to TÜİKbook figures, half of our working children, 50.2% of them can't go to school, so a child of every two children can't go to school, and a child of every two children can't go to school. There's a lot of sad stories about that. I'll try to offer you one as long as time allows. Again, nearly half of our children work in agriculture, 44%, and a significant number of them are seasonal agricultural workers. These children migrate to another city with their families, where they work to earn their lives or to help their families under inhuman circumstances. It's a total exploitation scheme. I find it extremely wrong to place such a great deal of exploitation on the child's tiny body, the child's tiny body, under such a heavy burden. I see it as the responsibility of this Parliament to correct it. Dear friends, there are associations working on this, there are great studies. The Life Support Humanitarian Aid Association has a very good report. I'm also celebrating our association for doing this study. That's some pretty good stuff. Look, I just gave you some statistics on education. According to the preliminary report of this association's 2014 study, one third of children aged 12-15 do not go to school. It's a very important thing: all the moderns, when they go to school at the age of those children, they don't go to school or go to school. They have no right to education. ▪ According to the laws, everyone is equal. It doesn't mean anything to have a definition. Everyone's equal by law, but these kids don't go to school, they don't go to school. The rate of not going to school and not going to school is increasing as the age rate goes up. 71 percent of the children in the 16-18-year-old group cannot attend school. Over 18 years of disaster, 90 percent of it can't go to school, can't go to school. These children have no right to education. Look, I'd like to bring one of the few stories in this association's report -- maybe I won't be able to read a few -- to your attention. The story of a child named Reyhan, from his own mouth, of course, is that the name is not a real name, but that our child and his family are not to be upset by another name. Reyhan: Reyhan is 13 years old, and has migrated with his family, a seasonal farm worker since birth. Reyhan, who had received a transfer when he was a child, had not returned to his home since he was ten years old. He went to elementary school, but didn't make it in order. His father was studying, so I got them out of school. If I stay there, I have no income, and I have no salary to feed and send the children to school, and since they cannot attend school regularly, they cannot receive education from the government. Reyhan has a brother, Adile, 11 years old. She spends her time mothering little children where they migrate. She can't go to school either. Reyhan and his brother Adile live in a camp in the village of Longisa, in the Army, when they go to pick nuts and live in very difficult conditions. Time won't let me, I can't tell you anymore. With this motion, we want to investigate the causes of child labor and find solutions. I need your support. Come, let's accept this motion. That's the problem we all have in common. Let's all figure this out, guys. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0085par0300	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. İstanbul MP Abdullah Levent Tüzel against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0086par0303	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I agree with the Republican People's Party's parliamentary research on child labor in the day the World Convention on Child Rights was adopted. It's an extremely flammable need in terms of our country's situation and its problems. Before I speak, the mother of a young revolutionary youth, who was once a child, died in the Holy Gezmiş İstanbul, where she was once an idol in Turkey. He returned to the sea, leaving behind thousands of seas. My condolences to his family and loved ones. Again, on the Day of the Children's Rights of the World, on 21 November 2004, I cherish and honor Uður Kaymaz, who was shot with 13 bullets at Mardin Kızıltepe, 12 years old, in front of his father. Because the understanding that kills these children and strikes these children is not yet over, I fondly remember the man who was shot and killed by a gas flare in June again last year. Yes, on World Children's Rights Day, the landscape of Turkey on child labor is 30 million young and children, 23 million under 15 years of age. Unfortunately, our laws allow child labor on the condition of elementary education. So the child labor that the world forbids, the contracts forbid, is under a legal umbrella. However, the Children's Rights Convention has brought many provisions for the high benefit of children and for their protection. Child labor, crime, punishment, prison concepts, he didn't find them compatible. But we have nearly a million child laborers, including construction and agriculture, working on industrial sites. Now, about that, a question has been asked to the Ministry of Labor by a friend of our opposition MP. The Ministry said they've assigned 18 inspectors in this area, so we're in a lot of trouble. In the recent killing of a worker as a car accident, those seasonal farm worker women in Isparta Yalvanç have lost their lives with their children, and the landscape we see there has dropped to an average age in agricultural labor to up to 11. In the first nine months of 2014, 42 children's workers were killed. Especially after immigrants in Syria -- about half the children's age -- we see that they are considered cheap labor resources that are being exploited as workers all over the country. I mean, children, child laborers, once again, come to us all over the country, all over the country, open to all kinds of abuse, labor exploitation, sexual abuse, violence. I'd like to remind you of a few examples, especially since they still haven't been accounted for. Ahmet Yıldız is 13 years old, his head is on the table for $18 a day, and the boss who employs him is fined $30,000 to be paid in installments for 24 months. Yilmaz Governor was 16 years old, and his father, who had epilepsy, was unable to work, dropped out of school and died from the 8th floor of the construction he worked on to get his own sister to study. At the age of 16, Serkan Altunay fell down on the fourth floor where he lived and went out in Bolu. The conditions of many construction workers, many agriculture, industrial workers. In another way, I'd like to mention the view of our children: this time -- whose parents leave their children at home because their parents work -- this unfortunate parent is taking their children with them at a factory in Antalya, but unfortunately that factory -- because this is the answer from the Ministry of Labor, it employs 12 workers, and because it has no obligation to make a day care, 6-year-old Ali Can Öz is dying under a log. That's the living conditions of the working family, and that's the minister's answer, unfortunately. Today is one of these monopolys that exploits the love of children, the love of children because of Children's Rights Day -- I'm often talking to you here today -- there's an ad in the Country Factory, the company -- that encourages our children to buy sugar, biscuits, chocolates -- says: "Happy so that you're happy. Now, this company, who has been talking about this slogan and exploiting our children's love, is in a position to talk about happiness, children's love. If you ask me why... Because I burn my factory, and I don't let the DİSK in there. He's been throwing eight of his workers out there for days as a result of a misogyny of labor, and he's forced them to resist. Don't those eight workers have children? Sadly, the situation of the workers, the children of thousands of workers like those eight workers who served that factory for 20 years has been in this condition. I'd like to address the owner of the land and the investors who behave like him: Don't treat your workers, your families, your children like this, and don't waste their working life. I'm telling them for 12 hours, don't waste their lives loading their backs full of pounds of chocolate, sugar, flour. Dear lawmakers, look, when 80 per cent of our country is living under poverty, I'm going to force you to work for a minimum wage and raise you a dollar a day in 2015, live with that. When I say, there's a chance that a lot of winners will pay a lot of taxes, a crooked and unfair tax order, tax policies, as long as money, privilege, and religion are being exploited, the education system is so, of course, that there's a chance that there's going to be a whole year, some time in the summer months, to contribute to the family's income, to the family budget. That's what Turkey has to offer to the working family of this brutal, barbaric work and community life, this backward capitalist order. So, what do we say? Beyond these laws and prohibitions, he, who actually exploits human labor, child labor, he, in school age, must study, feed, run, play, develop his personality, save the violent capitalist barbarism that drives children to know the world, and fight to get rid of it, the workers must join their hands. Now, some of those workers have faced state violence today in front of the House. They voiced the health workers' demands to be discussed in the health budget, but they were faced with a gas, baton, assault. Dear lawmakers, as long as the savings of workers in this country are spent on Ranta, war, and, of course, billions of dollars in white palaces, illegal palaces, as long as they don't contribute to the labour family's budget, we will shed tears again... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...a thousand, over a million of our children will continue to work. To prevent this, of course, we must investigate the House and we must all go over these issues together. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0087par0324	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0088par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Children's Rights Day. So, naturally, we all want our Parliament to work with such an agenda, but because of the number of fingers between arbitrary and rightful issues, I'm afraid it's going to shift to the arbitrary side, but I'd like to say that we're taking advantage of this on behalf of my party group, and that we'd like to discuss this for today at least. If only the children could vote, I think the arbitrary side would agree that this agenda should be put on the agenda today, or if all children were at a level of income that would not require their parents to work for their children, or if their parents were not at the appropriate level of income, or if their parents were not at the appropriate level of income, the 32th article for countries signing the Children's Rights Convention says that states protect the child's right to work against economic exploitation or any other dangerous work or physical, mental, mental, moral, or social development, and social development. The entity government doesn't do that, the entity government doesn't do that for a while, unfortunately. In fact, no matter what statistics say, in the last 12 years, we've all seen child labor growing day by day, day by day, with the child laborers we're dealing with, and this child labor is not just working in the field as we think it is. Look at the TVs, the media, where you see increased child exploitation. Competition programs, you've increased the children behind the open boxes in your transition. Of course, there is one thing in the legislation: A person who has reached the age of 14 and who has reached the age of 15 is called a child worker. Even though he calls it a child worker, because of the 90th article of the Constitution, everyone under the age of 18 is under the burden of children and society, and these children are growing in numbers. Well, why? What's with all the child labor? You're looking at government programs, the kid's name is either in or out of order, just like the 10th Amendment in 2010. You know how you used to say to our sister-in-laws that you didn't say, "I'm sorry, you didn't say "woman." Where you call it, there is another disadvantaged group: children. You mentioned their names there, or you wouldn't have thought of them. On April 23rd, you can't think of anything more than the assurance of our future. Sometimes you think about it in education, you know, when you read them separately with a girl-boy. Sometimes they have suggestions, or a system that promotes child labor when you're done with primary school with 4+4+4. It's just that we're against it, we're preparing the legislation. It's not something you say, it's a multidisciplinary job with lots of legs. It's something you have to edit from the country's health policy to education policy to employment policy, all together, like a compound container. Because if you insult an educated person, no one wants to read it. The great man, who was the professor at the beginning of his name, said, "This is a decision-making leader who, in the eyes of the children, will destroy all those professors and ask to be transported." Or the unassigned teachers... who have read and have no job. When you make them read, no one wants to have their child read. Or if he offers you a salary that doesn't pay for the time you've read, what happened to your government, read, he gets three cents, read, at least work, have seniority. He says, children, he doesn't read. In order for families to encourage their children to read, there must first be respect for education and appreciation for teaching in the National Assembly, first for public opinion leaders. First we have to do this first. Besides, we are 99% of us who have faith in Islamic religion, and our book begins with "Read. " If we don't respect reading, we don't have read children. For these reasons, education and education in our country are not exactly desirable. There's a feeling in parents: "What's wrong, dear? Let him do a commercial on TV, he'll be known for it, he'll be famous, he'll make a lot of money. " It's what parents think, because I don't even give needles to doctors who encourage disrespect to read, I'm afraid there are leaders in our country. This is all about the fact that the rights in the country have shifted to the arbitrary side of the law. Of course, there are other reasons: the inequality of income distribution. There are families who say they have to work because of the inequality of income distribution. Who are these families? Migration families. Families who live in places where regional differences are in a negative economic way, families who migrate and live in what we call the slums of big cities. In order to survive in the city where they have just arrived, they put heavy burdens on their small - sized children just to survive, not to enjoy the city's blessings. I've been to a friend's office recently. Let's ask for food by phone. He said, "Sure, whatever you want." Let's have a round. He called me and called somewhere. When I saw the boy who brought those loops, I was frightened, very small. I asked him, and I said, "How old are you?" He said, "I've been taught." Because he knew it was a crime if he was under 15. Someone taught him. It's an office on the other side of Ankara. I said, "Where do you live?" I said, "In my workplace." I said, "Where is your parents?" I said, "He told a different end of Ankara." I said: "How do you go and go every day?" He was so small, so dry, so twisted. I'm sleeping at work, he said. I think what I'm thinking is going through your head right now. What abuses are open to such a child, what kind of abuses are he subjected to, what kind of violence? He gets violent, abused. And we look at it as statistics, if there are some ministers who answer questions as a courtesy. Especially if these children are girls; if the child is a girl and the child is disabled, abuse is remarkable; if the child is a girl, the child is disabled, and if he is an immigrant, it is even more so. Thus, in our country, every aspect of child abuse is increasing by the children from what we call the neighboring country. The child involved in the crime is increasing, the child abused is increasing, and the child working is increasing. Sometimes, there's all kinds of vague work that we understand about how girls work. There are girls who have been asked to sell their bodies, and they come from what we call the neighboring country, which was recently immigrated. The sad thing is, one minister says that Turkish hospitality is incompatible. This is what they call the oxymoron, as the child says the bride. A child is not a daughter-in-law, and a daughter-in-law is not a child. And that's not a word that comes next to hospitality. While the Republican People's Party is at least a term for child labor due to Children's Rights Day, we sincerely support on behalf of my party's agenda for parliamentary research proposals, such as education inequality, inequality of opportunities in health, policylessness in the country's employment, lack of strategy, injustice in the income distribution. We wish to discuss beauty in the healthy family environments of all the children of this country and in the days when their parents' income will not be subject to abuse or abuse. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0089par0342	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu is the final word against the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0090par0346	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have listened and watched the speeches of valuable speakers. Now, my deputies, today is really World Children's Rights Day. However, I didn't read the CHP's party schedule, but if it says "Zero and children between the ages of five" in CHP's party programme, it is completely wrong. Second, child pornography has increased in Turkey. If it is tried, it is wrong. Because, like me, some people who gave their whole life to children and became academics at the university know exactly where children's deaths came from during the AK PARTI rule and how hard they've been put to work for it. Dearly beloved, I say it every time I take this stand. When I was working at the university, before the Change in Health program, we couldn't find a place for our children lying there, find drugs, find money. That's why the professors in all the healthy departments have established associations, taking full responsibility, and we've had investigations about this, but the patient who came in has no money, he can't pay for the hospital, so let him go, they won't be able to provide for their needs there. So, for the first time, this recovery of children between the age of 0 and 18 has been a tremendous relief to the units, the doctors who worked there, and the deaths of these children in 2002 have been successful in reducing them from 31 percent -- newborn deaths -- to 8 percent in thousands -- to countries that can be discussed today. My esteemed deputies, as for child pornography. There was a meeting of justice ministers in Brussels. I went to that meeting with our Minister of Justice, representing Turkey, and he was appointed Minister of Justice of the United States of America. What was highlighted there was this: "Pornography is not just a country's problem. If we don't treat it as a world problem and we don't work it out with the whole world, it won't solve anything. There's been a problem. If you have written to CHP's party program as you have said here, please change it. My esteemed deputies have just stated that our deputy, Ataturk, entrusted April 23rd to the children. And I always say with all my heart that you're the first and only one in the world. Also, the world's first children's hospital was founded in Turkey, and today the Şişli Hamidiye Etfal Children's Hospital is the first children's hospital in the world. When Abdulhamit's own child died of avian palsy, he ordered it to be established in 1898, and in 1899 this hospital was opened with the circumcision of 600 children. It was the first time in the world that Darülaceze was opened and established in Abdulhamite, when children were seen begging and begging with women on the street. The ombudsmen we've gone through with great difficulty from this House, the civilian testers, are a method that comes from the Ottoman community of women. In the war with Russia, the King of Sweden, who was captured in the war, saw this situation in Turkey for the first time and thought about how he would follow the wrongs made in his own country during the five-year captivity there, and took the women's system to his own country in the 1,700.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0091par0352	The King of Sweden?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0090par0353	When you enter into a subject of Sweden, when it is discussed, they say it with great open heart, never, ever denying it. Now, what we're really talking about and what we're talking about here is the situation of child laborers. Now that we're in the situation of child labor, I'm the opposition MP, and I don't want to accept these values of TÜİK... where my valued deputies are at our disposal and where they're not at our disposal. If we believe it, we believe it, we don't believe it, we don't believe it, and we tell it to the agency. Now, in Turkey, child labor is very low. I can easily tell you the reasons for his reduction here. I'm always defending him, I'm always bringing him up, and I always truly believe that the closure of vocational schools has done a lot of damage to this country, and a 15-year-old girl with eight years of uninterrupted mandatory training has been moved to her home after finishing this training, and if her son is working in the field, she's sent back to her field.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0092par0356	Hodja, that didn't happen. You say that a lot.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0090par0357	However, in the 4+4 system, after the first four... a few minutes ago, the opposition MP pointed out here that after four years of training, you're taking the children as workers. No, it's not, these children are being put into work by schools and by institutions that take care of them, consciously, properly, and controlledly, to be paid by that employer.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0093par0358	What's insurance when you're 9?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0090par0359	We can't understand the outcome of this today, but it's possible that -- you know, the goal of the AK PARTY is 2023-2023, and we'll understand it much better, so you have no doubt that we'll see it every passing year. Congressman, I went to a meeting in Paris about this matter.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0094par0361	Did you talk like that?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0095par0362	I hope you didn't say that back there.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0090par0363	At the meeting in Paris, 4+4+4 was registered at the European Parliament's meeting where the educational system contributed a great deal to reducing child labor in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0096par0364	Look at the beggar children in Istanbul, let alone unemployment.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0097par0365	Did they believe it? Did they believe it? You can fool us, but...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0098par0366	Now, my boyfriends, my congressman friends...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0099par0367	Now, here, you know, one of the most important things is the decisions of ILO. What has Turkey done with the decisions of this ILO? The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey has concluded that no one can be employed in jobs that are not in line with their age, gender and abilities. In addition to the rights in the Constitution, there are some basic legal provisions for the employment of children. The first is the Employment Act 4857, which prohibits the execution of children under the age of 15 and provides punishment for the implementation of the provisions under the law. However, whatever the case, you can make as many laws as you want, and if you don't change the mentality, your actions will be very limited.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0100par0368	This sentence is correct.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0099par0369	So change of mind is one of the most important things. It's easy to get the law out. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here we can sometimes agree, sometimes we can't agree, but change of mind is very important. Thank you for listening, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0101par0374	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0102par0375	Just mix up some documents on eight years of mandatory training, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0376	Mr. President, the speaker has made a lot of misappropriations regarding the Republican People's Party programme.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0101par0377	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0380	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have discussed the Republican People's Party proposal. Our talk includes a call to the Turkish Grand National Assembly to address this problem, with understanding over a daily policy approach by expressing a fact about child labor. Mr. Mountainoglu said other things...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0381	No, Congressman, that's what your deputies said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0382	...he said, "pornography." He said something. Since you can't come to child labor, there's nothing you can say about child labor.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0383	I'm here. I'm here, Congressman.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0384	Now, Mr. Mountainoglu, look, this is our program. In our program, there is a chapter entitled Needful Children.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0385	You'll have to review it.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0105par0386	You had reports on the southeast, uh, ah! Not your reports, Mr. Hamzacebi, nor your reports...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0387	Look, this is the AKP's program. I didn't see a chapter entitled "Kids Needed Protection." Because you don't have a priority to protect children.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0388	We protected it, we protected it.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0389	The number of children working in agriculture as seasonal workers in your time has increased, in industry and other sectors, the number of seasonal workers working in the fields. Your face isn't white, I'm afraid it's black, so you can't come there.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0390	We're on our way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0391	That's how you compare programs.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0392	Five minutes of ten minutes of conversation...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0103par0393	Mr. Dağoglu, you said something like that, some stupid pornography.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0104par0394	Your deputy told me.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0106par0395	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0107par0396	No, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0108par0397	Look, here's our schedule.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0109par0398	That's what your proxy said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0110par0399	You're talking to a big professor, that's a shame.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0108par0400	We aim to protect the child from any harmful influence.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0111par0401	You're talking nonsense, you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0108par0402	And pornography is an abuser of children, and it is the duty of Parliament, of all society, of all governments. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0112par0405	Look what you're saying to the big professor.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0113par0406	What he's saying is ridiculous.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0114par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0115par0408	Yes, Mr. Mountainoglu...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0114par0409	Sir, I, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, have been told to speak nonsense...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0115par0410	No, it's not nonsense, it's...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0116par0411	No...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0117par0412	That's what he said, that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0118par0413	That's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0119par0414	I'll make you a promise, but for the record, Mr. Hamzacebi, what Mr. Speaker, you've made up a ridiculous word called "porno."
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0117par0416	What he said is ridiculous; that's what he said.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0119par0417	He said the word. I promise you, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0120par0421	Mr. President, thank you very much for your promise. Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, when your MP came out and spoke here, I received my note, stating that all of this has increased in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0121par0423	Who, who?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0120par0424	However, I thought I was going to a meeting in Brussels about...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0122par0425	Paris, is it Brussels now?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0123par0426	You said Paris.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0120par0427	...that child pornography -- if you look at the same word, if you look at the records -- would not only benefit from preventing it in one country, but that was a problem that had to be taken care of with the whole world. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0430	Mr. President, what I'm saying is that Mr. Dağoglu has expressed an opinion that the word "pornography" should be removed from the Republican People's Party programme. That's what I'm criticizing. This program does not contain a word for "pornography."
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0120par0431	I answered my deputy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0432	No, you said the word "program." Please... That's why I want your word, sir.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0125par0434	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0437	Mr. President, I don't have to come up here and answer when a valued MP, Mr. Dağoğlu, criticizes a Republican People's Party MP, and that MP friend of ours defends himself. That's not my area. However, Mr. Dağoglu, you said that the word "pornography" should be removed from the Republican People's Party Programme.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0126par0439	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0440	I listened. Mr. Atalay, you probably didn't listen very well, I suppose.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0126par0442	I'm listening here, too. You're wrong.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0443	You couldn't listen, you couldn't penetrate it, sir. Look at the records, the fact that a word like that is here...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0126par0444	You used a concept called "bullshit"
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0445	Yes, I refer to the Republican People's Party's programme as "pornography." The word "pornography" can only be found here in one way, and there is no such thing as a danger, so let's protect our children from it. That's what I'm saying. Please, I'm giving you the opportunity to correct your sentence. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0127par0450	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group recommends...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0124par0457	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit03spe0127par0458	Request roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Onur, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Young, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Small, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Aldan. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the Republican People's Party Group voted on the proposal, the roll call was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0013	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0014	Dear President, thank you. Before I closed the hearing, I asked for your word, and it's been moved to roll call. In that sense, Mr. Dağoğlu didn't just use my name directly in his speech. But he describes me as the Congressman in his speech. Because of the bullying...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0016	But you're a lawyer. You remind us all of the Civil Code and the law. Oh, that's great. Now that you've had a break, I'm going to give you a goal, it's beautiful!
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0017	You didn't score on me. Why?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0018	I mean, I can't promise not to tease you. I can promise you a minute from where you're sitting, but there's been a lot of talk about it. If you'd like, I mean, what I understand is, just so we're clear, it's not offensive.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0019	I'll read it in the script, exactly.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0020	Look, I'm saying something else, I'm asking you a favor; you do it, you don't do it. I mean, if it's reasonable, I'd appreciate it. I said something else. Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0024	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mountainoglu must have been missing notes and misspelled. I read exactly what I said in the report: Turkey is among the risky countries in children's pornography. The child must be protected from the negative effects of the media. Development of a system in this regard... Turkey's children's indicators are below the world average. This is the sentence I'm saying, and as a result, it's likely that either he got his grades wrong, or he deliberately used sentences to undermine our party in public. I don't think it's appropriate for a professor, and I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0026	You fixed it, okay.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0128par0027	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0028	Okay, thank you. Because Mr. Hamzacebi protected your party. Thank you, thank you. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd İstanbul Research Centre Charter and the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission and the Justice Commission Reports. The Commission and the Government? Here. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, talks on the second part of the bill, which was considered the main law, were completed. Now, if there are any clauses in the second section, I'll submit them to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on the final clause. In Article 10 there are three motions, which I shall have read and process in order. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 10th Amendment. Article 1 of the article. It's a joke. We propose that the sentence be changed as follows, that the last sentence be removed from the text. The General Assembly chooses the three most noble and most followed voters to serve four years of voting among its members as backup supervisors. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. With the title of the article, we propose and propose that it be replaced as follows. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Article 10- (1) The General Assembly selects three experts from among its members or from outside profession as supervisors for four years. A backup supervisor is selected to complete the deadline if the supervisors' duties are terminated for any reason. (2) Analysts prepare a report each year to submit to the General Assembly by overseeing the annual activities of the board." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current law bill, 640 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0129par0073	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0074	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0130par0075	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0076	I'm reading the reason: The Istanbul Research Centre, which will be set up with the amendment, is intended to prevent its problems in the judicial mechanism. It is also intended to address the difficulties caused by the estimated number of auditors reduced to one. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 10th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. With the title of the article, we propose and propose that it be replaced as follows. Turgut Dibek and his friends Article 10- (1) The General Assembly selects three experts from among its members or from outside profession as supervisors for four years. A backup supervisor is selected to complete the deadline if the supervisors' duties are terminated for any reason. (2) Analysts prepare a report each year to submit to the General Assembly by overseeing the annual activities of the board." Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0131par0088	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0089	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0132par0090	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0127par0091	Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0133par0093	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 10th Amendment of the Istanbul Central Charter, number 640. I salute you. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party's ruling continues to turn all of Turkey's values, all of its institutions upside down, upside down. As a continuation of this, we will make Istanbul a financial centre. It also upsets Turkey's financial system. As an extension of this, an investigation centre is wanted to open in Istanbul. What is the purpose of my investigation? The purpose of the investigation is the creation of a judicial system that will allow the imperialist nation's companies to move freely in the market countries they enter. The countries are trying to create an alternative system because they do not trust their own national judicial system. Turkey has been a part of this investigation, a party in many cases. Now, an inquiry centre will be opened in Istanbul and the imperialist nation's companies will be allowed to conduct horses in Turkey. Dear friends, we're building a center, from many institutions to this centre where there will be an election. But unfortunately, the government will intervene in the vast majority of these elections. The people the government wants will come, and what they don't want will not come. You don't have to be a soothsayer to see it, to guess it. Look at what the Justice and Development Party has done, and you'll see what they'll do. An independent, autonomous, reliable institution is being set up here, as has previously been done in similar cases. It's a similar form of staffing in every area, of creating supporting institutions. Just as those institutions don't work and don't give confidence, this arbitration centre will have a similar end, Turkey will put heavy bills on it. All independent and autonomous institutions, ombudsmanship, Human Rights Foundation, RTÜK, HSYK all will end up the same as they lost their dignity, their credibility because it's created with the same understanding. Today only the AKP trusts the AKP, and today only the AKP trusts the AKP. All institutions act as AKP's agents. Critics of the AKP are being punished immediately. There is no insult to CHP. Blasphemy against CHP has been ignored. Look at the situation in which the protection shield of the AKP has fallen, which is exemplary. Therefore, there is little point in dwelling on the issue of the auditor in Article 10 of the inquiry centre. Our friends in the Justice Commission wrote that the number of auditors was insufficient, with a determination toward the opposition. That's right, the number is inadequate, but there's no point in having one or three people because they're all AKP members. Dear friends, since we're discussing the inquiry, I'd like to know about something here as well. We know there are a lot of issues that go into investigation, such as the Liege files. So I'd like to ask you: which law offices and whom from Turkey have agreed to defend the files that went to Turkey during the AKP ruling period? What are their payments separately? Which cases did Turkey win and lose? That's what we want to know. I've asked about this at the Turkish National Assembly before, but I didn't get an answer. Because there are no rules and no institutions operating in Turkey, there is no control authority for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly said that the Constitution 138 has collapsed on the issue of the judiciary. However, it is not only this clause that collapsed, but that lawmakers' control authority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly has been nullified. The 14433 question motion for Turkey's Grand National Assembly has not been answered, 15,000 questions are unanswered. The control of the Turkish Grand National Assembly is not in effect. There are motions that I haven't heard back in two or three years, can there be such an inspection? The Speaker of Parliament says: "In this matter, I have warned the government nine times." So, what happened when you warned me? Any results? No. Because just as no institution operates, Turkey's Grand National Assembly doesn't work, and the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't. In fact, the same is true of this bill. Many institutions and ministries have grave criticism of the Istanbul Research Centre Bill, saying the bill is incomplete. Is anyone listening? No. So on the one hand, we're building a very important institution, and this institution is going to do very important things. You're going to say, we're choosing from very large institutions. You're going to say, "Well, then you're going to make this entire institution like an official department of the Ministry of Justice." Does this have anything to do with reason, logic? No. Because there is no good in the AKP's work, my dear friends. I look forward to your support of our motion, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0134par0102	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm processing the other motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 10th Amendment. Article 1 of the article. It's a joke. We propose that the sentence be changed as follows, that the last sentence be removed from the text. The General Assembly chooses the three most noble and most followed voters to serve four years of voting among its members as backup supervisors. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0135par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0134par0111	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0136par0112	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0134par0113	Mr. Bal, this is Konya.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0137par0114	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been formed to the 10th article, according to the general board of the Istanbul arbitration centre, which has been formed according to the will of Justice and Development Party (AKP) and I have taken a pledge to be concerned with the 10th Amendment that will oversee the general board and the board of directors due to their work and procedures. Once again, I salute the High Council. The audit board to oversee what? He will oversee the board of directors in areas in which the general council has authorized, which the general council has appointed. In any case, we do not believe that Ali will be able to perform the duty of the auditors who will be elected from within the general council, which will be co-friended, close to each other, but co-founded as a party of the AKP. However, you will reject the motion that, at least in the case of the majority of the audit board members, they will be elected according to the order of their votes, in the hope that the number of votes may be different, not according to the fingers that will be removed, in order that a control body will at least be formed in the form required by the law. Why did you make this request, knowing that we would refuse? A question will come to mind. Of course, it's our duty to at least record the error of your actions here. At least you've understood for yourself how you've led Turkey to trouble with the Constitutional Amendment you've made in 2010, how you've politicalized the judiciary, how you've partyed it, now you've found out for yourself, how you've established a political centre in the legal and commercial conflict resolution of Istanbul. My dear friends, the spirit of that 2010 is in this bill, the spirit of the 2010 Constitutional Amendment is in it. That spirit is to reflect the party identity, the party spirit, at the Istanbul outpost that will be established. What will happen when this is reflected? This area of the judiciary, the private legal area and the board of inquiry here will be felt directly under the color of political authority and under its control. Thus, it would not be understood, even if you call it "independent" or "indiscriminate." Why? Can a government that sinks a bank in Turkey with its own hands be independent and neutral? What financial environment can come to Turkey and believe that the government is independent and neutral in a financial area of the bank that was sunk by its hand, and that the legal area that can control it is independent and neutral? Is there any credibility, legal credibility, in a country he calls the government's head, the Prime Minister, that we can't maintain the public order directly? A country where the Minister of Interior has lost control over the terrorist organization. Can it be believed that it is legally safe and that the legal institution is independent and neutral? And so, knowing that our motion will not be supported by these thoughts, I share with you our thoughts and salute the high council.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit04spe0138par0119	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now I'm taking a half-hour lunch break for the merger.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 640. The Commission and the Government are here. There are two motions on Article 11 that I make read: It's the 11th draft of the current 640 rows. Article (1). We propose and supply to change the reference in the joke into less than five years old. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Turgut Dibek Osman Look at your love The commission has just read a motion signed by all the members of the group.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0139par0014	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0015	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0140par0016	We agree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0141par0017	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0018	I'm reading the reason: The conditions for electing a council member are being rearranged. I submit to your votes the motion that everyone has entered, those who have agreed... those who have refused... are accepted. Now, in the agreed motion framework, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 12; they are of the same nature. I'll read it separately and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. Article 1. To change his joke in the following way, 3. The final sentence of the joke is "The parties who oppose the decisions made over the appeal can also object to the General Assembly within a week of the notification. We offer and propose that it be changed in the form of the General Assembly. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali Riza Özturk Gürkut Acar Attila Kart Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Sky (1) The National Court of Reconstruction and International Investigations shall be established separately within the centre. Of those with experience in the field of observation, five people are elected by the General Assembly, three of whom have at least ten years experience in their profession. The mandate of elected court of inquiry is five years. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th article of the current law bill, 640 rows, be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan İdris Bauken Erol Dora The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0142par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0048	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0143par0049	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0050	First, read the reason for Mr. Buldan and his friends' motion. The amendment aims to prevent the problems the Istanbul Research Centre will create in the judicial mechanism. It is also significant that no regulation of the duties and powers of the International Court of Investigation and the International Court of Investigation has been included in the article. I'd like to ask you the reason for the other motion. In the final article of the article, the Courts of Inquisitors were established in accordance with the Central Court's rules of Investigations in order to carry out the tasks envisioned. 3. The joke mentions the decision on the court and on the application and the objection of the opposing parties. This article envisions a structure where the influence of political power, which is not an independent and impartial centre of inquiry, but of members of institutions using public authority and budgets, will be intense. Since no reference has been made to Law 4686 or to the New York Convention, the International and International Courts of Investigations shall be able to make decisions, not by national and international regulations. Due to the lack of legal confidence in this situation, the application for investigation will be limited, and the applicants will request political protection. A new door is opened for those who have been granted political protection, especially under contract with public administrations on the basis of investigation. This gives the impression that public resources will be drawn back to the allies on the basis of the austerity clause in the contracts. This motion has been made in order to remove this clause from the text, which means it has the power to prosecute a Court where political power will be effective, and in vague terms put the Courts of Investigation under the control of the Governing Body. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 12th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. Article 1. To change his joke in the following way, 3. In the final sentence of the joke, we propose and propose that the parties will be able to appeal to the General Assembly within a week of the notification. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0144par0069	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0070	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0145par0071	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0138par0072	Mr. Acar, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0146par0074	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 12th amendment of the bill on the establishment of a detention centre in İstanbul, 640 rows. I salute you. The 12th article of this bill is founded by the Court of National Investigation and the Court of International Investigation. In this 12th article, there are no openings for these two courts to do what they do. There is not a sentence of duty or authority. In the final part, however, the Court of Judges performs the appointed tasks on the arbitration boards set by the Centre. This is a round promise, and there is no clarity in the task and authority that will have serious consequences. The third joke, however, gives the impression that the appeal against the referee's decisions will be made to the court due to the extent of the decision-making and the duration of the appeal to the decision. That's an impression. In this case, it is a serious problem that even legal members who will be elected to the council are not sought for expertise in the subject of arbitration and mediation. Moreover, the decision of the 5-member court, which is a natural member of the chairman and secretary general, will result in loss of rights. As such, the bill results in full control of the board members. Because it's not fair that the board's secretary general has determined the council members and their methods of incompatibility, that he's determined, that he's direct, that he's effective, that his decision on the court is final. That's why we'd like to at least ask that the objections be made to the general council. What is the measure of the competence brought in by this law, my dear friends, and look at it, and how is it qualified? Is it sufficient to be close to Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who sits in the chair of the president but is still acting as Prime Minister? Like appointments to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, is it sufficient to be the AKP's lawyer? Or will being a Justice and Development Party be enough to qualify? Or is there someone else who's prepared to be enough? It's possible to extend them. This centre will be no more than an institution where AKP's supporters will be neutered, and we will see it together, and there is no need to be priests to see it. Dear friends, there are no institutions in Turkey. The reason for this painting is the position of Mr. President of the AKP (AKP) who actually built himself a $1.5 quadrillion palace. Deputy Prime Minister Arinc says that $1.5 billion is not less than $1.5 quadrillion in old money. $1.5 million is a lot of money, a lot of money. When millions of people live on the edge of poverty, 150 lira a month is taxed from minimum wage, and 1.5 quadrillion liras is a lot, a lot of money, and it's spent on someone's pleasure, and it's not an auditable, account-related money. Now, I would like to ask you, is this palace's taps made of gold or not? I'm sure you'll say it isn't. Well, I want a gold tap tomorrow. What about the lesson? Well, not so much. Can you say that? Mr. Erdogan, millions of people live under the poverty line, people die in mines to earn 800-900 lira, there is no gold tap in this environment. Can you say that? So I'm wondering where you're going to tell your president to stop. Were you able to stop the travel resistance while the children were dying? They drank at the mosque. Did you tell them to stop lying? Can you say, "People are taking care of the park, there can't be barracks there?" Now, the barracks are on the agenda again. Will you be able to say stop? Did you tell him to stop while corruption was being covered? Did you say stop, Shakara? All the municipalities are lining up, donating their buildings to TURGEV. We saw in Antalya that the students were staying at 200, and now there are 500 liras. Is that a bad thing to say to these children? Have you asked them? Education for religious, vindictive youth has been turned upside down, can you tell him to stop? Did you tell him to stop for $400 million? Did you say to stop at the cost of quadrillion for the palace? You can't, you can't, only one person does what they want in this country. Such an understanding would not be such a democracy. Dear friends, institutions in Turkey, justice works only for the AKP. What changed after December 17th and 25th? First, the prosecutors changed, then the definition of the crime changed, the rule of law on the method of the investigation changed, and both cases were ruled untraceable. This is justice and development justice. Is it over? It's not over, but we're out of time. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0147par0082	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 13 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th of the Seeing Bill of the Law. We propose and propose the addition of the general declaration of the article upon the proposal of the article, which follows the word "Krululu" in the (2) joke. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 13th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is 640 rows in session. Article 4. We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the text. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Ozturk Jesus Sky Attila Card Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0148par0101	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0147par0102	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0149par0103	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0147par0104	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0150par0105	Ugur Flagtutan.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0147par0106	Mr. Flagtutan, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0151par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I will not speak on this matter today. Why? Because on the inquiry, our lawmakers have written and discussed the necessary opposition. I'd like to share another matter with the High Council. I've just spoken here dozens of times -- in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey -- about mining at Artvin, about Cerattepe. A few hours ago, a restraining order was issued from the Rize Administration Court. This is very important to us. Look, so far, I've been getting about 50 percent messages, and at this time in Artvin, there's a convoy of people in the streets, in the streets. Let me be clear about the identity of a city, the geography of a city, a city - the joy of saving it from monsters - Artvin. Once again, I celebrate this holy battle of Artvinli, this achievement from the great House. My dear friends, in regard to this struggle, the Artvins have filed a motion to dismiss the positive CED decision at the Rize Administration Court. This case is a process that lasts nearly 25 years. Earlier, the Rize Administration Court made a decision not to mine in Artvin, which was passed through the State Department. We're dealing with a process in this country that, in a sense, has been declared a keenlemek, where court decisions are not even recognized. Despite the presence of this court ruling, ▪Artvin would not be mined. Despite the fact that the court's decision was registered by the quarter, unfortunately, the interested company continued its work on mining. My dear friends, I had a meeting with the Minister -- the Minister of the Forest -- a few days before that. I said it in the words I made here. In my years as a lawyer, the state had a power over those who violated the Law of the Forest, 6831. The state would stand up to those who broke that law, who cut down trees, and we'd be lawyers for those who committed these forest crimes while we were practicing law. Times have changed now, my friends. Look, the Artvins are about 20 days out in the woods, keeping watch in the woods, so the Forestry Manager doesn't cut down trees. I'm guessing you don't, and you might think we're exaggerating. I mean, the Artvins are on guard duty. I'm not making any political party distinctions, yours are involved, so we have you, we have friends from the ruling party, we have Republican People's Party. They put aside their political identities, saying, "Don't cut down our trees." I told Mr. Veysel Erogluna: "Mr. Minister, look, you want to give Artvin another aspect of the same murder in İzmir. They cut down thousands of olive trees in Izmir. Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, If it goes wrong, we respect the law and the law, we do it. But before this decision was made, I couldn't understand your haste to cut down trees. Mr. Secretary-Minister of the Forest -- he told me why they had to cut down trees in a very deep terminology. Dear friends, once again, the Artvins kept watch over the trees day and night so that the trees wouldn't be cut down. But tonight, we learned that there are judges in this country, as they call it, in Berlin. We learned that there is a trial in Rize. I sincerely congratulate the president and his judges of the Rize Administration Court. In Rize, with the discovery here, they presented a picture of a mining operation that would wipe out a whole city, an actual situation. In fact, the decision to stop this execution is a virtue. They have indeed made a decision as to what direction a final decision will be made in the future. Two days ago, I spoke to Mr. Secretary of the Interior Commission: "Look, the Artvinians have never faced state and security forces in any part of the republic." And I'm afraid you're going to be able to bring that face-to-face. If only Artvinli had a nosebleed, the price would be too high. Don't turn the Artvinian against the government. To protect their forest, the Artvins kept watch until morning to protect their trees; they didn't come and ask anyone for IDs, they didn't set up law enforcement teams, my dear friends, they didn't do such things, they didn't discuss the flag, they didn't collect taxes, they didn't print money, I am forming a state. The Artvinians didn't say that. (Applause from CHP rows), they said: "We belong to the Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk," and to the values of the republic. Understand these. We don't want the mine at Artvin. Should we talk about it some other way? We speak Turkish, we don't want to. We know how to make this tender. I've told you many times from here, and I've told you how the tender was mixed up in mischief. Come on, the Artvins don't want this murder. Those who come to Artvin know that you are trying to destroy our brains, our existence, our reason for being on top of the city. If you cut down trees there won't be any cities there, my dear friends. So they put their political identities aside and say, "Don't do this, call this murder, this slaughter. " Therefore, the decision of this evening's Rize Administration Court is very important for Artvin and for that geography, for the environment there, for the flora, for the fauna. So this decision, in a sense, gave us some sort of relief. I'm going to give another speech in the second chapter, where I'm going to continue the rest. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0152par0121	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13th of the Seeing Bill of the Law. We propose and propose the addition of the general declaration of the article upon the proposal of the article, which follows the word "Krululu" in the (2) joke. Yusuf Halaçoğlu (Kayseri) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0153par0127	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0152par0128	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0154par0129	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0152par0130	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0155par0132	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 13th Amendment concerning the secretary general of the Istanbul State Department. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, this bill applies important functions to the secretary general. He is a member of the International Board of Investigations, which must work independently and objectively. He is also a member of the National Court of Investigation. According to the 7th article, we have submitted this motion to allow this judicial decision-making place to act a little more freely in the course of the election. Let the general council make this choice, so let the 29 people you're going to decide, at least if there's a different possibility, can one of those possibilities be considered? he said: "O No, I know you'll refuse. Who's going to choose that? According to the bill, the board will choose. How many people on the board? Three people. These three will also be members of the International Board of Investigation -- the president and the Secretary General -- and the National Council of Investigation -- and will be members of the National Court of Investigation, and with the three people elected, Turkey's decisions on the charge will be made, its principles will be determined, its principles will be determined. I know the meaning of this in Turkish, and I'll tell those who don't know: One man will point to this. You will choose this. He will say, "He will be the chairman of the board, the chairman of the board will choose the chief secretary; he and the general secretary will choose the members of the court, and he will be what the court of inquiry will say by the will of the one man." What makes you say that? I'll give you an example, and you'll pluck your hair. While the HSYK bill was being discussed in the Justice Commission, I made a reference to Mr. Nicema, who said: "If the fingers were smart, the monsters who destroyed democracy would not have appeared." I said: "This law is important, it is law, it is right, it is right, it is right; use your mind, your conscience, your mark." But a substance came to me. And they said, "My brother, this is not going to happen." What was the substance called no? Members of the District Attorney's Office, elected by the President, are allowed to attend any law school they want without testing, and without continuing, they get a degree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0156par0136	It's not just them, it's the administrative...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0155par0137	It's against all sides of the Constitution, everyone knows it, and it's justifiably out of here, out of the bill, but you see, there's a directive coming from somewhere, and then we learn that it's been negotiated. This happened last week in the Justice Commission of the Grand National Assembly, where the will of the people of the Republic of Turkey was granted. From now on, our doubts, our concerns, our concerns, the legislation that is shaped according to that one man's will, the execution that is shaped according to the will of one man, and the judiciary that is shaped according to the will of one man will be subject to the will of one man in the legal and commercial conflicts.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0157par0139	Where are we gonna put the crate? What about the crate?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0155par0140	The will of one man is a government that lacks balance and control organs and mechanisms, which is called dictatorship in constitutional law.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0157par0141	What about the crate? Mr. Faruk, what about the chest?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0155par0142	Yilmaz Bey is a dictatorship. Do you understand? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0158par0145	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions in Article 14 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the Istanbul Research Centre Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose the addition of the "can't testify" clause to his joke. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Attila Kart Uğur Bayraktutan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 14th of the Common Legislature. We submit and propose that the declaration of the Article (2) shall be removed from the text on the basis of the information and documents that the parties have taken without written permission, and that the declaration shall not be made without the written permission of the parties and the third persons concerned. Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0159par0164	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0158par0165	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0160par0166	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0158par0167	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0161par0169	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this motion has been made to correct sentence and dissension. I'm skipping this place because we know the outcome, and I'd like to share with you today what I think of the state of law, the state of law and dictatorship and public order, the domain. The countries that are supposed to be democratic are two types: one is the state of law, where the law is superior. The other is not so democratic, but it's the law, it's the false, it's the wrong law, it's the law. Now, when we measure Turkey to this measure, all the rules of law mean that public order is important. Public order is the government's primary duty. Public order is a system where a citizen uses power to maintain life and property security and judges those who violate public order with the power he uses in the eyes of justice. We've all heard the statement from Mr. Prime Minister about public order in the past weeks, we can't maintain public order, we're asking PKK extensions, do not disrupt public order or provide it. We also know that there are negotiations within the negotiating framework for the PKK to maintain public order. If that's true, it's a serious situation. My dear friends, a country that is now in place of a terrorist organization that divides, disrupts, disrupts public order has nothing to do with the state of law or the state of law. This is a state that is now falling apart, a state that does not function in rules, institutions, or organs. It doesn't work. The PKK's mothers should not cry. The people are deceived by the innocent saying that they started in Oslo, saying that the PKK has deceived us in order to express themselves. Some say that it has come down from the mountain and settled in the city, and it is clear that it has settled in the village, and the PKK militants are armed during the night, and it is clear that they are armed during the day. He threatens with a gun at night, rules with a day cone. The sentence is: he collects tribute to the PKK under the name of tax. Everyone knows that, the Prime Minister has agreed. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is recruiting militants to the terrorist organization under the name of soldiers. Everybody knows that, too. He controls public order, which means keeping the safety of lives and goods, which means controlling public order; he asks his judge, prosecutor, police, military, cuts off the road, blocking between the two provinces of the Republic of Turkey for 22 days. I thought the Constitution had freedom of travel, and the government was responsible for providing it. Fourth, the court is setting up. I'm not saying it, but I've been saying it for two years, and the Prime Minister said it last week. My dear friends, what is the name of the organization that takes taxes, recruits troops, conducts security checks to maintain public order and builds a court? For those of you who don't know, it's the government. The PKK, which you are currently in charge of as a negotiation, is using the state power of the terrorist organization. Is there a rule of law in a country like this, or a rule of law in a country like this? It can't be done anyway. Then the course towards one man's administration has made Turkey this way, and in the near future, there will be no worse consequences, but unfortunately, we will all see it together. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0162par0174	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 14th draft of the Istanbul Research Centre Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows. Article 2 of the Article 2. We offer and propose the addition of the "can't testify" clause to his joke. Turgut Dibek and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0163par0181	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0162par0182	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0164par0183	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0162par0184	Mr. Flagtutan, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0165par0186	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share with you a statement from the administration court that I have just expressed in the decision to stop the execution. They've established the basic reason for this, the basis of the expert report, for their own reasons. ▪ A basic choice must be made here. Either the municipality of Artvin is to be abandoned from part of its settlement and its designated areas of quality protection, and there should be mining in 4,406 hectares or there should be no mining allowed within that area. There is an expert's report. Now, valued lawmakers, I'm speaking to lawmakers from the ruling party, look: On March 27, 2002, the Turkish Grand National Assembly session, our fellow minister, Faruk Çelik, who currently serves in the Cabinet, gives a speech like this, Mr. Minister, is not here, and I'd appreciate it if you could deliver it. With the basis for this court ruling, I share here the speech that Mr. Minister made when he was an opposition MP before he was in power. You don't have to be here to defend Artvin. It can be defended on this side, so when you're here, it looks different from here, Artvin. Mr. Secretary says that in Artvin County, a 60 percent sloped, landslide region, this mining work will increase the landslide even more. There is a good chance that the results of the removal of the province of Artvin will come to light. The minister is speaking here. The MPs are continuing: The government should present policies to improve Artvin's province, not to destroy Artvin's province. Therefore, he must listen to the local people and to the voice of the local people. Locals see the future of Artvin, the future of education; the completion of the study of education and forest schools; the aim of opening an institute in each district; and the development of agricultural products. The most interesting thing is that lawmakers say that a non-ethological investment should be known from all of us that it is no longer an economic reality. I'm celebrating Faruk Çelik, and I've called him from here, and I've had this conversation before, Mr. Minister, are you behind this conversation? Mr. Secretary said, "Yes, I'm behind him, I'm signing under him." It's important for me to celebrate a fellow Artvin from here. I speak to other ministers of the Cabinet, to the Minister of Energy: the tender stands here. Dear friends, think of a tender, one can enter that tender. I've filed a criminal complaint with the D.A.'s office here, no matter what, and I no longer believe in law as a lawyer. We're begging the Minister of the Forest to stop this execution. No, we need to get started on the tree cut as soon as possible. He says there's a painting like this. My dear friends, no one can stand before the power of the people. The people are more than just the law. I mean, it's not important to change the law in this country, it's important to change heads. Look, Murgul had an attempt at a cyanide pool related to this mine, and a whole Murgul people stood up and did the procedure -- Genghis Group, who had a special relationship with the nation -- they took that decision back. That means there's no power standing in front of the public. Now, in this direction, in a painting where a minister of yours came from this council stand -- not much before power -- about 12 years ago -- in which he cried out that mining a mine like this was murder -- no, today everything is normal, we can mine here. Can you say, my dear friends? Look, the people who come to Artvin, the people who see it, know it, a city with 60, 70 percent slopes, my precious friends. All our watering resources are over the city, our trees are there, our habitats are coming down from there. You say: "Sir, nothing will happen, let us destroy this city." No, friends, we will not allow it. No matter what the cost, no matter what the Artvins cost, we will not stand by and watch this attempt, this murder. In that sense, the decision that was made this evening -- today -- was very coincidental -- I was going to talk about something else, but this decision that the administration court had made, as I've just expressed -- is being celebrated on the streets of Artvin, in a holiday weather on the streets of Artvin. I believe that this decision to stop the execution is a decision at some point, but the final decision will follow. I believe, despite all this gloomy painting in our country, as I've just said, this court's decision is a relief, a very important milestone in the Artvin people's struggle. I believe that beyond this judgment, the fact that everyone must abide by the decisions of the court, the fact that one day everyone needs a trial and judges. Now, the owners of the mining company are probably wondering, what did we do wrong? I wonder where the problem was. From here, I'm speaking to the real senior partner, who knows who he is: please stop doing this. Look, in this country, it's not all about money. Where will you take him to the other side? We know who your big brother and partner really are. We'll explain that when the time and place comes. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0198	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 15 that I read and process. It's the 15th annual draft of the current 640 rows. Article (1). We propose that the joke (b) be removed from the text of the substance; (c) be replaced with the terms of the donation (e.g. with the incomes) and (e.g.), and that the other bench be identified accordingly. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Yusuf Halaçoğlu Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Turgut Dibek Osman Look at your love Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0167par0211	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0212	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0168par0213	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0169par0214	Motive...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0215	I'm reading the reason: The center's income pens are redesigned. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The commission has a request for a reduction.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0170par0220	Mr. President, with the motion accepted, the subsection of the (1)th joke (b) is removed from the text of the item. As a necessary result of the diagnosis, the law-making technique (2) has to be changed to (c) bendi bendi bendi bendi bendi (b) in the third joke. We're declaring this in order for it to go into the transcripts under the powers of editing.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0221	All right. Now, the subject that was redacted, plus, in the agreed motion framework, I submit to your vote: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in Article 16 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, number 640. We propose and propose that the article be added to the Article "The Law of International Investigation No.4686 and the 11th Section of the Court of Law 6100," which will come after the declaration of the Law of Associations. Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Attila Kart Omar Suha Aldan Free Special Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th Amendment. We propose and propose the addition of Article 1212,2011 and Law of Law 6100 to come after the word "in the circumstances" in (1). Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 16 of the current law bill 640 rows be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Erol Dora İdris Bauken Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0171par0245	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0246	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0172par0247	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0248	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to prevent the problems the Istanbul Research Centre will create in the judicial mechanism. In addition, the text of the article states that "in cases where there is no law in which there is no law... with the civil law... "The Law of Associations" has not been referred to as the First-degree Law and the International Law of Law on First-degree Law when the provisions will be enforced. Therefore, this judgment must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th Amendment. We propose and propose the addition of Article 1212,2011 and Law of Law 6100 to come after the word "in the circumstances" in (1). Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0173par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0258	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0174par0259	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0166par0260	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0175par0261	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, this is one of the most important items of this bill. ▪ What will be done when there is no rule of law? It's a law of inquiry. In Turkish law, the investigation is a code-designed area in both international law and national law. Therefore, the rule that will be enforced if this law is not passed: If there is a situation related to foreign law, the International Law shall be enforced, and if there is a law related to national law, then the Law of Law shall be enforced. That's quite all right, that's all right. But what is written in this bill? Don't laugh, the lawyers will laugh. The Law on Civil Law and Associations will be enforced. This is really funny because referring to the Law of Associations after the Law of Civil Law is a complete ignorance of the law. Because there are provisions concerning associations in the Civil Law, the provisions concerning associations refer to the Associations' Law. Then, after the Civil Law, referring to the Associations' Law means just bringing the work to the mouthwash, and look, we referenced it. Now, when we asked them, they gave this reason: "Sir, this is not an organ to judge. What is it? This is an association. If this is a association, why are you building it as a center? Like the Canary Lovers' Association, say, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, No, this isn't a community of witnesses. At the same time, this is a court that will be contested against the decisions of those who have ruled on international investigation, so it will serve as a judicial duty. This also establishes the national court of inquiry as the objector of decisions on national arbitration. Therefore, within this law are the procedures for applying to those arbitration centers, there are times for applying, there are provisions for notification, and there are provisions for the determination of the court of inquiry to make. So the answer to this question, is it a bird, is it a camel? This, my dear friends, is not an association. This is a centre that can make a judgment, which is their organs and their activities. It's a center that determines the procedures and foundations of the inquiry. Depends on what? Is that what you want? The dream he had in the evening? The procedures of the investigation are specific. The New York Convention is set. In accordance with this, there are laws adopted at the universal value of a number of centres on international arbitration; there are rules laid out by London, Paris, Hong Kong arbitration centres. In order to go to these things, you have to say to this clause: The Law on International Laws and Laws is enforced in cases where there is no government. Of course, what does that entail? This requires respect for the law. This requires the acceptance of the rule of law. This requires acceptance of the condition that the Istanbul arbitration centre, which will be built, is truly independent, really neutral. Whereas you have no such intention. I make it very clear that you bring a bill like this to rob people in the state's state budget, which, in this way, is by means of a national and inter-national investigation, which, according to the rule of concessions, conditioning, and agreements, has laid hands on the state's budget.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0176par0267	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 16th draft of the Istanbul Central Court of Investigation Act, which is currently in session, number 640. We propose and propose the addition of Article 44686 of the International Law on Laws of Laws and Article 6100 of the 11th Section of Investigation to come after the declaration of "The Law of Associations." Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Is the commission in?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0177par0274	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0176par0275	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0178par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0176par0277	Congressman of Manisa, Mr. Free Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0179par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. We're discussing international investigation. Where does the need come from? International arbitration is an application that multinational or international companies impose on Turkey as well as on Turkey to come and invest in Turkey, to maintain its existence, to make new investments, as in the entire world. This, of course, is not special to these days, but a practice that has been a nuisance to us since the Ottomans and the international capital has always wanted and desired. Today, the government brought in additional arrangements for him, which we're working on here. Why? They cannot entrust their money to Turkey's law, to our national judiciary, so they want additional assurances. Well, can we say that our law protects everyone's rights in Turkey? Do we trust the law? In this regard, recently an elderly uncle stood before the governor of Manisa - the deputy governor of Manisa - in the village of Yırca in Soma district of Manisa. He said with tears: "O my son, you have called the army, you have asked for taxes. If I bet three days late, you'll cut the electricity. If you're not going to stand behind me today, when are you going to show that you're the government? If we can't trust the governor, if we can't trust the court, if we can't trust the gendarme, who can we trust? How will he show the state state? Unfortunately, in Turkey, all institutions, especially the balance between institutions and forces, the principle of separation has been eliminated so much that no one will feel safe anymore, and unfortunately that includes the justice system. So, where's this degeneration? I'll be able to tell you about the Governor of Manisa, the Governor of Soma, the commander of the gendarmes, but the sunbare, the sandals, the shoes are squeezing. It's coming from the top of the state, the man who now sits at the top of the state. What he said was that when the court halted the construction of the illegal palace, which he called the presidential palace, which he later called another name and identified with his party, let them come and destroy it, if they can afford it. They stopped the execution, they won't be able to stop this building, I'll open it, I'll go in and sit in it. Now, who's going to listen to this if the person who was the head of the government, who is now the most powerful, the highest person in the state, says that after that, the poor villagers will be decided to stop the trial they've filed to protect their olives in a hurry? The real problem is the chaos and the fact that people feel alone is the attitude of the top of the state. One day Manisa's village of Yırca, where there were eighty-five years of olive trees, and... you know, we always say that tobacco ran out, the grapes ran out, the vines ran out, so our peasants were condemned to the mines as cheap workers. There are villagers holding on to their olives. 6,000 olive trees, 80 shareholders, but 23 real farm farmers, if they don't get their bread out of olives, olive oil, they'll go into that mine and they'll be doomed to die, trying to hold on to life. One day, they found out that on May 10, 2014, our government rushed to publicize. The uncles are saying: "What is it to me that this rush of publicization?" We have to say: "In situations where national security, the interests of the state are being threatened at the highest levels of... So the enemy army is coming across, and uncle says: I can't stick it in my tapulu plot. This is my tomato field. You can't dig in here. Uncle, take your money, move aside. Is that what this is? No. Kolin's going somewhere, and he's got a flexible contract to do anywhere, but he says, "I'm going to do this place right next to the other thermal plant because he wants to advance an advantage in privatisation of the place, and now he's going to say: I want to cut down 6,000 olives here. In exchange, the villagers are suing. It needs to be seen quickly, and with the law passed last year, the EPDK will be given a deadline of fifteen days. The EPDK is making the defense, the court is in session, the decision-writing phase. Like that Marquez Monday, we all knew there was going to be a murder that night, and I told Mr. Arinc in the Plan and Budget that night, there's a report, and something's going to happen tonight, so stop it. He said, "I don't have your information." Fifteen minutes after he said that, the commander of the gendarme guaranteed that nothing would happen. They slaughtered 6,000 olives two hours later. So these multinational corporations are right not to trust our judgment, and I offer it to your appreciation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0180par0288	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are three motions in the interim article 1. I read them in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first year's declaration of 640 rows be changed in the form of the first two years, which is included in the fourth joke of the İstanbul Research Central Law. Mustafa Elitaş Mihrimah Belma Line Metin Ashunk Muhammad Bilal Macit Hamza Mountain Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the temporary 1st Amendment. The article is: The statement following the word "United" in the 1- (1) joke "will be formed from three-member members assigned by the Turkish Bar Association and will be run by the Interim Commission, which will be chaired by the senior member." To be changed in shape, The "Turkey Chambers and Stock Exchange Union" mentioned in the 2 - (2) joke was to be changed to "Temporary Commission," We propose and propose that the 3 (4) joke be changed "the expenses required until the first meeting of the General Assembly to carry out the operations of the centre will then be met by the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Association of Turkish Bars." Faruk Bal Lütfü Türkkan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Emin Çınar Ahmet Duran Bulut D. Ali Torlak Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Interim Article 1 of the Istanbul Research Centre Act, which is currently in session, 640 rows, is 4 of Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the article text. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Ali Riza Özturk Jesus Gök Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0181par0316	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0180par0317	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0182par0318	We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0180par0319	Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0183par0321	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, have often issued laws based on the majority of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which are not really important to the Turkish nation whether it responds to its needs, but rather their daily interests are active in making laws. One package comes in, half of that package falls out, and the rest of the package is taken out three or four months later by the people who brought it back. Now we all know that's the way things are in the judiciary. The Justice and Development Party, which claims to be against custody and coups on every occasion, is forced by the pressure of carrying out the motion they have rejected in the commissions, they have to re-accept it in the way they have applied it, so that's what they understand about the national will. Now, dear lawmakers, I was born five days after my father's death. I mean, it was the first hand-break of tobacco. It's my birthday, and my birth certificate says November 20th, and people are celebrating. But when I asked my mother, she said, "You were born in a first-hand twist of the lips, my son." Tobacco doesn't break in November, it breaks in June. Then I asked my uncle, like, "Your father died on June 17th, and you were born five days later." What I want to say from here is that I know what it's like to be an orphan, so I know what it's like to grow up without a father's love. There were eight funerals in Ermenek yesterday. We witnessed the pain of mothers there. I saw the woman who said, "My son can't swim." But I also saw the children who were orphaned there. We also found out that those miners haven't been paid in four months. We saw those people were hungry. Up until now, I've seen people waiting for the time and time of prayer, so people would go to the mosque and wait for the oppressor to be read, and wait for the prayer, but I've never seen the oppressor and the prayer waiting for the people. Again, to this day, I have accepted that politicians have left the prayer behind in accordance with their own demands, but the coffins of eight mining martyrs were lined up on the table yesterday; I, Vice President Jacob Akkaya, our party council member and former minister Fikret Celeb, are there -- representing CHP -- there are a lot of congregations waiting -- a man in black suits, wearing glasses -- and I say, "What if I say, after these deaths, the state is doing funeral work?" Now, the president will come, the president will come. I thought the mayor would come. At that time, our Vice President asked: "What president will come?" The President of Religious Affairs. So I intervened: doesn't the President of the Religious Affairs know what time the noon prayer is being read, doesn't he know what time the noon prayer is being held, so many men wait here? In that case, the proper funeral prayer... is coming from Ankara. I said, what do you do? I'm a mufti. I've come from Ankara. He said. I've come from Ankara, so I said they should've been up an hour early. The minute Minister Dianet entered the location, it was fifteen minutes past twelve, and half an hour after. As soon as they entered, Allahu Akbar... his voice rose, and the prayer began to be recited. My dear friends, I've been told that a President of the Religious Affairs himself will be there...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0184par0327	Don't you pray at noon?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0183par0328	Let go, let go! Don't you teach me to be religious. Let go of me! You've got to be ashamed, you've got to be ashamed... You don't know, you're talking. You keep so many people waiting there and the President of Religious Affairs is doing it. It's rude, it's disrespectful. It's disrespectful to the congregation and it's disrespectful to religion. And you can't teach me religion. Know your place! That's how religious you are. You'll be there to watch over the president of the Religious Affairs who's got half an hour of noon prayer and afternoon prayer waiting. Shame on you! That's not gonna happen, guys. That's not gonna happen. The president of the religious affairs will not be able to delay the prayer at noon, nor will he be able to cause the people to suffer.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0185par0330	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0183par0331	I grew up in those religious schools, don't worry about it. What I do know is that if funerals aren't brought to the ground immediately, it's punishment for them, it's punishment for their families. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0186par0335	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the temporary 1st Amendment. The article is: The statement following the word "United" in the 1- (1) joke "will be formed from three-member members assigned by the Turkish Bar Association and will be run by the Interim Commission, which will be chaired by the senior member." changed to form, The "Turkey Chambers and Stock Exchange Union" mentioned in the 2 - (2) joke was to be changed to "Temporary Commission," We propose and propose that the 3 (4) joke be changed "the expenses required until the first meeting of the General Assembly to carry out the operations of the centre will then be met by the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Association of Turkish Bars." Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0187par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0186par0346	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0188par0347	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0186par0348	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0189par0350	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're discussing the final clause, and this is the last time I'm going to appear before you. In case you'll notice, I'd like to start by telling you a story about a Erzurum story by condemning the position of the President of Religious Affairs and his mufti, who has been tasked with protecting, implementing, maintaining, and adopting all of our spiritual values. Anyway, when you say "law," you get it, so let's talk about it in different areas, talk about it. As two Erzurumians chatted, one of them said: "Yahu, what will happen to Erzurum? Look, it's a mess again. The man across the street said, "Yahu, does the country have a territory, brother?" Tomorrow there will be snow and a storm. Now, of course, there is no law left because there is no respect for the law. That's what the last clause of this law is about. There are two institutions; one is the Bar Association, one is the TOBBB. The Bar Association's all poop, the tobbb hand, on top of the head. The Istanbul arbitration centre is also under the control of the TOBB, as the hand is above its head. He'll get the applications, he'll do the organizational procedures, he'll do his first work, he'll run the elections. Well, there is already a Board of Investigation within the TOBB. Of course, if the Minister looks at the books instead of the Minister of Justice, the official of the TOBBB says: "Our Board of Investigations does not work." I mean, the Board of Investigations of the TOBB is not working. If the Board of Investigation isn't working, then there's a lack of confidence in that board, so he's not working for it. Why is the institution of Istanbul's arbitration centre, which is fixed with the statement of the authority of the TOBB (insecurities), given all the bodies of the Bar Association, instead of all the bodies of the Bar Association, given the authority to elect a member of the general council from the head of the bar? Doesn't that remind you of something, dear lawmakers? Check your memory, this will remind you of a very painful event. This jargon is the jargon of the 2010 Constitutional Amendment. In 2010, while changing the Constitution, you decided that the election made by the Bar Association, not by the Bar Association, but by the majority of the bar presidents, was chosen for an important body of the Supreme Judiciary, which was based on the AKP's work. My dear friends, this is not the right course of action. Erzurum is not the owner of this land, but we all own it. Erzurum may have been worried about snow or rain, but he says that we should all be uncomfortable with this country going into an unfair, unlawful, unjust, unjust, unconscionable process, and I'm not saying that you're going to give the motion a vote because you're going to vote against it anyway. I bid you all good night.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0190par0358	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "first year" of the 640 rows of the "Istabulary Central Charter" shall be changed into "first two years" in the fourth joke of "Temporary Matter." Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0191par0365	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0190par0366	Government?
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0192par0367	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0190par0368	Read the reason. The agency budget will be met by the Prime Minister's Office so that the Research Centre can complete its establishment and start operating. The centre's competitiveness with other international arbitration institutions has been intended to increase budget support for two years, envisioned as a year for its ability to have revenues to cover its costs. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the interim clause 1: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 17 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 18 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, to show the color of the game on the bill, Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu... Here you go.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0193par0378	Yes, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, may the law be blessed above all else. I hope you won't attempt to replace it, in any way, due to any discrepancy or impropriety. But as far as I'm concerned, there's gonna be a set of laws about that, again, that suggest changes. If it comes to the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey due to the election period, we will see these laws within that time before we go to the election. Now, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary and the other dear friends for meeting our recommendations on both matters. Our proposals on Article 11 and Article 15... in my speech here yesterday, I said that there should be no donations in any way in the interests of the board of inquiry, because if you received a donation, you would not be able to make much action against that person when you sat down at the table. As a matter of fact, I think it's an important step that he's been altered. Again, I think it's within the framework of the 11th article to elect people who have a certain experience, who have a certain experience instead of people who have a certain experience, but I still have reservations here. In six months' time from the election of the board of directors, which includes the procedure and the basis for the functioning of the central body, the regulations of the first article (3) are prepared and implemented by the centre within six months of the selection of the board of directors. Although he has stated on the basis of a specific directive or regulation, I think it will still be a problem, since it is not clearly written, as to what rules the centre will be governed under. Because if you think about a number of laws, they're going to be in a position to decide above the law, so they're going to have problems. As a matter of fact, I'll give you an example: Now, upon a complaint about the finances, a dispute with the historical institution had come to light, that the historical institution had not paid taxes, so institutions should pay taxes. We tried to reach a compromise, so there was an offer, and when I arrived, he said that the assistant secretary, who said that, well, teacher, okay, you're a public organization. Therefore, pay the corporate tax in 10 per cent. Now, you know 25 per cent of the law, so will it be possible for him to reduce the tax to 10 per cent? Can you take down the law, no matter who it is? You can't. It is certain that such a compromise will not happen, and I have told him that if you can get it down to 10 percent, then remove it all. In the end, it ended in conflict, but the trading court ruled in our favor. Now, it's not clear whether or not we can go to court here, but either way, it has to be based on law, until other things, if necessary, the decision they make is certain. Even if it is said, the way of the people is clear. But guys, really look at this, I'm going to tell you about this item right here: Now, somehow, the advisory board is being formed. Now, there's really no need for counseling. You know why you don't need it? For that reason, 15 people will be taken to the advisory board. What, of the 15 people taken to the advisory board, the matter of the investigation, if it is out of the expertise of 15 people, will it do? He's going out, isn't he? He'll get an outside report. Well, then why are you paying these 15 people? Instead, even if you didn't create the advisory board in this way, if you had put a substance there, you would have said: "He can ask for expertise from outside. "
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0194par0383	In terms of publicity, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0193par0384	It's not publicity, it's the advisory board. It's the counseling board, but...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0194par0385	One of the tasks of that body is to introduce the Istanbul arbitration centre.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0193par0386	No, it's clearly written here: the board of directors responds to the counsel board's opinion when it is necessary. Then he says, "It comes once a year, following the call of the governing body. " It's not about publicity, bro, so don't, for God's sake. No, it's out of the question. You're creating a board that's unnecessary. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0195par0389	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Omar Süha Aldan is here to show you the color of the game on the bill.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0196par0392	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge against the State of Istanbul Research Act, and I salute you. I'm gonna start talking about two examples. One is: A few years ago, when we went to Italy with our fellow lawmakers to study mediation, we asked the Italian Minister of Justice: "Why did you need a mediator?" He asked for global companies. He said. Besides, I've been told a story recently. A Turkish company received an important tender in Pakistan. In the terms of the tender, there is a decree that people in that area, in that tribe, will probably work on construction. That's what our contractor agreed to. As soon as the head of the tribe began to work, he called in Pakistan, saying: "How many people will you take, how many people will you train from my tribe?" And it's a dead end, it's an investigation, and the inquiry has made a decision. In fact, the basis of the inquiry is that there are two types of countryless people in the world: one of them is poor people, hopers, people drowning in the sea, people looking for a country, housing, people looking for a door of bread; a second group of people are international companies. Unfortunately, we're moving rapidly from national judiciary to a world aimed at the judgment of corporations. Global capital imposes its own conditions to get to countries, and countries like us have to submit to them. Is that all it takes? Instead of dealing with their problems in the national judiciary, people in Turkey are willing to settle their problems with the people they are committed to because they do not want their problems to be known by society. One way or another, as a result of global imposition, we've had a trend since a few years ago, especially since the European Union process. Despite the fact that we have Black Europe law, even though all of our understanding has improved on it, we're trying to impose Turkish law on institutions such as Anglo-Saxon law, reconciliation, mediation, arbitration, arbitration just to make it a thing of fashion, and it's not doing anything. Establishing an inspection centre in Turkey has symbolic meaning, which will mean nothing as an event. If you say why? An inquiry is formed in Article 6 of the general board, almost all of which weigh the weight of government bureaucrats. In a sense, there is the weight of institutions that might be under the influence of the government. How will global capital believe such a structure? Besides, it's also a reflection of the political one-sided perspective of keeping the Board of Bars apart while the administrations of all institutions appoint people to be elected to the general council. Another objection came at the last minute with a motion. The source of this centre's budget would be provided by the Prime Minister for a year, which unfortunately reached two years with a last-minute motion. That means that the Prime Minister's office is going to hold on to it for two years. My dear friends, we can tell you that after a while, this establishment is not going to be knocked on. It's not the fashion business that matters. Notice that Germany does not have an inspection centre. Germany has a stockpile of capital, confidence, confidence in its national judgment, faith that it has true judicial independence, self-confidence. Unreliable countries, countries that have to beg for money from outside, go after such adventures. Besides, this inquiry center will only do one thing. Those who belong to the pool may be able to resolve their problems without knowing it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0197par0402	Thank you. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. In the fourth place, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and Isparta MP Recep Special and 52 MPs; Judges and Prosecutors' Law and Adjudications of Laws and Laws under the Law of Laws and Laws; Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan; 1512 Notary Law 59. The Law Proposal for the Resolving of Laws Against Diseases of Noters in Articles, İstanbul MP Aydın Aghaydın; Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors 2802; Justice and Development Party Chairs Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahrimarash MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı; 33 MPs to be held under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors' Law, and Law Orders of Laws and Laws and Laws. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the 5th Criminal Execution Institutions Security Services Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 6th place, in line with the World Postal Union Foundation Act, in accordance with the 7th Amendment. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Commission for Information and Technology and Foreign Affairs Reports, as well as by the Constitutional Charter on the Development of Trade, Investments and Co-operation between the Swedish Kingdom Government and Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of Military Training, Technical and Scientific Business Association Agreement between the Swedish Kingdom Government. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th place, confirming the Security and Health Convention on Construction Number 167. The Commission and the Government are here. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 649 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 167 SUMMER PRODUCTION OF SECURITY AND CONTINUATION IN CONTINUES MADDE 1. ▪ The approval of the Security and Health Convention on Construction Number 167, adopted at the 75th International Study Conference of the International Labour Organization in 1988, has been approved. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2. - (1) This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3. - (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0198par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0197par0444	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0198par0445	Mr. President, we have a question.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0197par0446	Well, we agreed... that Mr. Tanal wanted to ask questions, and neither did I. So now that it's been accepted, the order of operations is over. I didn't see it. I'm sorry. I apologize to you today, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0198par0447	Sir, I apologize to you too.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0197par0448	I mean, no, it really did. Whatever.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0199par0449	He went in to vote, Mr. President, used it to vote.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit05spe0197par0450	Please don't interfere. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who agree... those who refuse. : Sustained. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Under open vote on the adoption of the Security and Health Convention on Construction Number 167: The bill has been adopted and legalized. Now I'll give you five minutes for the sound system malfunction.
tbmm-2014-11-20sit06spe0197par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and put to your votes: At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday 20/11/2014, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peoples' Democratic Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly was advised not to meet on Friday (November 21st 2014). Anybody want a word on the counseling board proposal? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (November 25th 2014) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Happy holidays.
