tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There are enough meetings, we'll start negotiations. Before we begin the negotiations, on behalf of myself and the Court, the 169th anniversary of our Turkish police force, we wish our martyrs a blessing. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Mehmet Erdogan, a member of parliament who wants to speak on behalf of the 169th anniversary of the Security Agency. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0002par0019	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to April 10th Police Day. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I'm celebrating Police Day for all of our police officers. I wish them all health, happiness, success and ease in their work. I remember with mercy and gratitude all of our officers, all of our police officers, who were martyrs in their service, and all of them I ask of God's mercy. I wish our veterans health and many happy years. Today is the 169th anniversary of the establishment of our police force. For 169 years, the police have been doing a very successful and selfless job for the peace of our nation day and night, but our police officers, who have been so devoted, have real problems. I'd like to address these problems basically under two topics. First of all, a cop is a human being first. As we evaluate the police today, both our ruling citizens and citizens forget that the police are human beings. Police are not foreign substances, they are members of this community, and they are human beings outside their professions. They have families, children, friends. That's why when we evaluate our police, we need to evaluate them in their mercy, thinking of their human qualities. Again, the police should not forget that when they make transfers, promotions, awards, punishments, police are human beings, and those who love them will be affected by the treatment. In this instance, it is also important to address and resolve the problems our police will face because of this appointment, and how the second sing assignment will affect our police, their children, and their family arrangements. Again, it's important to be careful that the song transfers don't cause a new discrimination. If there are police shortages in certain areas, it should not be forgotten that this will benefit from economic incentives and voluntary resolving of the second song without being assigned. The working conditions in the police force should also be reorganised, assuming that the police are human. In this metaphor, the Police Disciplinary Charter must be reconsidered, it is imperative that the safety mobbing practices be terminated, and the extra hours are bound to a rule. The second important problem of our law enforcement is the matter of self-absorption. In this regard, government officials make constant commitments during election times and April 10th ceremonies, but they do not keep their promises. New regulations have been made in the rights of public servants by the Court of Law No. 666. However, Article 666 and the Police Department are separate within themselves. The additional payments paid to the police have been made to vary according to the branch in which he was working. This is extremely wrong. This practice has victimised half the police force, especially police officers serving at the police station. First of all, each of our officers serving with the love of the nation must be made the same as their additional payments. As it is known, all of our police officers' most basic problems are to be paid as compensation, not as a base salary. Since a significant portion of the salaries are paid as compensation, our police pensions are very low. As a result, our underprivileged police officers, who work under difficult circumstances, are unable to retire even though they deserve retirement. This must be resolved quickly. Resolving the issue of additional indicators that our police have always expressed (3600) is the most important hope of our police's autonomy rights. These righteous demands of our officers must be met quickly. One of the issues facing our police today is that our government and our Security General Directorate must certainly consider a report issued by the Public Control Agency on the basis of a complaint made on the grounds of travel events. The issues in this report must be evaluated by the Police Department and the Interior Ministry and resolved by the police. I hereby celebrate again the Police Day of all our police officers, and salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. The second non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal (Security) who has asked for a comment on local elections in Üsküdar district of İstanbul. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0004par0035	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I wish God's mercy to those who are dead because of the 169th anniversary of the Police Organization, but I wish our fellow workers success, but I wish them a new era in Turkey where the police don't spray water and pepper spray with the TOMA. Of course, the problems with the election at Üsküdar... what is the choice? Democracy is essential, but other conditions must be united. In the election, what every citizen wants is a clean moral right to join the administration. The pure moral intent is that we, the Republican People's Party, have returned the vote to whichever of our citizens voted in the election, whichever political party directed the will of a citizen, whichever one of them voted in our house, and whichever one of them directed the will of a citizen. So, in accordance with this morality, we want all of our citizens who voted for the Republican People's Party in Skopjedar to be transferred to other political parties, written, recorded as a plus to their households. Otherwise, we call it political immorality.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0005par0037	What do we do with Eagle?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0004par0038	And in this respect, the district election board is usually elected mayor of the municipal staff election board.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0005par0039	What are we going to do about the mayor of the district with the badge in Maltepe?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0004par0040	Two: Officers in the bank, who generally favour political power, have been elected president of the polling board.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0005par0041	What are we going to do about the district election managers who are the managers of the Ataşehir, Maltepe, Bigheadmece, CHP? The ones in the eagle, the ones in Maltepe!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0004par0042	Three: Seals are usually attached in Skopjedar, behind the ballots -- behind the seal -- to the back of the AKP emblem. What does that mean? That's marking. What's this? That's manipulation. What's this? It's a trick.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0005par0043	You certainly did what you said in Eagle.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0004par0044	At the same time, the ballots and envelopes available regarding the election in Skopjedar have been sealed before the polls formed. What is this? As you can appreciate, the shift starts at eight o'clock, but before the delegation does, so what is sealing the envelopes, sealing the compasses? It's a selection process. In order for the selection process to take place, there will be a delegation. Two: to be sworn in. The sealing of the election without the commission being formed, without the oath being made, is a complete violation of the law. What is being done in Üsküdar? That's what they do in Üsküdar.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0005par0045	Just like in Maltepe, just like in Eagle.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. Ash, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0007par0047	Mr. Metin, take your word for it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0008par0048	The sealing of election ballots and envelopes without being sworn in as a result is completely illegal. Another full state of lawlessness, valued lawmakers, my dear President; the election is being held in Üsküdar. The municipal parliamentary ballots in Umraniye are being used in Skopüdar. This is one of the most shady, tricky procedures since the birth of the republic. (Applause from CHP rows) In this questionable election, the result was realized by a number of discreet citizens in some polls, but in all other polls, the same issue is the same doubt, the same shame, the same immorality. Shouldn't we ask the presidents of these polling boards, "What are the Umraniye City Council ballots delivered to these? He's being embezzled. So, why are they taking these? So that's what the polling board presidents received from the government in accordance with instructions from the government. I'll tell you this right now, for example, here is another procedure: Invalid envelope 3, invalid ballot 19, total invalid ballot 22. So even the envelope -- non-existent envelopes -- has been counted as invalid compasses. Another example is just an indication of how irregular it is and how rigged it is. The ballot shows an election at 30/4/2014. When was it done? It was built on March 30th. So the number of valid votes in Üsküdar is 342,000, the number of invalid votes is 15,912, the ratio of invalid votes to valid votes is 4.646, so the national will is not really reflected. The difference was 8,000 votes. If invalid votes are accounted for, the Republican People's Party will be in the front row and will have the presidency. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is an extortion. All political parties who act morally towards this corruption... must return the votes of citizens who do not vote for them. Thank you all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0009par0058	What do we do with Eagle? There are 13,400 differences in Eagle, there is a cancellation, you have the election at 4,300. What do we do with him? The cancellations are all for the AK PARTY. What are we gonna do?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0010par0059	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The third non-responsive statement is from Malatya MP Öznur Çukık, a member of the Malatya MP who wanted to talk about frost damage in Malatya on 29-31 March. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0011par0064	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I'm celebrating the April 10th Police Day of all our law enforcement officers due to the 169th anniversary of our police force. Once again, I cherish our martyrs. Mr. President, my esteemed lawmakers, I have taken a stand today off the agenda for the damage and damage to all our fruit and farmers, especially because of the frost damage caused by the negative weather conditions in Malatya province from 29, 30 and 31 March. I'd like to begin by offering my undying thanks to our nation, who has not given us their support on March 30th, especially our Malatya. Despite national and international conspiracies, our nation has shielded its hearts against these conspiracies with the spirit of a national struggle. The whole world has appreciated this success. Our nation has once again declared its trust in our Prime Minister and his staff. This election is based on faith, economic and trust, not ideology. Our nation voted for peace, peace, and, most importantly, stability. Our nation has embraced every conspiracy, conspiracy, and a solid politician with a backbone. Turkey has written an epic 45.5 per cent, Malatya 62 per cent. On the day of this epic, on March 30th, our Malatian apricot manufacturers suffered serious damage from the underwear.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0012par0067	God punished the farmer!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0011par0068	Malatia has many stars with its growing statesmen, with its artists, with its history, with its natural beauty, with its economy, with its contribution. One of these stars is the first to come to mind when it comes to the word "Malatia" (Malatia). We have about 8 million apricot trees in our Malatya province, and some 350,000 tons of apricots are produced from our trees and 110,000 tons of dried apricots. As my prime minister stated, our world's apricot capital, Malatya, meets about 70 per cent of the world's dry apricot production. Especially in March 2014, Malatya, Elazig, Niğde, Baskil, as well as our disaster makers will seriously affect Malatia and the country's economy. From the moment of the disaster, our MPs, our Metropolitan Mayor, our Mayor, our NGOs, our occupational organisations have been very closely followed. We immediately cancelled our Minister of Agriculture's programs and invited him to Malatya, and together with our Minister, we had him examine the damage that happened to our apricot trees in his place.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0013par0071	It's money. Don't let him lecture us, ask for money.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0011par0072	Preliminary damage detection has been completed by our minister's instructions, and on 5, 6, 7 April 2014, regional preliminary damage assessment has been conducted throughout our province, and in this preliminary damage detection study, serious damage has been done to the proportions of walnuts, apples, cherries, cherries, pomegranates, 90-95 per cent, 100 per cent. The damage assessment will be a preliminary damage detection study, and a definitive damage assessment will be done by the end of May. And as it happens, our Minister Mehdi Eker has expressed to our Prime Minister on the Council of Ministers, and we are confident that he will not leave our Malatya and our farmer alone again, as they have never left alone in the problems we've passed on to our Prime Minister and Minister. And you all remember, in 2010, we paid our farmer 90 million to compensate them for the frost. The same damage occurred in 2012. At that time, we postponed our farmers' agricultural debt to farm loans and agricultural banks, and we provided 622 million support in ten years as Department of Agriculture. Now, in all the fruits raised in our Malatian province, especially in all the fruits raised in Malatya, we've had requests from Mr. Minister to compensate our farmer's victims, once again: we've asked Mr. Minister for interestless postponement of electricity debts used in agricultural or low-interest loans, based on the records of the CNS, agricultural loan co-operatives, our agriculture banks, and our clients' demand that our loans be delayed without interest, and that we are more likely to be granted interest-free or low-interested agricultural loans. At the point where this issue is resolved, we've also given our Prime Minister the information and asked for his support. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] After this natural disaster, I would like to say once again that we see it as a matter beyond politics, that we are making every effort and effort to repair the losses of our farmers, and I would like to say to my Malatian countrymen here, and I would like to thank all my friends who have their support.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0014par0078	Thank you. I'll give you my word on the 60th article. Mr. Oktay Vural.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0015par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, we sincerely wish the 169th anniversary of the Turkish police force to all law enforcement members and celebrate. The police force is one of the most important institutions of democracy, the legal state and our freedoms. It is unacceptable for this institution to be divided and directed in line with political purpose and goals. Unfortunately, those who belong to the Turkish police force today are not resolved, although there are issues of self-employment rights and working conditions within themselves. He's also under threat of exile, dismissal, suspension. There are 7,000, 8,000 police officers who are being driven out of the city. So I would like to take this opportunity to convey that this unrest within the police force could be a source of considerable security weakness. And the fact that the frost incident occurred in Malatya, especially in the apricots, must be taken into account, and those damages must be repaired. After the AKP disaster, this frost disaster really hit the apricot manufacturers. Hopefully, the government will take the necessary precautions. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0016par0087	Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0017par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we are celebrating the 169th anniversary of the Police Agency as the Republican People's Party Group. On the 169th anniversary, Turkey's nearly 250,000-strong staff and our organization, which is trying to provide security for our citizens, are among the greatest problems. Problems such as appointments, appointments, deportations, mainly rights of identity, remain on the agenda as the very main issues of the Security Service. The improvement of the working conditions of these staff under very difficult circumstances, the rights of the essence, must be a very basic duty of the government. Unfortunately, there has been a great deal of politics recently in the police force, which should work away from political concerns, political interference. We don't find this right as the Republican People's Party Group; this notion of discrimination, bias, has to end. In the 21st century, where concepts such as safety and freedom come forward, security is a part of freedom, and freedom is an integral part of security, but freedom can never be sacrificed for security. The government's understanding now is to sacrifice freedom for a sense of security. We don't think that's true. The freest societies in the world are also the safest societies. You shouldn't keep that out of sight. Finally, I would like to say that due to the frost disaster in Malatya, the government must seize this incident and compensate the manufacturer for its damage. I expect the government, who is not doing its duty in the nut business, to do its duty in the apricot business. After that, maybe the government will pay for the nut maker's 169 million-dollar freeze. I expect that of them. As for the Don disaster here, our Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, again our Istanbul MP, Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu, has fought a great deal. It's not enough that the ruling party is just talking here, but it's their job to get the ministers to take over and pay the manufacturer's losses immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0018par0093	Thank you. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0019par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTY Group, congratulate all the police on the 169th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish police force on the occasion of April 10th, and wish them success, health, and happiness. Once again, we remember those who lost their lives in the line of duty with mercy, gratitude, gratitude. We also praise and thank our veterans in the same way. And so far, of course, many of our police department's problems have been seriously eliminated and improved during the AK PARTY administrations. That doesn't mean, of course, that the problems have been completely resolved, removed, of course. There are still problems that need to be dealt with, and I hope they'll be dealt with. Now, we also say to our producers in the apricot business who suffered from the frost disaster in Malatya. Also, we wish you well, especially to the nut makers who have been exposed to the same frost disaster. Of course, there are these kinds of, unfortunately, negativitys from time to time. The important thing is that when these problems occur, these farmers, our producers, are compensated for their losses. From this point of view, in the past years, there has been a great deal of support from our governments, both to the apricot producers and to the nut makers. I just want to remind you that in 2007 and 2008, the supply surplus was transferred to the Nut Manufacturers' Office for Nuts to a $5.5 billion source in 2007. Again, in 2008, a total of three quadrillion liras were transferred in two years, in order to increase the falling price of nuts for the same reason and balance supply surplus. I'm just trying to set an example.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0021par0101	Mr. President, may I add another sentence, sir?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0022par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the change of climate conditions in the past few weeks, Malatya had a frost incident in our trees, not only in Malatya, but also in our Kahramanmarash, Elbistan, Afşin, Nurhak, Ekinözik, and Çağancerit. Our local people, whose livelihood is fruitism, have become many victims. I'd like to see these victims speed up their work at the point of immediate detection and repair by the relevant ministries. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0023par0107	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0024par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to convey my gratitude to our beloved nation, which has raised 2,300,000 votes by the National Movement Party in the 2011 elections, despite the tricky election, asymmetric politics. I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of National Education, especially by wishing for the end of the pressure on government officials. With legal changes made in the Ministry of National Education, the duties of national education directors and school principals in all Turkey are terminated. It's caused a great deal of dissatisfaction. In particular, office heads and branch managers have been victimized. Today, national education staff are anxious, anxious, and stressed. The rights of national education workers have been violated. National Education workers are subject to what can be called persecution. I'm warning the Ministry of National Education to respect the legal state, to respect the national education workers; thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0025par0114	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0026par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. While Minister Cevdet Yilmaz is here, I'd like to pass along a problem in Bingol. Mr. Secretary, the two bridges are under water due to a HES dam at Bingöl Yayladere. While the CED report is being filed, the company has promised to replace these two bridges with a new bridge. The CED report comes out, but then the company turns away, and with the government's support again, sir, there is no need to build a bridge. Now, it won't be possible to connect the villages on one side of this HES dam to the villages on the other side. And one of these bridges was built by the public with their own money. We ask you, please, take care of this and make sure these bridges are built. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0028par0124	Mr. President, for the past two days, especially because of the frost incident, the Malatian lawmakers say to the government here: "We are burned, our farmer is burned, our bread is destroyed." But if Mr. Minister of Agriculture has respect for the village, if he respects the manufacturer, if he has respect for those who don't have bread, he will answer here. Mr. Canikli, we don't want advice. We want the money for the damages. Don't lecture us. Let the Minister come here respectfully to answer what they're going to do to these people. Otherwise, we don't want advice.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0027par0127	Mr. Chosen...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0029par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating our police force on the 169th anniversary. I'd like to see our very important organization, especially the workers' problems with their rights, and the recent operations done by the government, end quickly. Now, especially this week, since Parliament opened, even though Turkey has actually had a particularly full frost disaster in the agricultural sector on all sides, it's like this is happening in a particular region, especially in Malatian lawmakers, I'm actually celebrating, they've only raised their attention to Malatya, and their apricots, but it's a problem on all four sides of Turkey. In the Black Sea, it's in the nuts, it's in the tea. My territory took place in the fruit trees in the Mediterranean region. On March 29th and 30th, significant damage occurred from the underwear. Just yesterday, there was a full damage to Mersin and the surrounding area, and the fruit trees were severely damaged. Of course, all my friends in the district know about it. As Mr. Aslanoglu said, where is the solution?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0030par0134	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0031par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the drought and the frost are not just Malatya's problems. In the Aegean region, and in the housemaid where I am a deputy, the frosted fruit trees have been damaged in the same way, and in recent years there have been serious damage due to drought. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture must make arrangements to assess the damage to the entire country and to help farmers. Other than that, Mr. President, the YGS questions haven't been released this year. Only 20% have been announced and others have not been disclosed. It creates such an impeal that in students and parents, who were sold these questions, who were given these questions, what kind of doubt is there under these questions, and why are they being missed from judicial control? My daughter's in the YGS. So I ask you: how dare you not explain these questions, and do you have the right to put such pressure on these children, and to whom do you pursue these questions? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0032par0141	Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0033par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Republican People's Party (CHP) President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu was attacked under this roof. Virtue requires that we celebrate such actions against politicians, and I strongly condemn this attack on Mr. Kilicdaroglu, in spite of the mankurts who applauded those who attacked Mr. Bekir Bozdağ. Violence is a crime of humanity. All religions and universal law are also condemned. The 4th article of the CMK 101 is to be reviewed. Unfortunately, the coup d'état in Egypt, by suspending the will of the people, has declared a total war on its people. The people they arrest are sentenced to death with false claims and evidence without giving them the right to defend themselves properly. Finally, 529 people were sentenced to death. The Egyptian government must quickly return from its error and not compromise democracy, human rights and history. The effort of the House is admirable. This week is Police Week and today is the 169th anniversary of the police force. The one who took his power from the nation and the law has always done his duty with sacrifice...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0034par0148	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0035par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Health Week. Everyone has a right to a healthy life. There are 1 million patients in Turkey who have been infected with muscular dystrophy and similar diseases, also known as. These patients are left to their fate. As with all other chronic diseases, there is no institution or institution to take care of these patients. There are individual initiatives in our country. Individually, there are people who believe in stem cells and try to support the treatment of these patients, who are barely seeking permission from the ethical boards. It is not possible for these people to receive any kind of money, but the physician is trying to find one of his own sponsors. The Ministry of Health has shown no effort or work to do so. We want the Department of Health to take care of these patients and help them. Especially families are in a lot of trouble.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0034par0152	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0036par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, prior to the March 30, 2014 local elections, talks were also reported to the media that some people may or may not be nominated in exchange for the forgiveness of public land and non-residents in some provinces, including my constituency district of TÜRGEV, where Mr. Prime Minister's son is also among the executives. I'm being investigated by the relevant Republican prosecutors and members of the Cabinet for these terrible and despicable allegations, and I'm sharing with the entire Supreme Assembly the idea that the public needs to be enlightened, and I'm giving my request to the public to make it necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0037par0157	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0038par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm celebrating the anniversary of the police force. This government has not fulfilled its promise to the police because it is the enemy of the workers. We'll give you 3600 side indicators over and over. They didn't give it to you even though they said so. Again, petty officers have made every reason to say that they are in a very difficult position and are not given the right. And on the highways, for example, they subcontractored 45 trillion liras in our 8th District. They subcontract 45 trillion liras without road maintenance or very little maintenance. It's not in the most primitive societies in the world that a flashback mind that spreads this much of the government's resources to its supporters and exploits the laborer, but it's a mindset that is dominated by the AKP's power. I also condemn their mentality, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0039par0162	Now, two groups of vice presidents are in the system, so I'll give you one minute of my word, and then I'm done. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0040par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just considered the frost disaster in Malatya's apricot to be related to the frost disaster in the nut in 2004. After ten years of recess, a frost disaster occurred again in 2014. The production of this disaster, no doubt, will occur as a result of the census, as a result of how much impact it has on the recluse. But the price of nuts is now up 70 percent. It would appear that, again, after ten years in the hazelnuts, there was a major frost disaster. To compensate for the loss of the nut maker, I call upon the government immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0041par0168	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0042par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. I just had some unfinished business. As for nuts, of course, there are more than 400,000 producers throughout Turkey and about 8 million people involved. Of course, the same support needs to be done to all of our farmers who suffer from the disaster of the frosting, and that's the law. So if we have an apricot manufacturer here or any other manufacturer who's been harmed by the frost disaster, of course should be treated the same way. Only if it is considered that there is about $650-700 million in support each year for the nut manufacturer, which concerns 8 million people, there will be 120-130-140 million in support, or payments that have been claimed not to have been paid before. So...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0043par0173	It's not an ear, it's a head.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0044par0174	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The meeting of the European Parliament on behalf of Civil Freedoms, Justice and Internal Affairs Committee and the Greek Parliament Public Administration, Public Order and Justice Committee on March 19, 2014 in Brussels, Belgium's capital city of Belgium, entitled "Sivil Freedoms, Volcana Bozır, President of the General Assembly of Turkey; 3-4 April 2014 in the framework of the presidency of the EU presidency, 3rd and 12th March 2014, the Joint Foreign and Security Policy of Parliament (ODGP) and the Conference of the Joint Security and Defence Policy (OGSP) for Foreign Affairs Committee (OGSP). It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As of 1992, we propose and investigate the fates of soldiers who were abducted by the PKK on several occasions by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and have been kidnapped in recent years, offering to open and investigate a Parliamentary investigation in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitutional Law, which should be taken in order to determine the measures that should be taken by which the PKK's military and public officials have been held for a very long period of time. [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] 5) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 6) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 10) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Hatay]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 16) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] 24) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] The results of soldiers abducted by the PKK in 1992 and in the following years in various police raids remain uncertain. In the 1990s, there were several reports to their families that the soldiers who were sent letters and messages to their families in various ways, who had entered the Week for a television news program, and who had been captured by a reporter and cameraman, were still held captive until the early 2000s. Although these soldiers were known to be at least eight, the court in İmralı used the expression that around 10-15 Turkish soldiers were prisoners. The application to the ECHR on 24 January 2002 was not on the agenda. Although these soldiers are off the agenda of the public, the family's hopeful waiting continues. Despite the alleged joint work, no reports or transcripts have been available on soldiers and public officials who have been missing since 1992. Their missing families search only for their relatives and children by their own means. Although families have not been informed by the state, reports of missing soldiers living in certain broadcast organs or various rumors have been made. In addition, there is a decision to win over soldiers who have not been heard from for more than a decade. Soldiers who are not martyrs in the eyes of the law, who have been declared unknowable, expect a response from the state. On the other hand, there have often been motions for questions about soldiers and public officials who have been kidnapped in recent years, but no satisfactory response has been received. "7 of our citizens who were kidnapped from June 2011 to today are still being detained, " says the Interior Ministry on April 25, 2012. Investigations on abduction cases are being conducted by the relevant republic's chief prosecutors, and joint work is being carried out by the security departments to determine their whereabouts. The number of casualties by the ministry has been listed as 7 since June 2011. Among our citizens are soldiers, teachers, and a candidate for a trustee. In this context, we propose that a parliamentary inquiry of the Constitution should be launched in order to determine the fate of soldiers who have been kidnapped by the PKK since 1992 and to determine the reasons why military and public officials who have been kidnapped have been missing for a very long time and need to be taken in order to determine the measures needed to be taken. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems facing pensioners and increase the levels of prosperity, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. 9/5/2012 [[Elizipt]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 7) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Lug]] For years, it must be the duty of those who govern the state to be given the necessary importance and a comfortable life for pensioners who have earned the sacred right to retirement by serving the state and the nation. The contribution of our people, who have retired in the development and development of our country, must not be ignored, and one day everyone will retire. Our retired people in our country have many problems that need to be resolved both financially and spiritually. The reason why employees don't want to retire is because these problems are unresolved. The index of workers and BUG-KUR pensions to increase pensions in six months of inflammatory inflation in laws 4447 and 5510 has limited. The Law No. 5510 must be changed by the resolution that indexes the increase in income and months to inflation. The regulations brought in by Law 6283 have created a new inequality between pensioners before 2000 and after 2000, as pensioners can't really solve the issue of attitude. The pensioners should be given a salary well-being bonus twice a year and for our religious holidays, allowing them to share in the prosperity of the country's growth. The pensioners must be allowed not to receive their contribution, their share of the prescription and the price of the difference, and the social security premiums, which have been cut out of the primary earnings of employees' pensioners and are not in the social security system, should be removed. It is also necessary to ensure that 15 per cent of pensions from pensioners who start a business after retirement and pay taxes to the state and also contribute to employment should not be cut off. The Social Insurance Institution must make the necessary agreements with banks, and pensioners must also benefit from promotions to employees. The pensioners should also be given the right to a union and be allowed to get a collective contract. The year 2012 was declared the European Year of Inter-National Solidarity. In this scope, regulations must be made to ensure that policies involving active aging are determined and implemented along with NGOs. In terms of inter-generational solidarity, pensioners' experience should also be taken advantage of, and social safety arguments and social welfare arrangements, especially in terms of old age care insurance, should be developed that will ensure human life in old age. The law of compliance of the provision that includes positive discrimination brought with our constitution for the elderly must be passed immediately, providing rent and fuel assistance to the elderly in order to satisfy the needs of warming and housing, providing special reductions in natural gas, electricity, water, telephone and transport services, and paying social support to elderly families who are taking care of the physiological needs of the elderly. In order to investigate the problems of our pensioners and increase the levels of prosperity, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and improve the problems of temporary village rangers and improve their economic and social rights, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th and Civil Code of the Constitution. 09/05/2012 [[Elizipt]] [[İzmir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 7) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Lug]] The temporary village ranger system was adopted on 18/03/1924 through Village Law 442, where its purpose was to "assign village guards to serve as armed and armed guards in order to protect everyone's rape, lives and property within the village limits." In 1985, when terrorism became serious in the east and southeast, the Law 3175 to Village Law 442. The protection system has been institutionalized, adding that if serious symptoms of violent actions appear in the village or in the environment or for any reason, the governor's proposal and the approval of the Minister of Interior and enough temporary village rangers can be assigned if the village's life and property are increased for any reason." In this system, which aims to prevent terrorist incidents locally, the rangers have successfully fought in all jobs and missions given to them, co-ordinated with security forces and Turkish Armed Forces. In 1985, the implementation of the temporary village ranger system was launched in 22 cities. In 1987, the State of Emergency took effect, and as the fighting increased, the number of rangers increased. The number of rangers, which were 14 thousand in 1988, increased rapidly with the salary of the rangers in 1992, and was launched in 1993 in 13 more cities. In 1995, the number rose to 62 thousand, to 90 thousand in 2000. Still, temporary village rangers, whose number is about 60,000, do not have any social security. In 2005, the rangers and their families were given green cards, and since 01/01/2012, they were not shown in the civil service nor in the working class. "A temporary village rangers and those they are obliged to take care of without any preconditions will benefit from general health." Even though it is said that those in debt, registered cars, houses, or real estate, are not allowed to benefit from this system. Those who receive more than 40 per cent of unemployable reports may be retired, but the rangers who are injured in operations and unable to receive 40 per cent of the report are unable to benefit from the vet. Operational compensations are determined by multiplying 400 indicator points per month by the officer's salary. This amount is equal to 25 euros per month, but this amount is very low. Therefore, the operational compensation must be calculated on the basis of 400 indicator points per day instead of monthly. The Law 5673 and compensations agreed on under the different Village Law must be transferred to the Social Security Agency as a non-payment policy for the duration of their duties under a new arrangement and should be granted the right to pension from the Social Security Institution. The current salaries of temporary village rangers must be improved, service year compensations and operational compensations must be increased, road and rations must be paid for operations, and they must be taken under the umbrella of the Social Security Institution. According to official records in the fight against terrorism over the years, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, with the aim of improving the economic and social rights of temporary village rangers who have given 1,353 casualties. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, Mr. Gültan Kışanak and Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt were elected mayor of the municipal administration elections held on 30 March 2014. In accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Mahalli Administrations and Neighborhood Chairs and Old People's Elections, I read separately the articles submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On March 30, 2014, I was elected mayor of Diyarbakır province in the general election of local administrations. There's an example of me being elected mayor. "The legislature cannot be merged with the municipality's presidency, the mayor's general assembly and the membership of a member of the city's council and a member of a member of the municipality, which is part of the 17th Article of the Law on Neighborhoods and the Elections of the Elders. Those who have been selected from one of these tasks to another use the rights of choice within 15 days from the time the election results have been delivered to them." I would like to inform you that I have taken office as mayor as of 07/04/2014 by choosing the mayor's office under his provisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On 30 March 2014, I was elected mayor of the district of Odunpazarı, Eskişehir Province, in the general election of local administrations. There's an example of me being elected mayor. "The legislature cannot be merged with the municipality's presidency, the mayor's general assembly and the membership of a member of the city's council and a member of a member of the municipality, which is part of the 17th Article of the Law on Neighborhoods and the Elections of the Elders. Those who have been selected from one of these tasks to another use the rights of choice within 15 days from the time the election results have been delivered to them." I would like to inform you that I have taken office as mayor on April 7, 2014, preferring to be mayor under his provisions. In response to these preferences, the members of the Turkish Parliament, Mr. Gültan Kışanak and Eskişehir MP Kazım Kurt have ended on its own in accordance with previous practices, as well as the dates in which Mr. Kazım Kurt had chosen to be mayor of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the Justice and Development Party group, which are available in some commissions. Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar for membership available in the Plan and Budget Commission. All in favor...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0045par0379	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit01spe0044par0380	I'll call the number of decisions I need. Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote for the empty membership of the Plan and Budget Commission was not enough. I will now repeat the voting process for Mr. Özcan Ulupınar, and I will call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start it. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0044par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote for the empty membership of the Plan and Budget Commission failed to reach the number of decisions. Now, I repeat the voting process for Mr. Özcan Ulupınar of Zonguldak, I will call for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's enough to make a decision. Mr Mehmet Danish has been nominated for a free membership in the Interior Commission. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0046par0008	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0044par0009	I'm gonna call roll call. Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yüçün, Mr. Hamzaçebi, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Güyüçer, Mr. Kösse, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Öölturk, Mr. Öner, Mr. Öz, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu. Initiating roll call, I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. All in favor... Those who refuse... are accepted. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Çanırı MP İdris Şahin and Niğde MP Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, who was in the third place, where we left to discuss the State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency's Law Proposal and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. On the whole proposal, considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code in yesterday's merger, it is in the Chandırı MP, Mr. Idris Şahin. You can enter the system for QA. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0047par0037	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, valuable members of our National Intelligence Agency, who have served at every level, I would like to submit to your grand delegation the reasons for the change in our National Intelligence Agency with such an offer of law. The main objective and duties of the state in Article 5 of the Constitution have been counted, and the independence and integrity of the Turkish nation, the protection of the country's division, the republic and democracy, the maintenance of people and society's welfare and peace and happiness are considered to be the main objective and duties of the state, and the occupation of this mission is of great importance. The MIT Law No. 2937 has been appointed to the National Intelligence Agency to establish national security intelligence on existing and possible activities against its integrity, its existence, its independence, its security, its constitutional order and its national power. In an environment where security perception has changed in foreign policy in particular, MIT Law 2937, which took effect in 1984, is at times inadequate to meet the needs of the day, unable to comply with changes in other legislation. Legal regulations are required for the MIT to be able to respond to new security and foreign policy needs. Co-ordinating state institutions with individuals, institutions, access to information and documents and communication infrastructure is intended for the national intelligence agency to perform its tasks more effectively and efficiently, is intended to work according to the principle of secrecy. Taking the necessary measures to prevent or prevent national intelligence members from revealing their duties with unjust and unlawful claims and claims must be taken advantage of the protection measures defined in the law by those contributing to intelligence services. In accordance with the structure and decisions of the national Security Council, the need for the Council of Ministers to make an operational post on matters related to foreign security, the fight against terrorism and national security. With the proposal, the MIT is being made in line with the needs of the age, and arrangements are being made to enable other intelligence agencies to be able and capable, increasing human intelligence and technical intelligence methods and capacity. Mr. President, from the day we present the law proposal to Parliament Speaker, I need to make it very clear that both the main opposition party and the other opposition party members have very important contributions and recommendations, and I want to make it very clear to you that it is in particular how we can better understand how we're listening to the suggestions of lawmakers and our friends from the ruling party during the commission work of the National Intelligence Agency. However, there's a particular point here, especially in the talks I heard yesterday. As we have already stated to our fellow commissioners, we believe that the request to interview members of the MIT came from us and that we should get information from them on some technical issues, and that even though we have stated that this meeting has happened, the chief of the main opposition party is here all the time, as if only the commission had proposed to members of the EC PARTİ. I would like to make it clear to him that despite the fact that the EC PARTİ Commission had been briefed by members of the MET that it had been submitted by members of the ESCE, and that we had been able to evaluate the very important issues of the Republican People's Party before the elections, and that they had been working together, and that we should not be able to submit it as if we had been able to provide a different action here as if it were to present by the MIT members of the MIT.K.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.R.P.P.P.P.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E.E. And again, one of the things that the group's vice president has said here is that there is a term for doing other tasks on the National Security Council in the 4th Amendment of Law 2937. So, as the National Intelligence Service can do the tasks set by the National Security Council, with a law adopted here on November 1, 1983 -- a law that the coupists have passed -- they can clearly see how the National Security Council will meet its orders and instructions, but as a representative of the nation, they have shown the same duty in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, saying they have failed to accept it by the legitimate government to do this task to the National Intelligence Agency. Again, here at the General Assembly, I believe that with the motions, we're going to enforce a law that is very different from the contribution of our friends on the committee and will be able to fully respond to the needs of our National Intelligence Agency. However, I don't understand that those who haven't made the slightest statement during the talks that have been going on since yesterday have still shown it as a reference to them by going to December 17th and December 25th. Because we always show the public's reference source to legitimate representatives, and on March 30th, these people have given more than enough answers in the chest. So, when we evaluate the national security and foreign policy that we all need, especially as to where Turkey is coming from, it is necessary to contribute to this proposal that our National Intelligence Agency will be able to provide for very different needs, very different experiences and opportunities. Our advice: Regardless of the outcome, the National Intelligence Agency is a common value of this country, and it is our pupil, so you will see that when we discuss it in the focus of daily political disputes and put some of the necessary arrangements in time, we face huge mistakes. Here's a clause that's in the proposal of the law -- I want to get your attention specifically -- there's an arrangement for foreign intelligence organizations to listen to conversations made by foreigners through telecommunications communications, to listen to conversations made by payphones. If this law had been passed before the elections, it would never, ever have been possible for these foreign agents from Syria to perform the operation in Niğde. That's what we need to make the most of, please. Again, the incident in Reyhan will reveal how urgent this law is. Again, a promise from one of the representatives of the worthy opposition parties. So this law proposal was not used by the state mind when it was discussed. I consider it an unfortunate statement that the clerk here used, even though he knew all about the background of our friends who had an offer. Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu is a person who has served in the most important positions of the state. When you're in bureaucracy, the mind of the state is good for you, but when the nation comes to Parliament as a representative of its will, does it change the mind, my dear fellow lawmakers? Let's put our trust in ourselves first and say, as representatives of the nation's will, we have the ability to make laws on many matters our country needs with the proposals we've made in this Parliament. I'd like to welcome everything from bureaucracy here and accept it in a way, amenna, but I'd like to point out from here that it's not right for you to underestimate these regulations that the people are counting on and elected by their votes.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0048par0051	Did you do it with your own mind or with your own?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0047par0052	Therefore, the right of the state mind to use it if needed here, of course, is the right of MPs in Parliament.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0049par0053	He's obviously been handed to you!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0047par0054	And as lawmakers in law enforcement, we will always be able to get information from all sorts of institutions of the state... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we have the power, thank God, and we have the means to make our own law proposal. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0050par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0051par0059	Mr. President, it's been handed to you, signed! And he says I did it. Did you work at MIT?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0052par0060	Thank you. Now, I'd like to ask you for a moment. Because yesterday, let me read about our friends who entered the system for questions and answers. Let them enter immediately, and then, Mr. Hamzacebi, I'll listen to you. If any of our friends who were in the system yesterday for questions and answers get into the system, I'll make a promise to them first. Mr. Sugar, Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Special, Mr. Demir, Mr. Soshi, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Süçünü, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Güler, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Acar. Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0053par0065	Mr. President, the speaker on the stand has transformed what I said here yesterday about the MIT Law into a different meaning than what I said yesterday. I want a promise.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0052par0066	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0053par0070	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Hawk has been twisting my words when he should have made a decision and made a statement about all the events, as is the case with a witness, especially with a lawyer's identity on the stand. What I said yesterday was that the National Intelligence Agency briefed and briefed lawmakers on the MIT Law Proposal. I didn't say that. If this information is given to AKP MPs, it must be given to Republican People's Party MPs and to other MPs. He gave it to me at your request, he didn't give it to me at all. If the National Intelligence Agency has come to inform you, they must inform the other MPs. I'm still waiting for an apology from Mr. Secretary, from the National Intelligence Agency, to come and give you information whenever you want. I'm waiting for an answer, but no one cares.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0054par0071	That wouldn't be very healthy.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0055par0072	Yeah, well, you covered that. We met with our fellow commissioners, and you blocked it off.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0053par0073	Mr. MIT officials, your Minister may not give you this instruction; your duty is to give this information whenever you order it. It means, please, don't make yourself political. Second of all, you came to me here on March 1st, through our Commissioner Ali Serindağ, let's get this MIT Act out of the way... do you know what your problem was? Let's compromise, let's get it out, let's shut it down, so that there's no reading. I said, "There's no way this can be reached, it can only be dealt with after the election." I mean, you wanted to pass this law like you were smuggling stuff from a fire, and we wouldn't let you. Now you're saying that we want to change the law prepared by the fighters. You're defending it. No, you went 12 years on the coup d'état, you ruled this country for 12 years with the coup d'états' law, you came up with the 10 percent election dam prepared by the coupgers, and he's here most of the time, you don't want to change it. You're the ones who took refuge in the coups. I'm out of time, I'm out of words, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0056par0077	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0057par0078	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0056par0079	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0057par0080	Speaking on behalf of Mr. AKP, İdris Şahin Bey has made a mockery of the state's mind regarding the criticism I made yesterday. It's about...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0056par0081	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0057par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. In his speech, Mr. Şahin said that one of the MPs who drafted the proposal had previously served as president of the prime minister's office, and that there was actually a state mind involved in this proposal, and they criticised my remarks in this framework. Mr. Hawk, you probably didn't serve in public. That's not the state mind, Mr. Hawk. I mean, God willing, if you ever work as a civil servant, you'll know what the state mind is.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0058par0087	We're not the government mind, we're the people who want to walk with the mind.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0057par0088	The state mind, the National Intelligence Agency and Agency Mahsusa, who are behind the republic's founding will, should see how the state's most important institutions -- including the Department of State, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of State, the Security General Directorate -- will see how this proposal will result, including many relevant institutions -- have been proposed to this bill, in the form of a bill, which all members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, including members of your party -- will see how this proposal will result. How can you express that a report that has no opinion of public institutions, its institutions, its institutions, its experts, is prepared with the state mind? However, how does the state come before this House with 18 amendment proposals for a 15-point proposal prepared in its mind? You're making fun of our minds, as you're not aware of the state's mind. This is nothing more than overstepping your courage. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0059par0091	Mr. Canikli, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0060par0092	Mr. Hamzacebi, you're taking refuge with the fighters. He used an expression.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0059par0093	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0060par0095	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Now, of course, polymixes are happening from time to time, through the laws that took place during the coup period. All governments have ruled or served in the past with laws passed at this time. Still, many laws may be in effect at that time. First of all, the Constitution is in effect despite all these changes. So, from this point of view, it's not right to blame or blame the governments, political parties, when these laws are in effect. It's not right, it's wrong. So, then, because everyone's taken refuge with the coupgers? Is it possible to say something like that to all of the government political parties that were active during the time of the laws at that time? It's not true, so it needs to be fixed. Oh, when there's criticism, there's an answer, but an accusation like that for an answer to criticism is the right way, not the right way to put it. Now, look, this discussion, the information discussion of the MIT, is based from here: as the AK PARTY Group... okay, Mr. Hamzacebi said: I don't mean the AK PARTY Group. As the EC PARTY Group, we weren't given any institutional information. At the request of the friends who prepared the proposal themselves -- of course, when they were preparing such an offer, they needed information, needed to be supported, there's nothing more natural than that -- they got information from fellow officials, interested friends; that's the case. I mean, demand came from friends who made the offer. Otherwise, sir, it's not like a group or a group of lawmakers were informed or not informed. Naturally, while other proposals are being prepared and friends from the opposition are preparing an offer from bureaucracy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...of course they'll take advantage of the state's rights. There's nothing more natural.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0061par0100	Was it requested in writing? Did the Prime Minister give you permission?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0062par0101	We're members of this commission, Mr. Canikli. Why aren't we there?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0060par0102	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0063par0104	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0064par0105	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0063par0106	Mr. Serindağ, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0064par0107	Mr. President, Mr. Idris Şahin has informed the National Security Council that the duties given are not in accordance with the law. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to correct it according to Article 69.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0065par0108	Sir, no teasing, Mr. President. Everyone has their own opinion. Mr. Hamzacebi spoke because of the bullying, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0064par0109	I want it according to Article 69, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0065par0110	He gave false information. He says there's no such thing!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0066par0111	Since you don't want to be bullied, I can give you your place, in terms of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0064par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0066par0113	You asked for an update, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0064par0114	Mr. President, I'd like to bring one more thing to your attention: Mr. Idris Şahin met with me on March 1st, and I briefed our chairman of the group about the meeting, and then I spoke to them. He expressed some different aspects of this meeting. It's a tease, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to present it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0066par0115	Here, we bent it a little bit, but here's the deal. I mean, from now on, you're just a man with legal knowledge, and I'd appreciate it if you didn't put me in a difficult position. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0067par0120	Thank you. Mr. President, members of parliament, it is written in the MIT Law that the National Security Council will give orders and instructions to the MIT. Duty is one thing -- our friends in bureaucracy know it -- it's one thing to give orders and instructions. You serve an officer or an institution, he performs that duty within the framework of the institution or the mandate of the Constitution and the law, which is not an order or a directive. Secondly, you used a statement as if the National Security Council were illegitimate, as if the Council of Ministers were legitimate. The President of the National Security Council is Mr. President, its members are known. The National Security Council, however, makes recommendations, advises the Council of Ministers, and is referred to relevant units in the form of orders after it becomes a Council of Ministers decision. The other thing: Now, before the election, you spoke to me, and you said, "Let's work together." I said that we can't do this work at that narrow time, but we can express our opinion on this after the election, which I told our deputy chairman of the group, and that's how I gave you the information, and that's what we did. However, you brought it up in a hurry after the election, we didn't get a chance to meet, and you didn't have that kind of request. I'd like to present this matter to the agenda of the General Assembly. And then there's the wrong information. Congressmans, the incident in Niğde (Nigde) is not due to the current law of MIT (MIT), it is a failure of governance. The matter of the truck, the inspection of the trucks, the incident in Niğde, and what happened at the Syrian border, is a complete failure of governance. It's not right to impose management incompetence on legislation, I wanted to express it. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0068par0130	Moving on to QA. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0069par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: there's a world-famous Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and he's had some allegations for two years. He's recently made a very serious claim about this sarin gas in particular, and he says: "This sarin gas was sent from Turkey." The Sarin production cell connected to the El Nusra front was created within Syria. This sarin gas was supplied by the MIT. He was also trained by the gendarmes. As far as I've seen in the newspapers, the government has made no statement about such an explanation or such an incident. It's in the press, and it appears to be in the American press. Can you make a statement about that, is that a case? We gave them the sarin gas, and they took it and used it there, and the gendarmes trained it. It's called. I'd like to hear your explanation for this, thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0070par0135	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0071par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. The WikiLeaks documents, where Erdogan had an account in Swiss banks, have been reported for years. So why isn't this government investigating whether or not this account is there? Well, the DA can do that, but he's always covering it up. We are now told by this MIT law: "Sir, we will make eight proposals in the General Assembly." How irresponsible is this government? We don't know what you're going to suggest. The proposal brought before us brings the dictatorship of Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Turkish-style sherry regime. To fully use his dictatorship, to eliminate his rivals, to align them, he's setting up an absolute MIT organization of his own. Those whom he serves in this OSCE can kill the men he wants, commit corruption in any way he wants, their accounts can be seized, and they will have no responsibility. There is no such organization in the most dictatorial countries. He's bringing it now, giving the fate of an entire nation to the 8,000-strong MIT agency...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0070par0139	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0072par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a pardon for the members of the MIT who have committed a crime against this proposal. How many members of the MIT are arrested or convicted for having committed crimes, negotiating with terrorist organizations, linking them to a memorandum of understanding, helping them? Second: As part of what you co-ordinating, described by us as the process of treason, the terrorist organization in the east and southeastern part of the process has taken a position in which they have been given all kinds of freedoms, which are not caught in violation of the 137th Article of the Constitution, and have achieved better construction and power in the provinces and districts. Is your conscience clear as to the point of this project? I wonder if you consider the troubles of the Turkish nation to be a problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0073par0144	Dear Private...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0074par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this law gives members of the MIT the state of irresponsibility and irresponsibility and the right to be held in a way that no democracy can accept, and it is said that the law shall be passed if there are different provisions in Article 9 of the same law and other laws governing the same issue. Now, with these powers that we've given MIT, the judge's guarantee or parliamentary immunity will be superior to this law when the members of the MIT will be superior, so please make it clear whether they have the right to take judges or prosecutors who conduct the investigation, even members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, outside the scope of immunity, interrogation, detention, or not.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0075par0148	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0076par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it has been stated by government and Turkish Armed Forces officials that in cases such as the Sledgehammer, military espionage, Ergenekon, the Turkish Armed Forces have been framed and that rights violations have been committed against those who have been tried in these cases. Public statements have said that parallel structures and external forces have been affected in these cases. However, investigations carried out under these cases have not yet been concluded, although there have been rights violations. In this regard, where are the investigations carried out by the General Staff's Military Prosecutor's Office on these cases? No.5 by Naval Command Military Prosecutor's Office. Where is the investigation into the deployment of the lu hard drive? Where is the investigation carried out by the Chief of Staff on 27 December 2013 by the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0077par0153	Mr. Oktay Sour... no. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0078par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has been listening to the first item on the agenda since the 17th December operation. As the main opposition, we have opposed listening for years. Two years ago, you're being followed step by step by step by our president, and we're even watching you breathe. These wiretaps aren't new. In 2004, MGK documents were released in February 2010, where they claimed to belong to General Ilker Başbug. The same incident took place in August 2011. We were saying the same thing that day, and we were saying that we should find out who did these listenings and put them in public. If you have no wrong jobs, illegal jobs, do not be afraid to rest. Where was the government when so many people were resting? Now you're saying that listening is illegal. If there's a crime against the law, we, the CHP, stand behind it. When will the MIT and the government find those investigations and wiretaps responsible for illegal wiretaps? When will he catch these criminals who entered the government's heart and brain? What does MIT do? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0079par0158	Mr. Lightning... no. Mr. Cloud... no. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0080par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, yesterday you stated that the MIT was more likely to carry out its foreign intelligence duties. Does that mean he won't be operating abroad? My second question, Mr. Secretary, is that in April 2013, MIT reported to Mr. Prime Minister about the relationship between Reza Zarrab and some ministers, and if these relations were discovered in the report, the government would be in a difficult position. Is it appropriate to state that the government will be in trouble? Is it the mission of the MIT to perform practices that will not make the government difficult? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0081par0165	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0082par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, because of you, our people's faith in the state has been shaken. Yesterday, you said in your speech as the public deputy prime minister and representative of the government that most of the work of MSCE is currently run by a code of secrecy rather than by law, and part of the regulations that we bring here are in that regulation. I have it with me, and I'll show it to anyone who wants to see it. You also turned down the MPs who wanted to see it. How do you explain that? Also, there is information in the press today that you have taken this work as an offer to the President yourself, that you have taken the president's opinion, and that you have promised to make changes in accordance with his proposals, and then these motions are being drafted. What do you have to say about that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0083par0169	Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0084par0170	Mr. Secretary, under the new law, can any MIT official give criminal instructions to institutions, MIT employees or public institutions? For example, if an MIT official asks a person's doctor to examine the subject as a criminal, how will this matter be decided, how will the process be, how will it be, how will it be controlled, the law foresees, can you explain that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0083par0171	Mr. Güler, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0085par0172	Mr. President, thank you. In December 2009, there was a claim that there had been an assassination attempt on Mr. Bulent Arinc, five years ago. A result of this claim was the search of the cosmic room for days. What was the result of the assassination investigation? Second, more than 30 officers were thrown out of the Army Command when the trial of the military was carried out in İzmir. How was this savings accomplished while the trial was ongoing, when there was no conviction? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0086par0176	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0087par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to thank the high-profile lawmakers who ask questions, take their word for it. Here, of course, our Secretary of State has made a statement regarding the question Mr. Candy asked about Syria, and I'm confirming that it's all lies and slanderous news. So many assessments have been made in Turkey. I don't understand how a foreign thing -- I can't even say it's an expert -- is being taken so seriously and taken so seriously in Parliament. Second, the Swiss bank account of Recep Erdogan... has made many, many statements about it, the Prime Minister has said, "Ispat." He said, "Let them bring even one, I will do this." I remind you of him here again. Mr. Turkoglu, about the proposal... of course, there are long comments here. There's no pardon here, there's no pardon, there's no pardon clause, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0088par0181	It's not a crime.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0087par0182	The solution process is now one of the most important projects in front of our government and is going efficiently. Hopefully, it's a work we believe will be good for Turkey. Mr. Special says it's a law that no democratic country can accept. I mean, of course, I wish -- I've expressed it yesterday -- if there was any way to compare it to the laws of other countries' intelligence agencies, we'd appreciate it if you could, you wouldn't say that. Dear friends, here, in conflict with other laws and so forth... of course, they're all part of the arrangement. Well, there's nothing here that can connect you to a judge's innocence, parliamentary immunity or anything like that, so let me put it this way. As a trial, members of the MIT can be tried everywhere. That's what we're doing with today's motion. Only the president of MIT will be tried in the Supreme Court today, in the governors, in the mayors of the capital, as in the undersecretary of the state, and we bring only that difference.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0089par0186	Mr. Secretary, I don't think we have the same bill as you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0090par0187	Mr. Turkoglu, please... continue with the others.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0089par0188	Well, he's telling me something else.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0090par0189	It could be, I mean...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0091par0190	He's telling you what he knows, sir. We're asking you if you don't know.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0191	Mr. Iron, this is about conspiracy and so on, these cases... we all know where the cases are going. So I don't have to tell you about them here, about the process of cases. So we're pleased to hear that your ruling on the last case has been made. We've always had an opinion that arrests should be kept short, that cases should end quickly, of course, fairly. So, in this way...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0093par0192	Are there any MIT members under arrest, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0193	Right now, my friends have graded me on the previous question. There are no MIT officers wanted, five people on trial for the crime of duty, two people on trial for the personal crime, one of whom is under arrest, and I'll be able to state that. Mr. Ödümün, about the listening... of course, you know, there's already been a law passed here by your grand delegation... that has made listening, forensic listening very difficult. I mean, from now on, we're going to be in criminal courts, and we're going to be pushing it very hard in terms of the law. But since listening has become a very grave perception in our society, such an advanced arrangement has been made to correct it. In fact, in these matters, especially if there was illegal listening, there were severe punishments against them. Things we all complain about. The question of Mr. Serindağ is: doesn't he have any duties inside -- internal intelligence? Of course, the mission of the MIT concerning terrorism and espionage is everywhere, and it's in there.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0094par0196	That's not my question, Mr. Secretary, that's not my question. You're wrong about the question.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0197	So, there's only law enforcement authority in espionage crimes and the disclosure of state secrets, otherwise there's no internal operation.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0094par0198	Sir, what's your answer to the MIT report?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0199	Other than that, Mr. Horseman, here, about the regulations... I have the regulations, of course, the privacy of the inside. I thought I'd show you this regulation, and I did. I'll show you on the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0094par0200	Minister, what is your answer to Reza Zarrab, Reza Zarrab?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0201	I mean, it's a secret code, and the regulation is now in effect.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0095par0202	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, I'll come and see you, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0204	I'm answering right now, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0096par0205	Let's finish the QA, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0206	Take your seats. Come back when I can.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0097par0207	Okay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0208	Mr. Erdoğdu asked if he could give the criminal instructions. No one can give you a criminal order.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0098par0209	Well, you do.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0210	It's a constitutional decree.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0098par0211	Didn't you give it to the forensics? Didn't you say don't do the job of the prosecutors? ▪ Do not follow the counsel of the prosecutors. Didn't you say?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0212	No one, no one, can give a person anything that's illegal, that's a crime. It will be given to the Council of Ministers -- since it is on the agenda yesterday -- within the framework of the agency's law, and it is possible to give examples from various European Union countries.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0099par0213	It's not a government gang, it's a gang.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0214	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, especially when we were working on it, after we were offered as government, you know, after we were proposed to as government, we were very serious about it. We've got it here...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0099par0215	Yeah, didn't you work before you let me?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0216	If we had prepared it before we came... it's always said here, it's wrong, it's slander. After we get here, we've been through this seriously, so we're giving him 18 motions. If we had made the offer first, it wouldn't have been corrected by the government's motions, which is the simplest logic, the mindful understands.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0099par0217	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0100par0218	That's exactly what we're saying back.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0219	But if anyone doesn't understand, I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0101par0220	He's insulting the House.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0221	I'm not insulting you, I'm telling you that.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0102par0222	Didn't he say "work"? We've worked hard on this arrangement.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0101par0223	▪ Moments of reason, moments of reason.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0224	Yes, it is.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0101par0225	No sense, no sense...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0226	That's right.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0103par0227	Mr. Secretary, will you answer the questions?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0228	I'm not saying it's unreasonable. One person repeats it all the time, I tell him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0104par0229	Is that a thing? That's what happens!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0103par0230	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0231	Sir... sir...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0105par0232	Sir, he can't answer, Mr. Secretary, he can't answer questions, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0106par0233	If your nerves are so loose, then you will not occupy this office!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0234	Mr. Arinc is a subject of a lawsuit, so I can't answer him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0105par0235	The Secretary of Packages can't answer questions, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0236	But in the beginning, I want to make this clear. I have no intention of insulting anyone.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0107par0237	Then take it back.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0238	Congressmans, it's just...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0108par0239	Well, take that statement back, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0240	I'm just saying, if the government makes a proposal...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0109par0241	Then there'll be a bill.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0242	...or if our lawmakers made them as proposals, I, our Home Secretary, our friends, our institutions worked on that proposal over and over and over again... before we came here, we presented our Prime Minister for the first time, look, there's something like this, and we got his instructions.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0110par0243	They're making fun of people.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0244	And these motions...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0110par0245	I mean, if you love God!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0246	We're a serious government, my friends.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0111par0247	Have you asked the President's permission, sir?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0248	Look, we work, we do our job well.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0112par0249	Well, at least give the General Assembly some accurate information. Let's give the General Assembly the right information. He disrespects the congressman, disrespects the nation.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0250	Look, therefore, our friends have made a proposal here, and we've made that proposal in all its dimensions...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0112par0251	Before that, the bill came in, you changed the whole fucking bill!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0252	Now this is being debated, valued MPs, this is being discussed. I mean, here's the thing about legislature, the thing about legislature, it comes from two channels -- about the law -- it comes from either the bill or the bill. Both of these are valuable. If the law comes as a bill, it has its procedure, and if it comes as a proposal, I've submitted it to you already -- the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will send it to the government and ask the government for opinion and the government will send an opinion on it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0113par0253	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary says these things to waste time, doesn't answer questions.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0254	The Constitution and our Civil Law have very clear provisions in this regard.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0114par0255	Sir, I asked the President if you had consulted.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0256	Our valued group presidents know this very well, and we've worked most seriously since this offer was made, and the motions have seen a lot of our opposition MPs' proposals on the Commission very important.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0115par0258	Mr. Secretary, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0092par0259	For example, Mr. Sokish had a request about the press arrangement, and we saw it very important, and we arranged it accordingly. So I'm saying that we feel very important about what friends say on the Commission. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0115par0261	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0116par0263	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0117par0264	Well, sir, the answer is... let's not ask questions, it's hard.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0116par0265	Now, sir, the Minister says that this offer...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0118par0266	Mr. Secretary, let's make a photocopy of that document.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0119par0267	Wait a minute... there's a noise in the lines of the commission, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0120par0268	We received the President's opinion after he was released from the commission.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0119par0269	Mr. Horseman, if you'll slow down, I'd like to hear Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0121par0270	But that's an important matter, Mr. President, the Minister has promised.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0119par0271	Yes, Mr. Tanal, I'll do as you say, and I'll keep Mr. Hamzacebi waiting like this. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0122par0273	Now, sir, the National Intelligence Agency has prepared this proposal, the MPs have signed it and signed it. I find the Minister's explanation of this to be a shock, a surprise, to be sure. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to swear on the most sacred of values. Did the MPs really make this offer?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0123par0274	There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0122par0275	Come on, I'm waiting, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0124par0276	Let's go, let's go!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0123par0277	There's no such thing, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0125par0278	Ask the bidder, you'll ask the bidder.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0126par0279	Mr. Secretary, please... On the whole offer...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0127par0281	But you're saying it yourself, that MIT didn't make this offer. You're saying it yourself.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0128par0282	You'll ask the bidder, did you take advantage of someone, or did you make them yourself?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0129par0283	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0284	Mr. Secretary, please... Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0129par0286	Mr. President, your president has transferred this proposal to Justice, National Defense and Plan Budget Commissions as a subcommittee. Mr. President, I beg your pardon, has this commission received a wire transfer? Has the commission been informed that they will not discuss it? Because it's not in the report. I'm asking because it's not in the report. I'm waiting for your president to explain this to you, sir, about this post of yours, your presidency. Because since the transfer was made by the President, the reports of these commissions are only sent through the presidency.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0287	Okay. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0131par0289	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary couldn't answer one of the questions I asked. Either he tells me himself, or I'll tell him to file a report, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0132par0290	I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0291	Time's up, Mr. Secretary, please, your time's up.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0132par0292	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0133par0293	Then, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, this is...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0294	Yes, see, according to the Civil Code, there is no such thing. For God's sake...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0133par0295	Mr. President, I have a sentence to make.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0296	So in a continuous sentence, I'm going to vote on this law right now.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0133par0297	He told me himself that he had consulted the president. I'm just saying, sir, for the record.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0298	You did, all right.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0134par0299	I didn't say I did. You're wrong. Look, don't get me wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0135par0302	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit03spe0130par0303	We've got a roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Land, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Akar, Mr. Agababa, Mr. Ater, Mr. Demir, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Kart, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Ayadün, Mr. Değerdereli, Mr. Aslan. I'll start roll call, give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0130par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call on the request was not enough before the vote to transfer the proposed proposal to its articles. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0136par0007	Mr. President, sir, you gave me ten minutes after roll call. According to my account, you were inside for nearly 20 minutes. The goal without roll call is to find out if the necessary majority in the hall is enough for a meeting. After ten minutes, sir, you have no right to extend that time and remove it from its purpose.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0130par0008	You're right, I'm sorry. But Mr. Vural had a question, so we talked about him with friends - other people in the back, and they were witnesses. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0136par0009	I don't think Mr. Vural said to answer that question by stretching that time.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0130par0010	I mean, it's not really something I did on purpose. I'm sorry, General Assembly. [[Investigation continued with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Anyone who wants a word on chapter one...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0137par0022	Mr. President, I asked you a question.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0130par0023	I'm going to answer that now. Mr. Vural had a question for our presidency as to whether or not the proposed proposal was discussed in the transfer commissions. Tali commissions have not discussed the proposal, there are no reports. I promise the commissioner to make a statement on this matter as well. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0138par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0130par0028	Mr. Tanal, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0139par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, after a transfer to our General Assembly's Bill of Law Commission, which has been discussed today, on 20/02/2014, the National Defence Commission of our commissions referred to them as a commission has announced to our Commission that they will not be able to discuss the proposal during the foreseeable period of 21/02/2014. For your information.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0140par0032	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0141par0033	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0140par0034	Reported on the 21st, this report is dated February 24, 2014. So why isn't he here about these notifications that they won't see each other? I mean, why isn't he involved?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0142par0035	There should be reports. It should be in the report.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0140par0036	They made a statement before the commission report. So isn't a commission supposed to be the decision of the transfer commission to the subcommittee, which the presidency has established on this will?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0143par0037	Mr. Commission, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0144par0038	That's not necessary, sir, because as a commission, we, the Internal Affairs Commission, are filing a report on our negotiations and decisions made in our Commission. We don't need to compile information from other commissions in the internal commission report. Yours truly.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0145par0040	Mr. President, he's got it all wrong, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0146par0041	Is that possible, sir? Whatever was done by the wire transfer, the principal commission reported that they would not discuss it. Shouldn't there be a statement? How am I supposed to know? How am I supposed to know?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0147par0042	In 30 years, how will anyone who studies the law know?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0148par0043	Mr. President, this is the internal commission's report.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0146par0044	How do I know you didn't get it? Is that even possible? How do I know if the Tali Commission's opinion is in or out? Look, you just said he didn't. Look, the Laws and Decisions there said, "Sir, he didn't give it as it was." I told him if he gave it to me, he had to be scrutinized. The coven itself has been cut off!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0148par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0149par0047	Wait a second... Mr. Young had something to say.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0150par0049	Sir, here's the thing: We're discussing this commission report, we're discussing the Commission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission report is not edited according to procedure, it is incomplete. Information is stored in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, and property is wanted to be hijacked. Therefore, this commission report must not be discussed because the Commission must do serious work. There's a commission there, the Constitutional Commission... it's a matter of human rights. MIT gives the authority to kill, suspends basic rights and freedoms, and the safety of citizens vanishes. Such a law does not take information from the Constitutional Commission, does not negotiate, does not receive information from the Justice Commission, and then they are not written in the commission report. Well, don't they say that the day after tomorrow, those who study this commission report, that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey didn't even know about it? Isn't there any deputy here who hasn't seen them? All of this will be said. According to this, Mr. President's Court is not supposed to process this report.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0151par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0152par0052	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0151par0053	The Internal Affairs Commission publishes or produces this report on its own work.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0153par0054	He's going to publish the right report, right, right.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0151par0055	Information on Tali commissions is an administrative procedure.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0153par0056	Tali commissions are writing...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0151par0057	If they are wanted to learn what they are, they can be learned freely in accordance with Mr. Vural's request. Therefore, this report does not need to be compiled. Because this is the Home Secretary's report, the Internal Affairs Commission's report, Mr. President, to the General Board. Therefore, there is no shortage here, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0154par0058	We're going door-to-door looking for reports?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0155par0059	I mean, there's no need to inform the MPs, the presidency's transferred, I can do as I please, I don't give a damn about the presidency. It's a transfer from the presidency. The commission said, "I couldn't report an interview." Who is that Commissioner? Who's the President of the Justice Commission? Who's the head of the National Defense Commission? According to us, his writing means nothing. That's an insult! If he showed respect and reported it in writing about this statement, you'll file the report. He reported it before your meeting. After the meeting, give it to me. So, disrespectfully, we don't care what happens to the Plan Budget Commission.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0156par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0157par0061	Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0156par0062	Now, when we look at the Internal Affairs Commission report, it seems that the bidders have not given any information about this proposal. However, in a commission meeting, the bidders are promised, the bidders tell them the reasons for the offer he made, tells them what the offer is, informs the commission. Here's the report, which begins directly with the information the government has given to the Commission in the information department. The bidders didn't give the Commission any information - I can understand that, why they wouldn't give us information. The National Intelligence Agency has already prepared this proposal, and we've already signed it, we don't know, so the government is starting the report with its statement -- or it's actually starting with the government's statement -- lawmakers, the bidders, but it hasn't been taken seriously, it hasn't been written in the report because the government's statement is the original owner, so it's much more important. Either way, this Internal Affairs Commission report is against the Civil Code. An interview cannot be held based on a report by the Internal Affairs Commission, which is not written, sir, unless the bidder has provided information or information.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0157par0063	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0064	Mr. President, really, these are not grounds that have nothing to do with the Civil Code or the law.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0159par0065	How unrelated?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0066	Now, look, a will has appeared. The commission is in control of the agenda...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0159par0067	What a judge!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0068	...and this will is here in all its details.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0159par0069	Canic doesn't know anything. That's not gonna happen! You must write a report according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0070	I mean, what is this will? This will, all of the talks on the proposal are in detail... and the bidders are already offering the grounds. That's where it's located. So the bidders' alibis aren't in the proposal? He's getting it; he's got it right here. Also, naturally, the government's opinion is being received in the Commission and the report is being compiled. From this point of view, there is no shortage. It's the same way that commission reports have been produced before, whatever content they're made in, it's no different than any other, there's no discrepancy at all, Mr. President. This can't happen, for God's sake! What's important is whether or not will is involved in the legislative activity we're doing here. That's the bottom line, it needs to be looked at, and there's nothing missing from it, Mr. President. The Internal Affairs Commission doesn't have to compile information about the Tali commissions here; it may or may not.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0160par0071	If it was, it'd be useful. He'll have to take it from now on.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0072	It could have been, yes.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0161par0073	Not how, sir! So when he gives the report, I don't write the report. Can he say that? Is that even possible? Of course! I mean, what a mindset! Nurettin Bey gave me the report, sir, we don't have to write it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0074	Mr. President, if you have an opinion...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0161par0075	And, Mr. President, our Commissioners are reading this report. He says that he was transferred to the National Defence Commission. The commissioner doesn't know what was done. If you'll excuse me, we're discussing the report.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0076	We have all the information we need for a law enforcement operation here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0162par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0161par0078	Is that even possible? He says that even though Nurettin gives the report, the Commission doesn't have to write it, we'll pass.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0079	Look, he needs to write down his response as an administrative procedure.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0161par0080	You're gonna write down his opinion, write down his opinion. For God's sake...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0158par0081	No, that's not an obligation. They're because they're fundamental, not subjective.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0164par0083	Mr. Commissioner, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0084	Mr. President, during the commission's work, Mr. Group Vice President Engin Altay, representing the Republican People's Party, was in our commission hall from the beginning to the end of our work, and brought it up. That's when I shared with them the information that all three of the commissions had informed us that they would not be able to negotiate during the appointed time, and I shared with our Commission. Why would we keep the information from whom we can't see the three commissions? We answered it the moment he was asked. If our nationalist Action Commissioner friend was in the conference room that day, he'd already witnessed it. Something else...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0165par0086	Then he wasn't in the report. For example, if he did make such an important issue, why didn't you write it down in the report?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0166par0087	You don't have to, it's a summary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0088	Now, if you'll excuse me. This is an administrative procedure, which has nothing to do with the commission work, the commission proposal, the bill. Administic procedure has made me believe that this offer...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0167par0090	It's not management, it's duty.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0091	...which gives the Internal Affairs Commission the right to discuss this offer and not discuss it. By taking that information, I'd like to take the position of Commissioner...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0167par0092	You can't hide information, the commission doesn't withhold information.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0093	Nothing's been hidden from anyone.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0167par0094	You hid it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0163par0095	The commission has been called to a meeting and the Commission has done its duty. In addition, the opinions of the bidders were also received, but when the commission began, before the agenda of the amendment was prioritized to the Constitution, the parliamentary council members asked for a statement on the matter, a group of spokesman representing each group was promised, and then the bidders were promised. The Polish talks included talks made by the bidders. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0168par0097	Thank you. Anyone who wants a word on chapter one...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0169par0099	This isn't written either, sir, this isn't written, and this isn't in the report.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0170par0100	Sir, it's not all written down, Mr. President, these are the commission reports.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0169par0101	That's not in the report either. The Constitution has not all been written against the contrary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0171par0102	Sir, as soon as it's written, what can we do, what will the General Assembly do?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0170par0103	Mr. President, for God's sake, I mean, it's not gonna happen, there's a commission report, sir, it's all in there, it's all in there, all the conversations are recorded, so will they be filed in the report, Mr. President? A report is something else, a report is something else.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0169par0104	Are we talking about the transcripts? We're talking reports!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0172par0105	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, I'd like to invite you back for a cup of tea. I'm gonna take a break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0173par0106	Mr. President, there's no need, you go ahead, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0107	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0172par0108	Sir, here's all of you together... and then, when he comes back, you'll talk again.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0109	Mr. President, one moment, sir...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0172par0110	Let me listen to you, then. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0112	Mr. President, I'm on my feet about to speak before Mr. Canikli...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0175par0113	So I stood up.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0114	So after I got up, Mr. Canikli jumped, you listened to him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0176par0115	I'm all ears, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0116	I'm standing. You say I'm taking a break.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0176par0117	Okay, I'm listening now, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0118	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my speech, and then you can take a break again, sir. I accept the commissioner's statement with regret. For one thing, he didn't answer my question. Secondly, it says: "There have been debates of the law, there have been debates of violations of the Constitution." These are not in the commission report. So a commission doesn't write down what's happening in front of the commission, what's going on here? They didn't write it, they didn't write it anywhere.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0177par0121	So what if it's not written? What if it wasn't written?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0174par0122	No one's putting the bidders on the spot. I don't know if they made a statement or not. The commissioner says we have information. The information received isn't in here. Well, how am I supposed to know?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0178par0123	The Constitution must first take violations. He's got it, but there's no decision here, there's no decision. Because there was a vote.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0179par0124	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0180par0125	If it's over...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0181par0126	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0182par0127	Now, third of all, this is an organizational amendment. The main commission must be the Plan and Budget Commission. The wire transfer is wrong, the wire transfer is wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0180par0128	Yes, I beg you, including the Commissioner.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0181par0129	Mr. President, what are you going to change?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit04spe0180par0130	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0180par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here, the government is here. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Celal Dinçer has asked for a speech on the first chapter. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0183par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter of Law Proposal 563. I salute your high council. Before I begin my speech, I am deeply celebrating the 169th anniversary of the Turkish police force, thanking all our dedicated police friends and security officers. Before I reveal my views on the proposal of the law, under this roof on Tuesday, our president-in-chief, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu, once again condemns, curses, and I would like to point out a few points: First of all, I'd like to point out to you what it means to the press before the elections that the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor's statement that the opposition leaders will be attacked. Secondly, there is a security weakness in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The parliament has returned to the inn; the thief, the criminal, even the drug addict, can walk into all departments of parliament. I waited a month and a half to enter the British Parliament as head of a property. The Turkish Parliament should not be transformed into such a mobile inn. Third, I'd like to call on Mr. Home Secretary to investigate the negligence and lack of protection of a main opposition leader under the House, the temple of democracy. Mr. President, not one of the three laws, as expressed by a fellow MP, has been taken into account by our criticism as opposition MP during the meeting of the MIT Law Proposal for Change in its short name in the Interior Commission -- very few, perhaps some -- has been taken into account. Our talks to discuss this proposal in the Constitutional Commission have not been taken into account, and it has not been taken into account by the Plan and Budget Commission; in short, there has been a capuchin law in this law, as in other laws. The National Intelligence Agency is an all-powerful organization. It is also natural that our organization should be restored to a modern structure. However, changes brought with the MIT proposal of law pose some dangers in terms of democracy, in terms of the regime. This proposal extends the mandate and authority of the MIT, providing the MIT with the authority to operate directly, not only as an intelligence gathering institution. The MIT is protected by heavy armor, not by its duties and powers, but also by its personnel. In contrast, there is no regulation on the bureaucratic, judicial, and political control of the MIT. The regulation converts the powers to be adopted in exceptional terms to general quality. MIT will make it an extraordinary institution, and it will form its structure. There is no question that such an attitude would not create democratic intelligence structure, but would create a despotic intelligence structure. The 1st article of the proposal expands the duties of the MIT. Foreign security, counterterrorism, national security are authorized by the Council of Ministers to perform any task given to them. Any assignment here is vague and dangerous. If the proposal of the law is accepted in this way, the power will be able to use the MIT in particular in internal intelligence against its opponents. Article 3 of the proposal limits the powers of the MIT. The current law limited its use of MIT powers to connect with public institutions and organisations. However, it is expanded to include the private sector, with which I draw your attention, not to public administration, but to the entire community -- to the order of the MIT. The proposed provisions include a large shield of protection, while the judicial process allows all information and documents to be accessed in the proceedings that have begun, in preparation. This will be an application that will eliminate the credibility of the trial, and it is wrong. The proposal also eliminates the government's policy of listening in one centre. From now on, listening within the TİB will be available at its own listening centers, which the MIT will build, at multiple centers, and all of the listening will be by written order of the Undersecretary or his assistant, some of whom will be able to be converted to a judge's decision within 24 hours, but -- I withdraw your attention -- it will never, ever be sought by a judge's decision, which is a very dangerous development. It is clear that any freedom in the public area will be eliminated in such an application that is not sought for a judge's decision. The proposal turns the 7th article into an unquestionable structure. The MIT makes its personnel in a suit of armor that will cover the investigation, as well as the subject of the trial. I'm here to make it clear that an immunity from lawmakers is being granted to members of the MIT. Anyone who touches the MIT will burn. Article 8 brings such provisions that all of them will face criminal charges, regardless of the newspaper, the magazine, social media, which publishes, and publishes a report on the MIT. Only I and only I spoke in the House Internal Affairs Commission. I said, "You've counted so much here, there's a teamaker left, if you'd counted him, you should have put him in the punishment." This can't be happening, guys. You can't punish everyone, including the media boss, with a press release. I think these mistakes will be corrected, we've been informed. This and this clause are a coup d'etat to the freedom of the press. The proposal obliges all true and legal individuals to give information they want. There will be no privacy of the private sector. Trade secrets will be removed, which will receive any information, including bank information. So everyone, all unions, rooms, municipalities, public enterprises and citizens are obliged to give their information as officers under the command of the MIT. So, the Prime Minister wants to create an iron fist with this offer. This iron fist is becoming an unlimited arrangement to eliminate individual rights and guarantees. Instead of organizing a democratic intelligence organization, it is not right to make these arrangements that will lead to a despotic structure. Democratic intelligence services are provided only under the supervision and supervision of intelligence units. Modern countries have controlled this with different applications in the form of judicial control, parliamentary supervision, or ombudsman supervision, but there is no one-word control in this proposal. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are incomplete and not democratic because the regulations regarding the MIT Act do not include the control mechanisms. The Parliamentary Assembly of the European Union has stated that human rights violations may occur unless legal and constitutional guarantees are provided in accordance with the 1402 decision that domestic security services are not properly supervised, and thus recommending the introduction of a control mechanism in such matters to all member states. To transform intelligence services into democratic services, to decompress intelligence services, security policy must make sure that the executive and parliament performs the monitoring and monitoring function in order to transform it into a modern tool, but leaving this inspection only to the government is likely to cause abuse. The government wants to institutionalize the one-man system with this offer; the prime minister wants to give authority to the king. It's the absolute power that is intended for this offer, but remember, absolute power, uncontrollable power, is very dangerous. The world's political history is full of examples. Dear friends, while the judiciary is under control, social media is being silenced by Internet bans, steps are being taken to become an intelligence state with the MIT Law as a third leg. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bashir Atalay has made a speech yesterday saying, "We will correct these objectionable issues in the General Assembly." I hope that this will be corrected, and I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0184par0026	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0185par0030	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on the first part of the First Section of the Law Proposal to Change National Intelligence Service Act 563 rows, and I respectfully salute the General Assembly. The MIT was founded on July 22, 1965, after the transformation of the National Security Services institution, and was adopted on November 1, 1983, in accordance with Law 2937, which was adopted. It is impossible to describe the organization as a transparent institution. Because it also shows a lack of work on the organization. As often repeated in studies of intelligence agencies, such agencies have a way of working with privacy. It is clear that, combined with increasing powers, the possibility of intelligence activities contradicting human rights and legal laws will increase. Dear lawmakers, with the proposal of the law, a series of antidemocratic, universal law and anti-human rights practices are intended to be put into effect, which will investigate even the current situation regarding the duties and mechanisms of the National Intelligence Agency. A mission given to the MIT by the proposal has been described as "to carry out any duties given by the Council of Ministers regarding external security, the fight against terrorism and national security." Dear MPs, first of all, the mandates of the MIT and other intelligence units must be described in the legal regulations very clearly and strictly limited. For example, the statements such as "protecting the security of the state," "outland security," "national security," "fighting terrorism" are very broad and open to interpretation. This vague definition of duty includes possible activities that have not happened. Based on these statements, it's been possible, it's still possible, and it's made even more possible to condemn social opposition actions when asked to. Due to vague definitions, the powers of the Intelligence Agency have been put into place so far to exert pressure on the opposition, and it seems that the joy of criminalizing opponents will continue by gaining momentum. The field of intelligence units must be identified with clear statements and brought to limited content. Legal and institutional guarantees must be established to prevent the abuse of these powers against the opposition. Mr. President, it has also been given to the National Intelligence Agency to collect, record, and analyze information, document, information, information and data through the use of all technical intelligence, procedure, vehicle and systems in matters of cyber-security and anti-terrorism and international crime under the proposal of law. The OSCE's powers and mandates in the State Intelligence Service and National Intelligence Agency Act have been widely extended, leading to dangerous consequences for the protection of human rights for all citizens, especially political opponents. With this offer, the coverage and intervention area of the MIT is further expanded in violation of human rights. The privacy of personal data is not protected by legal regulations as a basic human right, only the protection of collected data. Maintaining the privacy of personal data should be considered a basic human right, and in this regard, limiting regulations should be made, not protecting the powers of the MIT and other intelligence agencies. Mr. President, the possibility of abuse of information has also made intelligence activities that should not be used against social and political opposition politically vulnerable. There is no way to bring a violation or violation of the rights and freedom of a person to the judiciary. A mechanism that connects the intelligence agency directly to the Prime Minister is being targeted. In this framework, mechanisms must be established for democratic control of the work and operations of the Intelligence Agency, including legislation, executive and judicial bodies, and civil society organisations. Legal guarantees should be provided that the agency's employees, such as the supply of information about political opponents, can refuse to follow government instructions that are unreasonable. Dear lawmakers, it is against the norms of the penal code that the members of the MIT cannot testify to the mission and activities of the MIT. The justice department wants to be left helpless in the face of such a sentence. To provide absolute immunity to an organisation that is directly sought to be subject to political power will make Turkey an intelligence state, which will bring a new blow to social peace. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, one of the regulations that have come forward in the proposal of the law is to ensure that the government and Kurdish movement and the officials of the Intelligence Service who participate in dialogues on behalf of the state are protected by legal armor within the framework of the resolution process. It should be our priority to establish a law to ensure lasting and undermining talks on the basis of the permanent institution of social peace and to ensure that the hope of peace flourishing in this land evolves into actual peace. Because the absence of such a climate is even more important, given the loss of opportunities that have been missed so far. Honorable lawmakers have yet to face the past in this country, yet there is no commission for truth and justice in this country, still state-owned gangs in this country have not answered to the public, and political authorities have not been able to account to these gangs.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0186par0045	Bravo, bravo!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0185par0046	While such a picture is available, the change in the MIT Law and the demand to be taken to a post-constitutional position of the MIT are a situation that puts the current political power and citizens at risk; it must be well understood. In the wake of December 17th corruption and bribery operations, amendments to the HSYK and National Education Laws, Internet censorship and, finally, the MIT Law that we are talking about together, it appears that the peace process, which is to be guaranteed, is not democracy, the rule of law, the power of human rights; it is the power to be secured. Trying to describe such a fact as normalization, a solution, or civilization is demagogue. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers we're discussing with are not acceptable in a democratic legal state to operate inside and out with the MIT Law Proposal, to have access to all personal information and to have the MIT excluded from judicial control. Besides, the government and society are the only ones dealing with the Kurdish problem, not the MIT or the state's organs. Therefore, Parliament is the address of steps that must be taken. The solution to the Kurdish problem may be possible with the implementation of universal principles of law. In this context, there is a dialectic connection between the solution of the Kurdish problem and Turkey's democratisation. Therefore, instead of bringing the country into an antidemocratic fan with a concern for strengthening power, immediate negotiations must be put on the legal basis, the Parliament must be integrated in the process of resolving all institutions, all antidemocratic laws and practices, particularly the Anti-Terror Law, which constitute a barrier to the establishment of a democratic and civil constitution. With these thoughts, I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0187par0052	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Faruk Bal will speak for both the group and for himself. So I'll give them 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0188par0056	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the bill we're discussing is contrary to the needs of democratic society and the essence of the parliamentary democratic system under two main topics. In terms of these two main values, I'd like to briefly talk about the principles of the law state and the market economy that it's raised on. The state of law is a state where every business and transaction the administration has done is subject to judicial supervision. The state of law is a state that is subject to balance and control mechanisms in the decisions and laws made by the legislature; it is a state that the executive body does, not by one man's will, but by national will. He has a power in the state of law that regulates, regulates, regulates, governance. In the 12 years of Justice and Development Party's rule, the legislature was subject to the will of one man, a phrase by the name of the biat culture came out, and therefore its laws and laws made by the law became AKP's will. This is incompatible with the state of law. The executive body, as it is, has become political enough to influence the outcome of elections from Prime Minister, Minister, Undersecretary to the bottom. The judicial body, along with the operations of December 17th, has entered into a turmoil, and has completely entered the perspective of the AKP's political control. On the other hand, besides the legal state, the most important feature of parliamentary democracy is the market economy. In AKP's twelve-year rule, non-profit capital is no longer a market economy based on increased assets, new ones, corruption, privatisations, tenders, and free enterprise that should be contained within a democratic system. Now, it's time for Turkey to be dragged into a new, new unknown by combining the rule of law with legislation, executive and judicial bodies, building a new force, and putting together the power of MIT on the market economy. Within this process, the public's sources of information have been politicalized, visual media have been introduced into a full antidemocratic process, with the firing of the authors of the press, and the virtual media ▪Twitter Mivit, YouTube mutup. Now, we are facing a problem in Turkey, where its institutions and institutions have been tampered with and its values have been tampered with, and that is the MSI Law, which the Justice and Development Party has brought, in its size, its size, its size, its size, its size, as a prisoner of a great fear, based on its self-preservation reflex. We know the origin of this MIT Law. December 17th, in the framework of December 25th operations, to cover up corruption, thefts, money laundering, gold smuggling, to cover up his evidence, to turn the cops who found them into a gang, to turn the prosecutors who found them into a gang, and to assign the MIT to the armed force in the framework of the armed forces while fighting against them in the form of a parallel state. That's the first goal. The second goal is to make up a cover, make up a cover, and get rid of the Supreme Court, along with Oslo and the Imran talks. My dear friends, we've come to the conclusion that Oslo and Imran talks... I'd appreciate it if you'd listen to me as a listening congressman. The conclusion, of course, is that Oslo and İmralı talks -- listen well here -- do not let the mothers cry in Turkey. The photo, which was taken out of the country by deception by the PKK, is this: it landed in some places in the Southeast District of Turkey, with its weapon, and landed in the village, with its gun. These men are armed by night, and have day cones, and threaten by night, and rule by day. What does he rule? 1) He collects taxes from citizens of the state of the Republic of Turkey. 2) Do not take the citizens of the Turkish Republic to the mountain under the name of the declaration, sending them to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). 3) The peacekeeping troops of citizens of the Republic of Turkey are conducting identity checks and martyrdom under the name of self-government. 4) I will decide the candidates in these areas. He says, "The will of the people is no longer in control, but he makes the will of the terrorist organization the ruler there. This one is named after the authorities of the BDP. The final elections are the choice to draw the border of this designated region. The final elections are the referendum of autonomy, the choice of autonomy around here. 3) It is the choice of leadership and freedom for the heavily imprisoned prisoner in İmralı, who was seated at his desk in negotiations which the AKP has legitimized. Your destination within this scope, of course, is the Supreme Court in the existing Constitution and the legal order. Abdullah Ocalan warned you, you are going to the Supreme Court, and I will save you. He said, "You have brought this law before the Veteran Assembly of the Republic of Turkey." That's not all you get with this law. You are violating the basic rights and freedoms of privacy, violating the rights and freedoms of the individual, violating the rights and freedoms of the citizens, violating the immunity of property, restricting freedom of expression, restricting freedom of speech, restricting freedom of press, restricting freedom of public information, restricting freedom of rights, restricting the freedom of rights and freedom of justice among citizens, violating the rights of the citizens, violating the law of equality of the citizens, and exposing the immunity of property of the property, dissoluting the freedom of expression, restricting the freedom of expression, restricting the freedom of the freedom of the press, restricting the freedom of public, restricting the freedom of the rights, restricting the freedom of the rights of the rights of the courts, threatening the rights of the rights of the courts, and dissolution of the constitution of the state, and dissoluting the state. Now, an understanding that has entered into such private life through this law, which has also given MIT (MIT) the powers that he has granted: he will receive the documents he wishes from the institution and the organization he wants; he will be sentenced to prison for up to three to four years, starting with those who have not given his own special laws. The prison that he wishes to enter, access, access, access, access, and access to the records of institutions, institutions, private institutions, computers, electronic information -- from three to four years to twelve years in prison -- is a threat to prison. He can ask for any technical equipment he wishes from any institution or organization, but he who does not, he will be sentenced to three to four years in prison, and he will be sentenced to 12 years in prison. So, if this MIT asks the military for a plane as a technical device, asks the military for a tank, asks the military for a missile, what does it do with them? He'll operate with these. How's he gonna do the operation with these? He'll do it as an internal and external operation. My dear friends, in this case, the MIT is becoming a third entity next to the two legal institutions that both national law and international law recognise. The state police do legitimate domestic security services. On what? According to the Constitution, according to the legislation you have. He is tried in the state of law when he goes outside of the Constitution and regulations. Again, the army does its assigned tasks according to international legislation and local legislation, fighting if necessary. What does he do with war? He does it according to the law of war. What does he do with war? To achieve the goals the government has set, he does so under those limits. What does he do if he does something wrong? If he does, he'll be tried in domestic law and international law. This is MIT, but other than that, according to this bill. The MIT can do anything; it operates internal operations, it operates external operations, it wants tanks from the military, it wants a cannon, it wants a plane, it wants a missile, it hits its head, it does some work on the outside operation. Judicial? No judgment. This is the mission of the MIT. When you say, the flowing waters have calmed down. This has been settled according to Turkey, gentlemen, and is it by international law? No. It's unsettled by international law. Mr. Secretary, you're going to prosecute Turkey, Mr. Secretary, in connection with the weapons you've dispatched with 2,000 trucks, Mr. Secretary, and you will. This law won't save you. With this law, you create evidence for Turkey's international conflict, for its conflict, for its judgment. There is no such opening in any country's MIT law. Yeah, every country has a secret operation. In international law, it's called the teacher's-............................................................................................. This operation is classified, it's not explained by the law. By giving you the authority to operate with the law, I assume these responsibilities as the state of the Republic of Turkey. You call them the Republic of Turkey, and you declare them to the world, not just Turkish citizens. You can jump off a cliff like this to save yourselves, but you can't drag Turkey into a abyss. With this, you will turn Turkey into a country that will be put to rest in policies against the Iranian embargo you're implementing in the next period, in Syrian policies you've implemented, to be pushed aside, to be addressed, to be judged, and ultimately to be judged. Come, be judged in the Supreme Court, and let Turkey have a word that it can say out as a law state, at least as a country that has dealt with this matter in internal law. My dear friends, in this framework, the MIT, not only with those risks, but also with those powers vested in the MIT, is at risk to anyone who stands in the way of the AKP (AKP) in Turkey. It's in everyone... the first task the Prime Minister will give by the Council of Ministers in the first place, do not dismiss the evidence found during the December 17th operation: devalue them, discredit them, destroy them; plus, make a gang of them, make a terrorist organization, in its name, make a war against them, and in the parallel state, fight against them with dignity. He will not be enough, but he will eliminate those who touch his foot. What are those who touch the foot of a power, an authoritarian power, a dictatorial power? 1) Press is the fourth force is the press. The press is under threat. The press will be threatened by the government's body, MIT. 2) On the other hand, political parties. You will enter the lair of every political party -- as you call it -- and political parties will cease to be the essential element of democracy and become the institutions operating on a diseased democracy. 3) You will enter the den of NGOs with your testimony. What will you find there? You will find a force, the power of opposition to power; you will enter to destroy it. 4) You will enter companies you cannot enter. You smell so good about money. You're either going to go in and turn them into allies, or you're going to make them into friends, or you're going to try to destroy their assets somehow. My dear friends, the summation of this situation is that Turkey is coming out of the democratic parliamentary system, Turkey is becoming a candidate state. He also received the example from Syria when he called it "Esad" and later learned to practice it after describing his brother as an enemy. This is the way Turkey is headed, the way of the State of Al Communications, the way of the intelligence state. The way the Veteran Assembly opens such a path means that it will give up all democratic rights acquired in the history of the republic. It's so serious, it's so important, it's so important, and it's so valuable. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts and feelings, I ask the High Council not for fingers, but for a rational will to be granted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0189par0096	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0190par0097	Mr. President, the secretary has accused our group of...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0188par0098	I didn't say your group, I said PKK, Sýzý Bey.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0190par0099	Sir, you have been critical of the BDP Group's attitude towards identifying candidates and self-management. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0188par0100	No, I said PKK.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0191par0101	Now, look, there's no problem there, but I didn't say that now. I didn't say that. When I was told that, I meant PKK. You said, you didn't say BDP.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0190par0102	He said "BDP" (BDP). The PKK didn't participate in the elections here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0191par0103	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0190par0106	Mr. President, thank you. Yeah, well, we have to solve our problems. So, now, you have a PKK reality here, a Kurdish reality and you have to figure it out. Whether the MIT sees or the government's specific units, we have to discuss these problems by talking to them. Look, we're sitting here in our seats, but if Mr. Ocalan, in a 40-foot area between concrete and iron piles, has stopped the blood, if there's been no bloodshed in this land for a year, if there's no death, blood and tears, we have to go back to him and thank him, not insult him. Now, as a result of talks over a year, if there is a climate of peace in this country, we would be very happy to do so. In order to make this bigger, we also make an effort to bring democratic politics to life. Look, you'll find out what kind of democratic activity this Peace and Democracy Party is in that actually teaches you about identifying candidates that you don't like. The Peace and Democracy Party, not with threats, but with its people, makes the first choice by throwing aside the Political Parties Act and Election Law, which their generals brought together, and making the first choice with thousands of people. That's not enough, it's what we call self-government, to distribute Ankara's cumbersome structure to all Turkey. So what we call self-government is applied to all four parts of the world, in 56 countries, and countries are not divided. But since you are fed by this system, no rules, no rules, no rules, no blood, no violence, no matter what, let nothing happen to our powers, our seats, the poor Anatolian children die... for him, we will have some conscience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this regard, I think we should appreciate people who have worked hard in the process. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0192par0115	Mr. orator, let the blood flow, let there be violence. He used a sentence that enshrined our party.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0190par0116	I didn't say "party."
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0193par0117	I couldn't listen to Mr. Canikli because...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0194par0118	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0195par0119	You'll give it to me from now on.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0193par0120	One second... and I promise you, Mr. Honey, I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Secretary has requested a speech, so...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0196par0122	Okay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0193par0123	So, no... now I promise not to tease Mr. Bal.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0197par0124	No, you can give it to Canikli; I won't give it to him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0193par0125	No, I can only give him two minutes. No rights, no law... Now, Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0198par0128	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the National Movement Party, accepts every member of our nation as a sacred asset and sees each member as a sacred relic of God. That's why it's a party that embraces the idea that no one should be discriminated against. It is then a party that has established a thousand years of brotherhood, not only is it determined to live on the common values that we have met, met, met, and acquired over a thousand years, but it is also determined to carry them back to the next thousand years. In this scope, Turkey, yes, has a southeast problem. This problem is a regional problem, it's about climate, it's about geography; it's about economics, it's about social development, it's about cultural development, but it can never be considered an ethnic problem, and to solve this problem, Turkey doesn't need a solution to a person who has taken the lead in terrorism. So, as the National Movement Party, we are proud of the fact that the blood that flows is insufferable when the law of the brotherhood should be maintained, of course, but we will continue to oppose, of course, in the framework of the unitary and national state, the collection of taxes of the terrorist organization in Turkey's Southeast Anatolian Region, the gathering of troops, the establishment of civil forces.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0199par0132	Mr. President, I'm asking you to move from my position to the transcripts. It's a Kurdish problem, a right, law and justice issue, not a climate problem. Could it be a 90-year-old fight from the climate? So think, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I'm leaving the Kurdish issue to the public conscience of Turkey to consider a problem with such suffering a climate problem.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0200par0134	Thank you. In the name of the government...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0136	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0200par0137	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0138	In the speech of Mr. Bal....to our government and to our Prime Minister..
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0200par0139	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0142	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Look, for our government and for our Prime Minister, he's in a dictatorial trend. You know best that none of these or similar statements reflect the truth, that it's all just slander.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0144	You know that's what happened.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0145	You certainly do.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0146	You know it, you know it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0147	That's not how the press works in a country where dictatorships weigh heavily on authoritarian tendencies, for God's sake! Is this how these arguments, these conflicts happen?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0203par0148	What kind of work?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0149	It's not working. Hello, Fatih!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0150	So in the most advanced countries in the world, it's an unintended freedom environment...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0151	It doesn't work that way, of course.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0204par0152	Is there a press, Canikli?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0153	Yeah, that's right. In fact, Turkey has an environment of freedom to push the boundaries, and there are many.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0154	Didn't the Conqueror Altailı tell you that we're all under pressure?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0205par0155	Did we build the Conqueror? Have fear of God.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0156	There are more than there are in any period, I'll point out, there are more than there are in any period.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0157	Of course, didn't the Conqueror say Altailı, that we're all under pressure? Have mercy, have mercy! Oh, my God, this is so weird!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0158	I mean, but if someone wants to see dictatorial tendencies, they can look back. There are many examples of these in the past, in the past, look, there are countless examples. Turkey is like a museum in that sense, there are riches, so relax about it, you see. You see too much, you don't have to go too far.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0206par0159	Hello, Fatih!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0160	I made you listen from here; I made you listen from here; I made you hear the voice of the Prime Minister; I made you listen from here; I made you hear the voice of the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0161	But today, in America, in England, in Germany...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0162	Yes, yes, freedom
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0207par0164	Only you have freedom, only you!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0165	...a liberalisation environment, an environment for determining people's thoughts and lifestyles, exists in Turkey; yes, Turkey does. This shows the level of development of Turkish democracy, and this is a development that has occurred in the last 12 years, mainly; no matter what you say, that's the result. So, look at it this way.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0166	Yeah, that's it, that's it, you're right; in 12 years, something incredible has come up!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0201par0167	Look, now, dear friends, didn't the MIT operate outside before? He wasn't? He was doing it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0208par0168	We don't know.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0169	So why are you making the law now?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0209par0170	Illegal...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0210par0171	So, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, MIT wasn't operating outside? He was doing it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0202par0172	Then why are you making this law?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0209par0173	Illegal...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0210par0174	What are we doing? We're making it more transparent now, from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0211par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0210par0177	We're trying to do this by receiving approval from the High Council, where the will of the nation has been granted.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0212par0178	You're just making him the Prime Minister's MIT.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0211par0179	Mr. Canicli, thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0213par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0211par0186	Sir?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0213par0187	I have to answer in that regard... after Mr. Secretary, he said, "It's a lie."
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0211par0188	Now that I've invited you, then I'll listen to you, and we'll see if there's any bullying.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0214par0189	No hard feelings, Mr. President, I didn't say anything to anyone, so I told him to look back.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0211par0190	Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0191	Dear President, Congressmans, first I salute you all. Today, of course, April 10th, the 169th anniversary of our police force, congratulations. I wish you many anniversaries as someone who's been happy working with them for a while. Other than that, of course, we've had a big election, it's the first session since the election. Good luck with these elections, and good luck with all our parties, all our chosen friends, our local executives. Yesterday, we sat at the head of our Prime Minister as the EC PARTI, for four hours -- we had prepared a report, we had an election co-ordinating strategy team, he worked at my presidency for two months -- we reviewed our campaign, review the pros, pros, cons, consequences of the election; in fact, we saw the very important consequences of this election -- for ourselves.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0216par0195	There are others who haven't, Minister.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0196	Now, of course, I wish that all parties here, everyone, would have a good analysis of the outcome of this election...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0216par0197	There are those who don't.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0198	And at the very least, in the post-election talks here, considering their speech just before the election, they're going to have to make some changes.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0216par0199	They don't, Minister.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0217par0200	Tell them about MIT.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0201	But I see there's nothing there. They'll do a lot of damage, if they do that, if they don't analyze the election well.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0218par0202	We analyzed it very well, don't worry.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0219par0203	They're doomed to be defeated.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0204	I listened especially quietly. None of us, the last speaker, spoke for 15 minutes, no word from anywhere. I beg of you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0220par0205	And no one talked in their pocket!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0221par0206	At least take your hand out of your pocket!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0207	What the last speaker said here is all his own opinion, his sophisticated thoughts, his imagination, we don't agree with any of what he says, I reject all of it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0222par0208	And you're not talking about the proposed bill, you're talking about something else.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0209	None of what you say about our government or our party or even the MIT Law reflects the truth. Neither does the existing MIT Law reflect the present offer, nor do I express it to the record.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0222par0210	They must have given you something else, not MIT!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0211	Of course, December 17th... you all spoke for two months in your province, in your district, in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0223par0212	No?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0224par0213	We saw it with our own eyes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0214	Look, look, take a good look at the people's response.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0225par0216	Judgement will answer him, judgment.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0217	Our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0226par0218	When we ask for a vote, we will commit corruption. Did you say?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0227par0219	Is that why you got two million votes down?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0220	But listen to me when I'm talking.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0227par0221	Watch your language and let's hear it!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0215par0222	Mr. President, look, I've heard it all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0228par0223	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0229par0224	People have never investigated corruption. But you, we're going to be corrupt, vote accordingly. Say, OK, people vote that way. Tell them we're going to be corrupt, so vote accordingly.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0228par0225	Mr. Serindağ, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0229par0226	Then let him do so.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0230par0227	Look, I've listened to you, please listen, please listen.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0231par0228	Don't wave your finger! What a finger you're waving at!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0232par0229	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0233par0230	We're not here to listen to party propaganda, so stop party propaganda.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0234par0231	You're the Minister, tell the truth.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0232	Now, in or out of our party, our prime minister told us about our party at the first group meeting, and we'll ask the wrong-doer's account.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0233par0233	You asked how many, how many? Has anyone ever done anything wrong?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0234	He'll be here next week, and we'll set up a commission here, and you'll see, but all of this is not being won by negative politics or black campaigns or anything like that, and Turkey has seen him, and you've seen him most of all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0236par0236	Let's not talk about it!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0237par0237	Let us know if it's won or not!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0238	Now, let me tell you about the law: further criticisms are personal comments. The MIT does everything. There is no such thing. The MIT is an elite institution of our republic working within the law. He's gonna get what he wants from the army, guns... look, they're confusing, we're gonna open up the stuff and we're gonna read it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0238par0239	In the Law of Arms, you are authorizing the MIT to import weapons, which is your arrangement!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0240	Sir, as we said yesterday, we're... This is an institution of our government, but it's up to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0239par0241	You're politicalizing it!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0242	The esteemed MPs depend on the MIT Prime Minister. The Constitution determines that, the law determines that. Three institutions cannot connect to another minister; one, Turkish Armed Forces, Chief of Staff; two, MIT; three, Secretary General of the National Security Board. I mean, it's always been like this.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0240par0243	Mr. Secretary, we learned that in national safety lessons!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0244	He's getting attached to the Prime Minister. There's no such thing, my friends! Why are we cheating on ourselves, guys? So parallel structure, something... we know the parallel structure, the two parties loved it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0241par0246	Yeah, you've been together 12 years, 12 years!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0247	I hope you've seen good in the fields, in the election!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0242par0248	You didn't bring them?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0249	Yeah, I wouldn't have talked if I hadn't been told, but in front of these conversations, look, I...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0243par0250	You've forgotten how much you've been crying!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0244par0251	Mr. Ozturk, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0252	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yesterday's speeches here, yesterday's reports, I highlighted them in the evening.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0243par0253	You've forgotten how much you've been crying, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0244par0254	Mr. Ozturk, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0255	If I told you what the spokesmen said... we'd say it here when they say it, sorry.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0243par0256	You've forgotten you can't stand the longing!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0257	Now, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are not an MIT legal law enforcement agency. In this context, the intelligence data collected by the National Intelligence Agency is to be taken into account in the fight against terrorism and to support decisionmakers in strategic matters. For example, support for the Armed Forces by the National Intelligence Agency is very important. At this rate, the National Intelligence Agency is narrowing down its structure and focusing on activities abroad. In the country, terror and espionage in the border and coastal areas is the intelligence of all operations carried out by the Armed Forces on the two. The closest he's working at the moment and the most information he's given are the Armed Forces.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0245par0258	Did the Armed Forces send 2,000 trucks?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0259	And we, dear friends, have known these things for twelve years, we've been implementing them, we've been the government for twelve years, and I've known all these areas as Vice Prime Minister in charge of security, security coordination, and I've known all these areas for a while as a person who's been assigned to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0246par0260	I can see where this is coming from!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0261	Look, I advise you, please examine two or three countries from European countries; compare them with the articles of this law, and I demand it. I mean, hitting our own national institution on the ground like this, and calling it a law is not going to get anybody anything.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0247par0262	You can't be trusted, you!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0263	Now, here, I said yesterday, we're continuing the commission's work, the audit commission, the House will be given an important authority. Everyone's already trying to steal from politics, we're trying to give politics more roles, we want the role of the Grand Assembly to grow. And for that, this great House will oversee our country's intelligence and security. On Tuesday, we'll bring in our new material, a new supply of matter.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0248par0264	We know what roles you're in, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0235par0265	This is a very important development on behalf of our political institution, on behalf of the High Assembly, and I'd like to express it. Here, to sum it up, my dear President, the esteemed MPs, there's nothing out of the ordinary here except the law.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0249par0267	Is there a law?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0250par0268	There's no law!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0249par0269	Is there a law, a law?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0270	I beg you, some of the materials will be discussed today, read the existing law, at least from another country. If you want, my friends brought it from the MIT, so let's give you samples, copies of all European countries, and read from there.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0252par0271	The state institution of European countries...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0253par0272	Is that the way the House is informed?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0273	Now, here's...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0252par0274	There won't be one corruption in Europe.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0254par0275	Is there a minister who does so much work in European countries?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0276	Sir, the Prime Minister will give you every assignment... Look, friends, it's wrong.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0254par0277	Is there a minister in Europe who's been in this much doubt?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0255par0278	Mr. Ozturk, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0279	The Prime Minister's office can provide security, anti-terrorism, national security on these three issues, not a task outside the law, please read that clause. Sir, every operation given by the Prime Minister's office... there's no concept of operation in this bill or in this existing law, friends, nor in any of the proposals we've brought, nor in any of the proposals we've made.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0256par0281	You're a college teacher. You're still on the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0257par0282	All kinds of tasks. How will we know, how will we know?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0283	So, please, we'd appreciate it if we could have some talks to contribute while they're being discussed. There's been some very good reviews on the commission, see, we're replacing them with motions. A deputy of ours says that the judge is excluded from his authority. Guys, is that a thing? No one can be excluded from jurisdiction in Turkey.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0258par0286	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0259par0287	What are we voting for? That must be something else you've got, Mr. Secretary! Did they give you something else?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0251par0288	He's only being given to the Supreme Court.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0260par0290	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0261par0291	Mr. President, I have a request, sir.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0260par0292	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0261par0293	Now, Mr. Canikli described what I said as slander, and Mr. Secretary, his imagination, I disagree, I refuse. I'm asking you to combine them.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0260par0294	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0262par0295	Mr. Secretary still hasn't stepped off the college bench, and he thinks we're his students. If he could just get off the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0263par0296	Mr. Secretary is saying something else, I don't think he's read the proposal or read it, he doesn't understand.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0262par0297	If he could just get off the stand.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0263par0298	What you're saying isn't written here, it's something else written here.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0301	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we are not the only ones who are authorising the leadership of the Justice and Development Party under the Prime Minister's leadership...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0265par0302	I work very well, like a student.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0263par0303	We're not the naive ones, you're the square one!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0304	...the whole world is expressing its evidence. I'm going to talk about three. Turkey has problems with visual media. The Prime Minister has created this problem with the lines of Alo Fatih. He decides what will be broadcast and what will not be broadcast. The written press -- that's the number of journalists' Union -- has been expelled from 200 columnists, reporters and co-ordinators, and Turkey has fallen from the 180 countries of the world to the 154th place since Afghanistan. And then there's the virtual press, and it's a little more comfortable here. The Prime Minister said he'd shut it down. He said he'd shut it down. It's not authoritarian, but I've expressed it. Now, as for Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary, he said, "It's a dream product, it's his own opinion." I'm going to read the articles of the law one by one, and we're going to decide whether it's a dream or a reality. MIT will have relations, including PKK terrorist organisation -- which is understood in Article 3 (a) joke. So the oslo talks will be cleared. Two, in connection with their duties under this law, the public institution, the institution, public institutional professions, banks, corporate individuals all will have to give information and documents whenever the MIT wants. What country in the world does that exist in, Minister?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0266par0308	They've all got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've got it, they've
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0309	Moving on. In the same article (c) joke, the MIT can access all statements relating to the investigations, any information or document, so it can enter into the judiciary. Moving on, I'm jumping. The MIT, including pay phones, says it can listen to the undersecretary's permission, without being subject to any law concerning intelligence. Moving on. In the 7th article... you said it was about the judge. Listen here, Mr. Minister, I'm reading the law to you that the prosecutors of the Republic will contact the MIT when they have received any reports concerning their members regarding their mission and activities, or if they find out about such a situation. No legal action can be done on the understanding or documentation that the subject is related to the mission and activities of the MIT. What does that mean? MIT was caught smuggling weapons with arms traffickers, MIT was caught killing men, MIT was caught smuggling drugs, MIT was caught smuggling drugs. Someone from the MIT will say, "This is about MIT's activities. The prosecutor will do nothing. It's not an intervention in the judiciary, it's not a limitation of the power of the judge, it's a law, what is it, Minister? We continue: if he does not give the required information, the documents, an institution, the company, the bank, etcetera, and so forth, he will be sentenced from four to twelve years in prison. What legal state does that exist in? It's called the entity state, which is called Al Communications, and it's a transition to Syrian-like Middle East democracy.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0267par0313	Fear God, fear God, for the Commune...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0314	If you're talking about democracy ahead, it's the law not to go forward, but to move back into intelligence and authoritarian governance.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0268par0316	Thank you, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0267par0317	Do you believe what you're saying, for God's sake?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0318	Read the law.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0267par0319	You don't believe me, do you?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0264par0320	If you don't believe me, read the law.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0267par0321	You don't believe it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0322	Mr. President, I want your word. An answer...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0270par0323	Wait a second. Now...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0325	He's doing the wrong thing I said, so I'd like to make a statement for a minute.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0270par0326	Now, I promise not to tease you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0327	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0270par0328	You will come to the stand, Mr. Secretary. You have two minutes.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0329	Let me do something from here, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0270par0330	It's not like that. Or I'll give you a minute according to the 60th article, one of the two.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0331	Oh, yeah? Okay.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0271par0332	Obey the Civil Code, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0333	Thank you, I'm sorry, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0272par0334	Yeah, I'm trying to, you know, apply the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0338	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I couldn't make it clear because I didn't have time for one thing; I'd like to explain it once and for all once again after Mr. Bal has said it here.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0273par0340	No, no teasing now, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0341	While we're running the solution process...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0273par0342	No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0343	While we're running the solution process...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0273par0344	There was no mention of bullying. It wasn't about teasing, it was about something else.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0345	But you're being rude!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0274par0346	Mr. Ali Tallırmak, that's my savings. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0348	That's a shame!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0274par0349	Please come in, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0275par0350	Reboot the Minister's time, Mr. President!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0351	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we don't conduct the process of solutions, we don't conduct any phases in secret; we conduct them within legitimate ground, we conduct them in law.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0276par0352	Which law is that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0353	So he's reading a clause here, there's no PKK here, he can talk to organizations. I can't...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0276par0354	He can contact structures that threaten national security. He says!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0355	There used to be, and now there is, and we're running a clear solution process. We are, look, we don't hold back.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0277par0356	I thought you said you were a bastard!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0276par0357	You said the interviewers were assholes!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0358	We did what we did. We're a government that's taking risks.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0278par0359	You said you're an interviewing bastard. What else are you going to say?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0269par0360	If there is a problem in our country, we show courage; just because he says it, we are not afraid to take matters into our own hands. We're conducting a solution process, the MIT is meeting with the organisation, and we're meeting with the BDP; we're running the political dimension, and it's going to continue, if necessary, and the MIT will meet with other organisations. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0279par0363	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0280par0364	Mr. Canikli, let me hear you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0279par0365	In the speech of Mr. Honey, our government...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0281par0366	Too bad, too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0282par0367	Keep in touch, keep going!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0281par0368	You've made an asshole out of people who work for you! You've made an asshole out of people who work for you!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0283par0369	Yeah, it's straight, Mr. Ali...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0281par0370	You've made assholes out of people who work with you so you don't have to take the shit yourself!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0284par0371	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0283par0372	Mr. Ali, Mr. Ali...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0281par0373	You've made an asshole out of all the employees!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0284par0374	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0281par0375	You call the people who work for you, you son of a bitch!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0285par0376	You're the bastard!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0284par0378	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0285par0379	I'm returning it, you're the bastard!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit05spe0284par0380	Mr. Secretary, please... I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0284par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here, the government is here. Mr. Tanju Özcan, who has asked for a personal word on chapter one.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0286par0009	Mr. President, I, on behalf of myself, have made a promise to express my thoughts on chapter one. But there's a very important and warm development, and I'd like to share my thoughts about it. A constitutional crime is being committed in Bolu. In order to close a 26-year-old newspaper, which the mayor of Bolu, who had just been elected a few days ago, couldn't control the publishing policy, despite the court's decision to stop running it, these activities are still under way, despite the governor's efforts. I say that I have cursed this incident from the stand of the great Turkish nation. I'd like to share with you the fact that I expect AKP officials to do the same. Yes, lawmakers, we're all watching the talks here, together, about this important law. I, as a member of the Internal Affairs Commission, also had a chance to follow up on a significant portion of these talks in the Commission. First of all, I have to say that Mr. Secretary's behavior today was similar to his behavior during the Commission talks. Besides, I was surprised by a word from the Minister. Mr. Secretary, we've just had the opportunity to see, and the government or AKP Group has made a motion to change almost every clause, and all of these are close to the full amendment proposals, which, when the commission was on the agenda, were the issues brought up by members of the Commission, but Mr. Minister came out here, and he said, "This is not the government bill." He said, as if he had never seen this proposal prepared by our two AKP MPs before. As the commission discussed this proposal, he entered an attitude as if he did not live there, representing the government. I'm asking you: does the Minister want to play good cop-bad cop with this attitude, or is he selling out two of his friends -- or is he making fun of the intelligence, intelligence of the lawmakers in these talks? We need to find the answer to that question. The Minister was present as a representative of the government when this proposal was discussed in the Commission, and he listened to all these criticisms, but it seems he either ignored it or didn't understand what was being said. We also expressed then, Mr. Minister, that if this law were to pass this way, if this change were to pass this way, the MIT would become one of the most controversial intelligence organizations in the world; the state of the Republic of Turkey would become a state of communication; the National Intelligence Service would become the government's intelligence agency when the state's intelligence agency. We said, "We have explained this." There are statements that are not in line with the technique of law. We have said these things over and over, but we have suggestions today, as if those talks had not happened. Yesterday -- they just brought these proposals -- in fact, many of the things that we have said today have been accepted by giving them these proposals. I will also express my views on the proposal of the law in Article 2. However, from the beginning of the negotiations, Mr. Minister Bashir Atalay was here, and you were very surprised by his tone, I see. Perhaps it was the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey that a minister publicly insulted a congressman, and as a result, I condemn the Minister's not to be condemned, Mr. President. We can't possibly accept such a thing.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0287par0015	No, I wanted the things. They will, so we'll talk.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0286par0016	I'd also like to express to you that I don't think it's appropriate for the Minister to speak as if he were a speaker in coffee.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0288par0017	Don't you want him to talk about the election?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0286par0018	I say I expect the AKP group's deputy presidents to warn him, too. That's not gonna happen. Mr. Minister -- obviously he has a special problem, he's upset about something -- is trying to take all his anger away from members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There's no way to accept it, there's no way to digest it as a Turkish Republic MP; it's not possible for us to see it as a ruling party group. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0289par0021	Thank you. There is a motion on the first part of the proposal, according to Article 72 of the Civil Code: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Your bid is number 563. We'll continue the negotiations on the department according to Article 72 of Internal Affairs, supply and offer. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Ali Özgündüz Binnaz Earth Free Special Ahmet Toptaş Mahmut Tanal Negotiations are recommended. The motion...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0290par0036	There's enough for a meeting...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit06spe0289par0037	There's a need for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Dirt, Mr. Sugar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Special, Mr. Özcan, Mr. Young, Mr. Önal, Mr. Acar, Mr. Haberal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Sülturk, Mr. Kültür, Mr. Korturk, Mr. Sarıbaş. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0289par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the 72nd article of the Interior Charter, the meeting was not enough before the vote of Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi and his friends. Now I'm going to do the roll call again. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The commission is here. The government is here. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now I'm going to go with the question-answer process. I'll read it from the list. I'd appreciate it if our friends got into the system. Mr. Türkoglu, Mr. Genç, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Acar, Mr. Longırmak, Mr. Özcan. I'll give you my word according to this order. If the system can be hacked... Yes, Mr. Special...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0291par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. There are, of course, many questions to be asked in such an important law, but it's impossible to ask a normal question when you see Mr. Secretary sitting in the position of answering the question again. During the day, he insulted us lawmakers, using an extremely tense, inappropriate style for a minister. As a medic, I recommend a sugar check first. I condemn his attitude, his attitude, his attitude towards Congress and lawmakers. No wise man will ask such a question. I cannot find the words of a minister who defends it, rather than being insulted by the Parliament enough to express it. I'm very sorry to have witnessed the painting just now, and I'm asking you to apologize to the House, not to some Minister of State who has a little political decency.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0289par0022	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0292par0023	Mr. President, thank you. I wanted to ask you a question, and I wanted to know some things about this proposal that I'm curious about. However, I think it would be healthier not to ask questions because of the answers we received from the Minister and because of the Minister's attitude in your general question-answer process. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0293par0026	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0294par0027	Thank you. I don't find it important to ask an MIT agency to kill people who are not in any of the world's MITs, who are disrespectful enough to come out here and defend the powers of a democratic country that are not at any MIT to kill people, who are not here to defend them. And I strongly protest against him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0293par0029	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0295par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not possible to ask the minister questions and get answers, but I'll ask you this, Mr. Secretary, you did the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I wonder which country's Home Office did you do? So you're saying that a parallel state is a gang. Were they or were they not present in your time? Were you or were you not involved in this? If so, whatever legal state you're looking at now, it's in law that you get a sentence for aiding and abetting. If there's a gang, if there's a gang state, I believe you should be tried as Interior Minister Bashir Atalay for aiding and abetting. And second of all, there's a National Intelligence Agency in the country, an undersecretary of this, and his steps are reflected in the public eye. Do you find it correct that the head of a national intelligence agency that can't even run a truck is still in office? What kind of intelligence agency is this?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0296par0033	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0297par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. In our talks since yesterday, I give up my question because I can't bear to ask a minister who doesn't take the questions and criticisms of all opposition speakers and ignores them all, and I condemn the Minister's attitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0298par0037	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0299par0038	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you, if you know, and if you don't, thank you very much. The sledgehammer, Military Espionage, Ergenekon cases came up in court, and in many cases, people were found to be branded because of their ethnic identity, their religion, their name, their birthplace. Again, in recent months, it has been discovered that the examinations of inspectors have been marked by the head of the Finance Ministry's Tax Control Board. A man whose father's name is Ali Haydar turned out to be on the red list of Kurdish, Alevi, nationalists. I wonder who did this. Tell me if you know, if you don't know, I don't want to ask the Minister. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0300par0041	Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0301par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have not answered the question I just asked you, I repeat: The National Intelligence Service has filed a report in April 2013 on the relations of some ministers with Reza Zarrab, which is the issue that the government will be in a difficult position if their relations with the ministers are disclosed, and this report is not denied. Has there been any action on this report? Did you or did you not process this report because it was a parallel structure? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0302par0045	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0303par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I strongly condemn the attack on our Republican People's Party's President, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu. This is not just a planned attack on our president, but on the entire CHP organization and democracy. The Minister says MIT will not be given the mandate except for the current duties listed in the following titles, the 4th article of Law 2937. (ÇT/TK) Now you're ruling it out. However, the limitation of this authority was placed here to prevent abuse of authority, to prevent arbitrary use of authority. Now that this clause has been removed, I'm asking you: what measures do you intend to prevent the National Intelligence Agency, the Prime Minister or the politicians from abusing it? How is that predicted in this law? How do you control it? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0304par0050	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0305par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. From 2010 to today, in counterintelligence, how many changes have been made at the level of office head and deputy undersecretary? When was the last time anything changed? Thank you, it's something I care about a lot.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0306par0054	Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0307par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, at this stage, I'm not inclined to ask Mr. Secretary a question. But I have an idea. I'd like to tell you about him about a year and a half ago, when a Minister of the Court insulted a member of the Court -- when he was sitting on the left side of the Court -- looking at the arm of the broken Minister, Mr. Kamer Young, he was fine. He reminded again today that he had lost his human feelings enough to say, Mr. Secretary. That's why I'm condemning the Minister, and I'm saying that I still have no qualms about him sitting in that Ministry seat.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0306par0057	Dear Light...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0308par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in your opinion, do you have a clear conscience at the coming point of the project that you have implemented as the destruction of the state of the Republic of Turkey? Are you happy to make history as a minister who brought Turkey to the point of division? Thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0309par0061	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0310par0062	How dare he answer, Mr. President?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0311par0064	What a face you have! What a face you have!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0312par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0313par0067	How dare he answer?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0314par0068	Don't you dare, don't you dare!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0315par0069	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please... He's lying to the MPs...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0316par0071	Do you have a face? Do you have a face? Do you have a face?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0315par0072	Congressmans, please... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0317par0074	He can't sit and talk in front of this House. It's all a lie.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0318par0075	Shut up!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0317par0076	Ruining the Republic regime...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0319par0077	Mr. President, is there such an app?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0320par0078	Mr. Young, please, I beg you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0317par0079	How dare you come here!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0319par0080	How dare you? How dare you?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0321par0081	He's just showing off.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0322par0082	Please, Mr. Young...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0323par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0324par0084	The basic rights and freedoms...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0322par0085	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0323par0086	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0324par0087	What rights do you come here with? You are an enemy to this people, and you are an enemy to the people of Ataturk.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0322par0088	Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0324par0089	Sir, I mean...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0325par0090	Madam Secretary, I congratulate you on your attitude. That's what they look like.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0324par0091	Yeah, well, you can't just sit around with a guy who's been told so much.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0326par0092	Mr. Young, please, I beg you...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0324par0093	But he's lying to us.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0326par0094	I'm asking you, I'm asking you... Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0327par0096	Mr. President, you're not warning me in proportion to the attack.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0328par0097	Man, you got some manners.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0326par0098	Please, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0327par0099	He's still attacking, and you're still asking for it. Please give me a proper warning with the attack.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0329par0100	Everyone knows who said those words. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0330par0103	I know you too. What about the mole, the mole!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0329par0104	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0331par0105	Mr. President, ask me again! Ask me again! Ask me again, please!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0329par0106	Let's close it if you want.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0332par0107	I'm asking you, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0329par0108	Mr. President, this can't happen!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0333par0109	But you don't give a proper warning.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0334par0110	Sir, let him continue, Mr. Secretary, let him continue.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0111	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0336par0112	That can't happen, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0337par0113	What happened to the mole, mole, tell me!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0114	I'll finish your promise, just a second. Now, I've never spoken to a congressman in the form of an order. I didn't speak to anyone or anyone in the shape of Shus, fucking situr, get up, get up. So I'm asking you. I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0338par0116	That's what I'm saying, you don't give a proper warning with the attack.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0117	I'm asking the gentleman, and I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0339par0118	For ordering other vice presidents...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0119	But as a result, you follow the request, you don't follow it, it's your business. Since I can't get up and come down here and pick you up and chase you, so...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0340par0120	But you can hit there!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0121	I mean, look, I'm just trying to keep this coven without a fight, without noise. You served here, Mr. Fatih.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0340par0122	Yeah, that's right.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0341par0123	Our right to live is at stake.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0124	I mean, you know best what conditions we're in. So I've never spoken to a congressman in the form of an order - whether he sits here or sits there -- I've never spoken to him, I won't speak to him.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0342par0125	That attitude that made you who you are.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0126	For everyone, but that's true. So, of course, I'll ask you, you'll obey, you won't, it's about you. My job is to keep the peace.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0343par0127	They're used to taking orders, Mr. President, so they do things by order.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0128	If I can't, then the administration's in charge. Since I can't get in and separate it, I'll have to ask.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0344par0129	By God, the head of management is no one's law enforcement, so please give it up.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0335par0130	Now I'm rebooting the Minister's promise. Please, Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0132	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear friends, I am a very calm, humble person who lives his life. I don't insult anyone, and I respect people's rights, their law. But if they say so, let's get these transcripts out, see what they've talked about here, why we had to tell them, please. Otherwise, I have no intention of hurting any congressman. If I'm wrong like that, I take it back. I take it back. I don't have that kind of thing, but if we're gonna talk about style here, it connects everyone, not just the Minister. Being a opposition MP doesn't give you the right to insult someone who exceeds the limits of criticism. We'll all defend each other's rights, but if there's a line, if there's an insult, let us, we'll protect our rights, we'll answer. Thank you. Now, let me start with the questions, Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0346par0135	Mr. President, is that an answer to me? Answer me?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0347par0136	No, no.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0137	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0348par0138	We will, sir, we will!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0347par0139	It's not about you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0140	I didn't answer anyone.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0347par0141	We talked about something else earlier.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0142	Two MPs have condemned it. My answers are about them, he says.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0349par0143	Is this about me?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0347par0144	No, no, it's not about you, it answers questions.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0145	It has nothing to do with you. It's true that I was taken from the presidency. During February 28th, I was President of the University of Kırıkkale, and I was dismissed as President of the Anti-Irtician Rector. I'm not denying it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0350par0147	That's something to applaud, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0149	Secondly, the mole charge is a slander. I won't say his name. And for him, the judgment has already struck them in the face. Then I told you, those who have the slightest dignity, those who care about their honor, don't play with someone else's honor. That's what I said in there that day, and that's what I'm saying today.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0351par0150	The phones weren't made?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0151	In which country, the Minister of Interior, the gang, the Vesarie, my esteemed MP Mr. Yilmaz, the Ministry of Interior, has become the Ministry of Human Rights.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0352par0152	Why was the Minister of the Interior removed before this? Why did he resign?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0153	And I was in the middle of the most intense fight with gangs at the time.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0352par0154	It's a criminal organization, isn't it?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0345par0155	And I'm the Minister who's doing the most work on that and on what you're saying at the time, I'll tell you that. Mr. Aghababa, honestly, this is Ergenekon, the Sledgehammer, and I can't say anything about that right now, but I'll answer it, so forgive me if I haven't been able to understand the question and prepare the answer. I asked this National Intelligence Agency again if there was a report presented to the Prime Minister in time or something. He said there is no such thing. And I'm telling you that answer.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0353par0158	That's worse. So much money being laundered, there's no report of the MIT, the Frenchman! What kind of a thing is that? The National Intelligence Agency has no knowledge of what's going on...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0354par0159	He can't even move a truck!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0353par0160	I mean, is that even possible? Mr. President, this is worse.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0355par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0356par0162	Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0353par0163	That's worse! That's too bad!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0356par0164	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0357par0165	So now that we're told, we're not supposed to say anything! The opposition MP, a group of vice presidents, will say anything, but I shouldn't answer at all! What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0358par0166	Give it to me, we're waiting.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0359par0167	What a shame!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0357par0168	I mean, you're all screaming in there. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0360par0169	Mr. Vural, Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0361par0170	You can't get the truck anywhere.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0362par0171	What's the mission?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0360par0172	Answering questions, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0362par0173	He's not answering, sir, he's trying to answer questions.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0363par0174	How many times does a truck get caught, a truck from an MIT? How's that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0364par0175	Here...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0365par0176	He doesn't have to give you the answers you want, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0363par0177	He'll give us the right answer, not the right answer. He can't move a truck, MIT! How's that?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0364par0178	There's a...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0365par0179	He doesn't have to give you the answers you want, he'll tell you what's right.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0366par0180	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0367par0181	He didn't answer our questions.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0368par0182	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you asked questions...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0367par0183	You're not answering.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0369par0184	Shut up and listen!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0370par0185	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0371par0186	You decide what I'm going to answer, then you won't have to ask. Ask him yourself and answer him yourself.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0372par0187	You're not answering.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0371par0188	I can answer questions any way I want to, brother.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0373par0189	Mr. Secretary, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0371par0190	I mean, do you want me to ask you what answer to that, too? That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0373par0191	Mr. Yilmaz, please... Please don't talk to me. Address the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0194	Yes, Mr. President, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0375par0195	Okay, we'll ask questions the way you want, the way the Minister wants.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0196	Mr. President, I know we've exhausted you today.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0376par0197	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0198	Okay, I'm gonna finish.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0376par0199	Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0200	Mr. Tallırmak says how much has the head of the agency changed about resisting intelligence? I'll take his information and give it to you in private. They didn't give me any information, so I don't have any information in front of me, so I'm keeping it a secret.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0377par0201	Has there been any changes with the joint undersecretary?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0202	Here's the irresponsibility of the irreparable decree...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0377par0203	Has there been any change in the joint undersecretary? That's what I asked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0204	The question of a congressman...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0377par0205	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0378par0206	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0374par0207	In the face of advances in the world and technology...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0377par0208	Mr. Secretary, has there been any change in the joint undersecretary? That, too.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0379par0209	Mr. President, there's no such thing as a procedure! Give me an answer!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0380par0210	Mr. Tallback, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0381par0211	...because of the diversification of changing tasks and activities...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0382par0212	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0380par0213	Mr. Longset, please... look, he said he'd answer you later. Come on, I'm in a very difficult position. I'm asking you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0381par0214	...when tasks are added to the Council of Ministers...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0382par0215	He told me he was the head of the agency, didn't tell me he was an undersecretary.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0380par0216	I get it, but...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0382par0217	Well, don't you think he'll know if the Undersecretary of Deputies has changed? That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0380par0218	Well, go on then!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0382par0219	What kind of state order...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0380par0220	Go ahead!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0383par0221	The MIT isn't up to me, it's up to the Prime Minister, let me put it this way. Yes, the irreparable verdict for the MIT...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0384par0223	Why are you sitting there?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0383par0224	Is the Prime Minister here to come and defend it?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0384par0225	Of course he'll defend it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0383par0226	Is that not a question? Due to the diversification of tasks and activities that vary in the world and in technology, it is noted that the Council of Ministers has added tasks. And finally, about the solution process, our friends' own statements, we don't share a speck, they know it themselves. They call it a demolition project. Is your conscience comfortable? We are happy if any of Turkey's major problems are solved. And now, hopefully, if we dig from Turkey, if Turkey lives within all its borders, 77 million brothers -- for the first time this election environment has shown people in that region how much democracy is preferable to violence -- the taste of democracy is being tasted -- so I would be very honored and very proud to have a share in the unity of our country, and I hope that Turkey will succeed. As I said in the beginning, my dear lawmakers, how do we all stop this blood in Turkey, how do we increase this brotherhood, how do we build democracy instead of violence, how do we defend rights and law in the country, how do we build democracy more, how do we put democracy in its place? God knows, that's my greatest wish, that's what we all want, that's what you want. Let's hope we get through this. My conscience is clear, so let me put it this way. Again, two of our deputies are insulting us... I don't insult any of my deputies. Don't get me if my voice has gone up in the face of tough talk, if that's what you're hearing. If there's such an insult, I take it back, it's wrong. Thank you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0385par0232	Mr. Vural, you had something. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0386par0236	Yes, Mr. President, as it is known, there was a claim of dishonor in the meeting with this PKK. It was said that if he did not prove it, he was an asshole. So it turned out to be who he was referring to in these talks about this asshole. This, in general, has insulted a member of parliament by saying that such a responsibility is above political power in the face of such a claim, directly, Mr. Secretary, is you! I'd like to apologize to both the General Assembly and the congressman.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0387par0237	Let's punish him, dear, punishment.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0386par0238	I don't know what you'd appreciate, your appreciation for...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0388par0239	It's about the punishment, of course, to vote. I'll go first, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0386par0240	Let's warn him. First let's ask the Minister what he has to say and then we'll see what he has to say. Mr. Secretary, come in. It's in the transcripts, too.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0389par0244	I read the statement exactly, Mr. President, and I give it to you: Thank you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Nurettin Canikli, Mr. President... Mr. Canikli, let me hear you. Ali Tallırmak (Administrator) ▪ Alas, woe, woe, woe! Yusef Halaçoglu (Kayseri) ▪ Keep in touch, keep in touch! Ali Longırmak (Adýn) you've made a bastard out of people who work for you! You've made an asshole out of people who work for you! Mahir Ünal (Heromanmarash), Ya, neat, Mr. Ali... Ali Longırmak (Adýn) (Adýn) you made a bastard out of working with you so you wouldn't have to be a bastard yourself! Mr. Tallermak, please... Mahir Ünal (Heromanmarash) Mr. Ali, Mr. Ali... Ali Longırmak, you've made all the employees a bastard! Mr. Tallermak, please... Ali Longırmak (Adjective) ▪ You call those of you who work for you, you son of a bitch! Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay (Kırkkale) You're the son of a bitch! [[Marching from MHP Group to Commission ranks]] Mr. Tallermak, please... Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay (Kırkkale) ▪ I return. Mr. Secretary, please... I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger. Here's the report, guys. I read it exactly.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0390par0266	Yeah.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0391par0267	I'm returning it, you're the son of a bitch!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0390par0268	I know, I saw it.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0392par0269	Excuse me...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0391par0270	Mr. President, the claim of dishonor is a direct claim from the government.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0392par0271	Excuse me... excuse me...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0391par0272	It's the government's claim.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0393par0273	One moment... Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0391par0274	Thus, it is attributed to the government's claim of dishonor.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0394par0275	Mr. Vural, don't! The record's in the middle!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0391par0276	They must have told you about it themselves. He's an interviewing son of a bitch. Therefore, it is a direct insult to the truth that they take what they say as if we had spoken it, and that you are the one who is a disgrace to us personally!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0395par0277	Mr. President, I wasn't finished.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0396par0278	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0395par0279	Are the group vice presidents able to get in any minute while I'm talking?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0396par0280	Yeah, it's been that way for two days. Please...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0397par0282	It would be more appropriate for you to remove it from the union under the Civil Code. Get him out of the union, get the substitute minister in. It's already there.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0396par0283	Come in... come in, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0398par0284	That's not for your taste.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0397par0285	No, of course not.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0398par0286	You young opposition, you'll sit there, from there...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0399par0287	People make decisions, people... they press the seal, the chest, the people decide.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0400par0288	You're talking about respect for the MP and you're talking about opposition!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0401par0289	He's still insulting you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0290	Mr. Secretary... Mr. Secretary, now look...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0403par0291	You've still got the beating on your face.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0401par0292	Of course, Mr. President! What does this Minister think of this place? What the hell does he think this is?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0293	Mr. Turkoglu, I beg you... please listen to me. Mr. Secretary, you are this bastard!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0295	I'll continue...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0296	Yeah, go ahead.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0297	I'll continue, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0298	Yes, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0299	But he did, Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0300	Okay. But you go ahead.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0301	He has no right to interrupt. How can he get in the way of that at any moment!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0302	It's not the first time. That's what you always say.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0303	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0402par0304	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0305	He doesn't come between my words!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0405par0306	What's in between words? You're done anyway. He doesn't have a say in the matter.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0404par0307	I wasn't finished. I read the report. I didn't finish what I was going to say.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0405par0308	Then do as you're told, sir. Do what's necessary. Better toss it out of the mix.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0406par0309	Let him finish, Mr. Vural. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0407par0311	People did what they had to do, people. People do what they have to do.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0408par0312	Mr. President, I just went to school here. I'm here to...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0409par0313	Sir, call Salim Nice Bey, and the Minister will come out.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0408par0314	I offer this text to your appreciation.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0409par0315	Call Mr. Salim, and he will come out.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0408par0316	You're the asshole I told that MP about! I take it back!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0410par0317	Why are you taking it?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0411par0318	Why are you taking it?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0408par0319	I'll take it, I'll take it anyway. But I also read this report to you. I present it to the President. Mr. President promised to fix this. I'm correcting it. But that's all the words in this report, and you do whatever the hell you're gonna do.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0412par0320	Send it to its owner, its owner.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0413par0321	Mr. President, I repeat, this is the Prime Minister's claim to dishonor.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0414par0323	Shame on you! What a shame!
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0413par0324	The Prime Minister must have told you. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) He's the bastard who's been talking to the PKK. Therefore, the subject of dishonor is a matter for you to consider among yourselves.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit07spe0415par0325	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger. I'd like to ask the members of the group...
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0415par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 563. The Commission and the Government are here. Mr. Longhorn, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0416par0007	Mr. President, thank you. Now, there's been a very different discussion here. This matter of dishonor was said by Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Bulent Arinc at a convention and at an election site. He is the bastard who met with the PKK. A word such as "PKK" was used, and that is not my accusation. I mean, I didn't tell the government's officials. I didn't say that, they say that they're an interviewing bastard. I interpreted him. I said: "You've made the government see the state. You've made the people who meet on behalf of the state, so you've made the people who see you a bastard. You've made the ones you gave the orders to do so. You've made the bastards. I condemn the Minister's insult from here until he reaches both me and you. If my word -- I didn't say that to anyone -- is understood, I didn't mean it, I want it to be known. In their own words, I explained to them what had come to them. There's no insult in my word. I thank you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0417par0014	Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are four motions on article 1, which I will have read and process separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that (h) and (i) be replaced in the first joke of Article 2937, which is envisioned to replace the proposed Law proposal with Article 1 of the framework. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Bünyamin Uzbek Osman love Bak Yilmaz Tunç Hakan Çağoğlu "h) to carry out the duties given by the Council of Ministers on foreign security, the fight against terrorism and national security. I) To collect information, document, information, news and data, save, analyze, and provide information that is produced by using all kinds of technical intelligence and human intelligence, tools and systems in terms of foreign intelligence, national defence, counterterrorism and international security." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 563 Common Orders of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Law Order 1. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Ali Serindağ Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Ali Haydar Öner Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the removal of Article 1 of the current 563 rows of the bill from the text of the law. Hasip Kaplan Fair Zozani Ertugrü Furçı Erol Dora Altan Tan Halil Aksoy Now, the motion I'm going to read is a motion against the Constitution, so I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly State Intelligence Services No. 563 and the National Intelligence Service Act under discussion are the first to propose amendments to the Law. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text because it is contrary to the Constitution. Mesut Dedeoğlu Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Özcan Yeniçeri Reşat Right Bulent Belen Do you agree with the commission?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0418par0049	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0417par0050	Government?
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0419par0051	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0417par0052	Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, come in.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0420par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge on the proposal on the 1st article of the Law Proposal, 563 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. Members of the National Intelligence Service performs the same function for a country, regardless of what the nervous system in a body does. There is a linear relationship between national intelligence and national security. A accurate and verified intelligence network is the national security of the country. False or manipulated intelligence can't make the right decision. The fact that the National Intelligence Agency is strong, efficient, efficient, and energetic is really closely related to its nationality. The prevention of destructive and divisive actions requires proactive decisions to eliminate the effects of foreign services. And in order to make a proactive decision, you need the right information and the right information. In this case, national intelligence is vital. But the question is, how national intelligence is the strategy followed by the National Intelligence Agency? How much is it possible to mention the nationality of the National Intelligence Agency under the rule of a government that suffers when it pronounces the name of its Turkish nation? The leaked Oslo talks, the Imran transcripts, are full of creepy expressions for the MIT. How were relations with İmrallı and the KCK contract being printed and served out of İmralı, the villain in Diyarbakır Square, and the letters of Bayık, the terrorist leader in Kandil, possible, and whose work is this? The aim of this bill is not to provide the MIT, as the ruling authorities say, the resources of foreign intelligence services that work more effectively and efficiently. I ask you, is the purpose of this bill to gather more qualified information and intelligence to ensure the safety of the country, the state, the nation? Or is it intended to prevent the safety of power or those in power from being tried for their crimes? Is the goal to create legal infrastructure against illegal behavior and verbs? Dear lawmakers, following a corruption and bribery operation on December 17th, laws are being passed over and over again. The government, which panics with the December 17th operation, changes the law with its life, relieves it of duty, expels it, and threatens it. In anger, revenge, fear, and doubt, laws are being brought to the High Council one after another. See, a form of censorship law has been passed on the Internet to prevent corruption and bribery images from appearing on the Internet. A change has been made in the HSYK for the release of those arrested for corruption and bribery and for the control of the judiciary. The Law on the Judiciary Law has been changed to prevent corruption and bribery-oriented operation involving the ruling parties. For the first time in the history of the republic, all national education directors and school principals in Turkey have been relieved of their duties, deposed. The AKP's government has dismissed bureaucracy, such as the anklet cotton, and the MIT Law is the continuation of this concept. It is understood that the drafting of the legislation on the agenda is prepared with panic, fear, revenge, haste. This law has not yet been passed, but MİSCE officials are couriering to Ocalan, meeting with the terrorist leader and having a number of meetings given by Prime Minister Erdogan and his unconstitutional orders. Prime Minister Erdogan and various officials of his government have taken the state and the terrorist leader to a table that the law has not given him, allowing bloody terrorists to leave the country with their hands loose. Relationships are established in the Constitution and the laws that have no place in it, all of which create a criminal element. With the MIT Law, these actions are being tried to be decriminalized. Thus, it is evident that the ruling authorities are trying to provide them with legal basis for their crimes. This bill is a fraud against the Constitution; this bill is aimed at decriminalizing crimes and crimes committed, not against the state and nation, but against the state and the nation. The goal of this change in the MIT Law is to ensure a legal basis for talks with terrorist elements and to maintain the AKP's power over democratic law and to keep the opposition under duress. This law applies the Constitution and the state to the MIT, not to the state and the Constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With this bill, constitutional democratic rights and freedoms, privacy of private life, freedom of communication, housing immunity are disabled when it comes to the MIT. We're facing a disaster. The Justice and Development Party is creating a Frankenstein, which Frankenstein will eat himself first. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0421par0069	We want roll call.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit08spe0422par0070	There's a request for roll call. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Land, Mr. Sourshi, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Demirköz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Young, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Ekici, Mr. Special, Mr. Güler, Mr. Acar, Mr. Light, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Haberal. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-04-10sit09spe0422par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri and his friends' proposal had not reached enough attendance in the roll call before the vote. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you one minute to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Since the second roll call did not provide enough for the meeting, oral question motions and billing and proposals were held to discuss other tasks from the commissions, on Tuesday (April 15th 2014) at 15 p.m. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
