tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who asked for an update on housing investments in Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0002par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised developments in the housing sector in Denizli. I salute the grand jury. Between 2003 and 2013, a total of 58,000 building licenses were issued and 67,000 building permits were issued in Denizli. 10,312 dwellings were sold during January 2013-October, 10,376 dwellings were sold during January 2014 and at the same time 1,250 apartments were reduced in loans. Mr. Erdogan spoke earlier about aparts in Denizli, when he was Prime Minister, he said bad things about aparts. As the incident grew, one of the AKP's vice presidents based the incident on a report at Denizli Security Directorate. We asked the Home Secretary, but we didn't meet this report. That Minister we're asking about said there's no such report, the Minister who resigned. Either he's hiding a report from the Minister, or it's true, people don't get told. And now a mayor says we're not going to be able to enter in front of the cameras. I don't know what he's saying it for. If it's the safety of the students, then it's the duty of the police; if it's something else, no one has the right to use a statement that's bad for the children of the world. And why do kids get bad looks? Let's get down to brass tacks. The legal side of the matter was expressed by Yusuf Fark Bey, the head of our Metropolitan City Council Group. If there's a problem with the Aparts, the police are there. It's a shame to bring up Denizli like this. In Denizli, it has been a subject of the articles of the moral police. What the hell did the AKP do to a country that used to be famous for its industry! These apartments were issued during the AKP period; they were licensed during their period; if they didn't have a business license, they were on the run during their term; if they didn't have a building license, they didn't have a building permit, they were still under their term; if they were being abused, they were being abused by AKP's administration. Now, when we look at it this way, it's possible to say that what happens when you have a problem with aparts is not going to happen when you allow high buildings in Denizli. Is this the kind of arrangement that's been made recently in Denizli, or is it given in order to do favors to destroy the wrong perceptions of apets? Let's get these explained. The Rants don't bother the mayors? Why is the marine businessman investing in the upper room? The man has money in his pocket, but he wants to invest, he can't trust the AKP. Where do you want it? He can't invest in industry. What does the President of the Industrial Room say? He says he hasn't struck a nail for a new investment in Denizli in ten years. He says there have been problems with mine permits; he says 5 per cent of the applications have come to fruition; he says it's a huge loss in economics; he says the use of electricity lost fugitives has increased costs for them. Or was it in your Oslo legislation that the cost of these missing fugitives in electricity was being charged to the marines? This needs to be said to Denizli, to be explained. I mean, it's nice to someone else, costing Denizli. There's no such disgrace. The licenses from the municipalities have been waiting months for applications. That's what MISIAD says. The construction water deposit was high. They want the bureaucratic barriers lifted. The investor wasn't getting in the way of the AKP, and our minister in charge of the incentive is Denizli. Let the public-industrial dialogue be increased. It says "USIAD," but they see the consequences of public-contribution dialogue in Denizli. Why is it that the older parties are in the increased Denizli, that no one should get involved in things that cannot be construed and understood, and not be like the Prime Minister? If we had enough dorms, our kids wouldn't be in the upper room anyway. You can't do it and you talk badly. The prime minister is also slandering the MHP and the SHP, saying that Sivas is in power. If he doesn't want to slander, he should apologize. I pay my respects to the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Izwarem, who wants to talk about health problems. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have received a promise from the esteemed MPs regarding the health problems and other problems in Erzincan. I salute you all. On the 22nd, on November 22nd, Prime Minister Erzincan came to Erzincan, promised 200 beds of hospital and left. That statement was made in 2012, and it was given when our Minister of Development arrived in 2014, and now the Prime Minister has arrived. The promise of this research hospital was already made and the project was not done because of the court, but they promised again. Again, what is the opinion of the Minister of Health that we should build Erzincan so many hospitals? We are suspicious because he says so, I hope it will be done. But the actual commitments were not for the hospital, but for the emergency part of the state hospital that was destroyed. We expect politicians to keep their promises at the time -- especially here -- and the emergency part of the state hospital in Erzincan will be hospitalized there. When the Prime Minister arrived, he said there were 5 quadrillion investments in Erzincan in 12 years. Eighty to 90 percent of the investment in Erzincan went on the road. Where did he go? He's on his way to E-80. It's an international road, a road that needs to be done. But when this money was spent, unfortunately, it was spent in a very unconscious way. When this road was being built, it had been dismantled and rebuilt over and over again in what we call the Sansa. In the part we call Skaltutan, the road has changed four times, the road is being made, it's ending, the road is being made again. In the valley of Köroğlu, the road is done the same way, it is finished, it is opened to the ministry, it is broken again. I mean, sometimes I think, aren't there any engineers in this Transport Ministry that come and look at it? I'm afraid most of this money has gone to waste. But I don't think it's right to use it as a service to Erzincan, because if Erzincan was to be served, Mr. Prime Minister could give you the good news: We don't shut down the Sugar Factory, we don't privatize the Candy Factory. The Sugar Factory needs 12 trillion in old money, and I send it right away, and I renew it at Erzincan Sugar Factory, and I give it to the beet farmers. But where, he never said that. The words he said were that he said things that were said before, places that could be done. In Erzincan, we had a CANPI. In chicken production, he started producing in 2006, he bought it in 2004. Despite that crisis in 2006, he continued, but unfortunately, in 2009, the CANPI closed down, went bankrupt, and then the farm was shut down because they were bankrupt, and Erzincan suffered a great deal of damage. In 2012, we supported this place and gave it to the Meat Fish Foundation. The Meat Fish Association has been trying to open it since 2012. According to my latest report, the machine will be tendered on the 15th and then opened, which will probably take about another year. Of course, our political friends at the time said that when the CANPI in Erzincan opened, about 250 people would work, at least 250 people, but what I learned was that there would be no more than 200 people working with all the officers, with all the managers, with all the guards, with all the guards, that's nothing to invest in Erzincan. Plus, we had a meat-cutting combination in Erzincan, whose old name was ERSAN Celebrity, and they spent $12 million on the money at the time and built this place. Then, of course, I don't want to get into your reasons, but they blamed the owner in Ergenekon, and they threw him in, and they ruined him, and it's closed, and those $12 million facilities are lying down right now. When the Prime Minister arrived, he should have said that he wished that we would re-enact this ERSAN. Let's get it moving again. What's done in Erzincan is done as a call center for an afterquake facility that was built earlier. What's done at the call center is that the children who already work there are condemned to work by demoralizing you, but because of unemployment. There's this job, there's no other investment in Erzincan, we don't have to fool anyone, but every time we come to Erzincan and we say, "This is what we've done." And we sort it out, but when we look at Erzincan, we know where five quadrillion dollars go. Five quadrillion coins, as I said, went on the road, no investment in Erzincan. Erzincan was not able to do any work at Erzincan this year, since there was no second piece of KYODES. Friends in the Special Administration were ashamed of the chiefs for failing to keep their promises, and the chiefs were ashamed of their peasants. So, when we call it investment, the investment goes by one illusion. I wish these combinations would be better for Erzincan to revive agriculture, to stimulate animalism, but, as I said, there's always an eye-painting at Erzincan, but the Erzincan people don't believe it anymore. Erzincan, like I said, drowned, he's getting tighter. The solution is to actually invest in Erzincan. The first thing to do to Erzincan is to be promised that the Sugar Factory will not be closed; this is what we expect, and if they make this promise, we think it is sincere for Erzincan. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you. The third statement outside the agenda belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Boyraz (Turkish Party) who wants to make a general assessment of Istanbul. Here you go, Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to make a general assessment of my constituency district of Istanbul. On this occasion, I salute our beloved nation, watching us on the screen, with love, respect, and conversation. Of course, Istanbul is the most beautiful, magnificent and glorious city in the world. It has been a settlement for centuries, a capital of civilizations; it has been the capital of commerce, reign, glory, grace, and dreams. Istanbul is the pearl of seven continents. As Master Necip Fazil put it, he is my beloved, who has passed through time and space. He has been the love of poets with verses. His poetry-smelling neighborhoods, hills, streets and streets... are a mosaic of Istanbul, the capital of the colors of the world in each stone. It's a magnificent painting of a painter who masters black, white, blue, red, green. Who is there in this painting: The Tower of Galata, which stands upright on one side, the Tower of the Girl, where she looks for her brow on the other, so gracefully floating in Skopjedar? It's a rug, a noose, embroidered rug. Istanbul is a city that contains every color of Anatolia. It's a city that meets different tunes in a song, where it's filled with enthusiasm, excitement at every point, so much noise, it's a city that accepts wealth and makes it one voice. Istanbul is an art that makes the lips of master artists fly, an art that is unique and unique in the world; an art that nurtures emotions and amazes you when you think about it. Istanbul is the spring of architecture, music, poetry, music. In each song you hear his name, in each song his glory, the footsteps of Sinan, the compositions of ItriI, the songs of Nedim, and the verses of Baki. Istanbul is such a love that death is in fate that holds it captive, but the separation of Istanbul is hard enough to say. I looked down on you yesterday, O Aziz Istanbul/ I have not seen any place I have not seen, as much as my life is at ease with my heart's throne, and it is worth a lifetime to even love a simple neighborhood. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;John Kemal, who says that even loving a plain neighborhood would be enough. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;But we say that it doesn't matter to us.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;We love every street and every street of Istanbul. &lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; We serve and continue to serve Istanbul day and night without stopping. Of course, what would you think of me if I told you to go back in time? The Halic, now inhabited by dozens of fish with modern halls, congressional centers. What would you have thought of if I had said "Hailç" years ago? You would frown, and you would not be cleansed. The smell of the estuary, which is called Halic, would come to your nose. But now the clean and oxygenated water of the Bosphorus flows to the Halic. As I've just said, dozens of species of fish live. The carpet's clean, the sea's clear, the perimeter's clear. I thank God that in Istanbul, where I came to study for college in 1993, in this city, which is blessed to the praise of our Prophet Lord, there was a chance to serve this city, which was fortunate, let alone a laughing man. I said the 90s, I said the Haliç. Oh, those 90s... may my Lord never let those days live again to the people of Istanbul. Not Istanbul at the time, but our children, grandchildren, and their grandchildren. The mountains of garbage that exploded in the Ümraniye, the dozens of people who died; Istanbul, where garbage is not collected; where every street, every street is turned into garbage mountains; where water is not drunk; and water is not drunk; water is not watered; and gas stations are opened in every street, such as gas stations, and gas masks are distributed. I don't want my Lord to give those years to the people of Istanbul again. I think, these days, I want them to feel full of Istanbul and live to the fullest. Here are the men who had the right pride of fulfilling a dream that the conqueror had conquered by running the land ships, and the grandchildren by moving the ships under the sea... that had integrated Asia and Europe into one another. Honourable lawmakers, I would like to express my words -- of course, when time is too narrow -- in a poem by Master Necip Fazil Shortfurek: The arrows come out of the bow at every dawn forts, and the screams still come from the Topkapi Palace. / Can't be as bad as Ana, a land like Istanbul; / Gülni is happy to cry, let alone be happy... / Nightsi sümbül / Turkish sümbül smells like nightingales, / İstanbul, Istanbul...
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm teaching it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I've come to believe that the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, where I'm a member, cannot conduct an independent and impartial investigation, that instead of the judicial nature of the Commission, its political side has become decisive, and that it has no function to reveal the facts. 1) At the first meeting of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which should be independent and neutral, which served as a judicial commission, the party made an unfortunate start by choosing a single member from a single party (AKP) president, vice president, spokesman and clerk. 2) Despite all the Commission members' insistence, we have not been given the files on the investigation given to the suspects' attorneys. 3) The choice of witnesses was made by the presidency and placed before us without discussion. The selected witnesses were chosen specifically from close relatives of suspects who could avoid testifying, or from those who had the right to withdraw from their testimony as a suspect in this case. As a matter of fact, a significant number of them have used their rights to recuse themselves. I have no doubt this was designed. 4) We have determined the mandate of the subcommittee created to examine new files that have been issued in Istanbul, and if there are new witnesses and suspects who need to be heard after this examination, let them listen. In particular, it says, "Let the Yaza Sarraf and other prominent known witnesses be heard by the entire Commission in Ankara." we said. Because it was a need to get straight to the truth with the evidence. Although there was no contrary view of this determination during the meeting, the subcommittee also heard witnesses such as Reza Sarraf, Ali Agaoglu, in Istanbul, assuming that this will was destroyed. 5) Since our commission serves as a prosecutor, it can, of course, decide on issues that affect the investigation. For example, he has the right to ask the court to violate the confidentiality of the investigation or take certain measures. This request is discussed by members of the Commission at the meeting, taken into consideration. But if our Commissioner can decide to replace himself with the Commission, then we are not needed. As members, we shouldn't have heard the president's decision from the press. 6) The commissioner decides when to listen to witnesses and suspects. In making this decision, for example, Mr. Erdogan, who is leaving the country at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, can call Bayraktar to testify at 2:30 p.m. on the same day. He appreciated the most appropriate deposition date and time interval as the day for the suspect to leave the country. Can we view this situation as a search for truth? Since I do not find it right to continue working on a commission where my will is not effective, I resign as a member of the Commission. With all due respect, I do. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'll have the motions read separately. Since the parliamentary research motion I'm going to read in third place is more than 500 words, the motion summary will be read, but will be included in the full text of the motion magazine. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A year has passed since the Van earthquake occurred on October 23, 2011. The earthquake left 644 of our citizens dead, thousands injured, and tens of thousands homeless. Problems in housing, school, health care and infrastructure are still under way after the earthquake. After the earthquake, neither container nor tent was provided for. Since the earthquake occurred in winter conditions, the negative consequences have been greater. After the earthquake, we propose and demand that the Parliament be opened under Article 104 of the 98th and 105th Amendments of the Constitution, in order to investigate the failures of the Constitution to help Van citizens, the outcome of aid from other parts of Turkey, and to help the Vanite earthquake victims. The latest destruction caused by the earthquake took place in Van on October 23, 2011, a year ago. The Van earthquake cost the lives of our 644 citizens, the houses were destroyed, the winter conditions, hundreds of thousands of people migrated to other cities, people had no place to live. Our municipalities have been asked to be blocked by the government, trying to produce limited resources to heal the wounds that occurred after the Van Earthquake. In addition, central government representatives, BDP's Van, limiting its relationship with local governments, aims to make BDP municipalities more dysfunctional than public service. Even in a natural disaster such as the earthquake, the government has not put aside its external perspective. Van's assistance, especially from university students, was put in front of them as a process of detention, arrest, and criminalization, while the civil and public populations, who have used racist rhetoric against the people of Van, are thus, as they say, obstructing services and assistance. Although Turkey's Red Sea was unable to provide the necessary assistance for the Van earthquake victims, it allowed Syrian citizens who migrated from Syria to set up container cities without wasting time, causing new questions in their minds. Despite this negative picture, the quiet majority of the peoples of Turkey have mobilized and have been in solidarity with the Van people as much as possible. Although taxes collected after the 1999 Marmara earthquake have been found to have been spent on double roads by the AKP government, it is not yet known where the assistance for Van has been poured out. In this painting, the migration of hundreds of thousands has occurred, and Van has advanced to become a ghost city. In the winter conditions, in tents, in huts, in haylofts, or in tentslike structures made of plastic, the rest tried to survive. Babies who freeze to death in such an environment have died from a fire. After the earthquake, Mayor Bekir Kaya was thrown into prison, and the city was punished in accordance with the solidarity and services produced by our local governments. During his visit to Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay Van, he threatened people by saying that the Vans should vote for them, proving that the government's main goal was political rant. 70 square metres of housing, built long after the earthquake, are being sold for $70,000, seeking to enrich TOKI and contractors over an earthquake, and still no correct approaches and policies can be established at the point of the wound's entwined, despite the second winter over the earthquake. In Van, the housing problem, the infrastructure problem, the state of schools, the lack of health care remains. In this context, we demand a parliamentary investigation into the problems of the people of Van during the year after the earthquake, to determine where the criminalizing practices of the government, the assistance of the people of Van are being channeled, and to open the way for the wounds that exist immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to establish statistical data on hate crimes in Turkey, to be conducted, to be specifically identified for hate crimes, to be compared to existing laws in the world to prevent hate crimes, to determine the urgent regulations needed to prevent hate crimes in Turkey, to open the Parliament under Articles 98th, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey's increasingly militant and nationalist environment has led to intense hatred speech and increased hate crimes. Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey states that everyone is equal to the law, regardless of language, race, color, gender, political thought, philosophical belief, religion, sect and so on. Similarly, Article 3 of Article 5237 of the Turkish Penal Code protects the principle of equality in front of justice and law, Article 76 prohibits genocide, Article 122 prohibits discrimination, Article 216/th finds it a crime to incite people to hatred and hostility. Despite these Constitutions and laws, no one has ever been charged with racism or discrimination or hate crime. On the contrary, it is used for academics and human rights activists who try to prevent hate crimes. Hate crimes in Turkey are on the agenda for long-standing hate crimes against trans individuals. However, there are many others who have been attacked, beaten, discriminated against by different ethnic identity or beliefs, culture, and class. On a legal level, the existing laws clearly do not ban hate crimes. Current legal regulations are as technically problematic as they are lacking. Current legal regulations are highly open to arbitrary practices and can be misused. Turkey is among the 22 countries in 56 OSCE members, who have made a comprehensive definition of hate crimes, without legal regulation. Moreover, hate crimes committed by categories are not fully known because Turkey failed to fulfill its obligation to collect statistical information in this area. According to information from NGOs working in this area, the most intensively involved categories of hate crimes include religion and faith, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or other areas of sexual identity and other areas we can call them. Although it has a multicultural and identityed structure, hate crimes against Kurds, Arabs, Alevis, trances, gypsies and many different groups are committed with intense intensity. As a result, Sunni, Turkish and non-men are subject to discrimination and hate crimes. As there is no separate law on hate crimes in Turkey's existing legal regulations, the only item related to this issue, the TCK 216, has never been applied as a deterrent of hate crimes. On the contrary, it was used to punish those who made any threats against the state, as if they were against the nation of the state. In view of all these missing points, we propose that a research commission be set up in Turkey to establish statistical data on hate crimes, to identify hate crimes, to examine existing laws around the world to prevent hate crimes, to establish the necessary arrangements to prevent hate crimes immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In light of the lack of control of military expenditures and the consequences of the dissolution of these expenditures, I would like to submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation of the Constitution, the 98th and the 104th and 105th Articles of the Civil Law. [[Diyarbakır]] [[Lug]] [[Bingöl]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Şırnak]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] One of the most important tasks of the House in democracies is to ensure that public services, which are collected from citizens, are used for the right purposes. Public expenditures have been given to the Courts to oversee on behalf of Parliament. Military institutions and organisations are among the public institutions the Court is obliged to oversee. The establishment of civilian control of the military and law enforcement forces, which form the security and defence sector, is crucial to the healthy functioning of the democratic process. Without being transparent enough, defence spending, which has become open to allegations of corruption, will also reduce the efficiency and efficiency of security sector institutions. However, the Court's control of military expenditures has been severely limited, unlike any other public enterprises it controls. The transparency and accountability of military spending are also among the democratic criteria Turkey must meet under full membership talks with the European Union. When we look at our country's defence-separated resources, we come across a picture like this: budgetary and non-budget resources. Infinity resources are used as a defence services pen in the Finance Ministry budget data. The National Ministry of Defence budget represents about 80 per cent of internal defence spending. The budget of the Ministry of National Defence at the Finance Ministry provides funds for the General Staff and for the Kara, Air and Naval Forces, but these funds are not shown separately in the fiscal year budget tables. In addition to the grants assigned to the Turkish Armed Forces through the Ministry of National Defence, there are also some unresolved budgetary resources as part of the internal defence spending. These sources include the Foundation for Reinforcement of Turkish Armed Forces and the 18 military firms, Machine and Chemical Industry Institution, the General Command of the Gendarme, the Coast Guard Command and foreign military loans for arms supply. Military spending, which has not been supervised over the years due to restrictive legislation, is an important place in the country's economy. The final financial budget law must be reviewed to explain the location of military expenditures within the budget. According to this, according to the 2012 Budget Law, adopted at the TBM in December 2011, the funds transferred to institutions and ministries responsible for the security and security of the country constitute 11.1 per cent of the budget at around 39 billion euros. One of the most funded ministries in the 2012 budget is the Ministry of National Defense. While sources for defence and security have not been clearly known under the name "fighting terror" so far, statements from time to time show that the spending of money is very high. Finally, on June 18, 2012, the AKP presented its legal proposal for amendments to Article 35 of Court Law No. 6085 to the head of the Turkish Parliament with its main number (2/679). This proposal was legalized on June 29, 2012 at the TBM, despite opposition reactions. In a nutshell, this recent amendment to the new Law on the Court of Justice, number 6085, has significantly eliminated the effectiveness of the control of public institutions by the Court, and has struck the principle of independence and neutrality, which is the basis of the Court's presence. The amendments are now incompatible with democratic standards, the control authority of auditors in the law. Therefore, it is even more important that an arrangement to ensure that the Court's functions are made in line with international control standards is included in the new constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and the preliminary talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. President. - Members of parliament, 1 membership falls to lawmakers who are not members of the political party's group in the Commission for the Equality of Women and Men's Opportunities and Public Economic Initiatives Commissions. It is Monday (December 8th 2014) at 18 p.m. of non-political party members who want to run for these commissions. I'm asking them to apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey until 00. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/2272) I demand that my original Law Proposal be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. Sezgin Tanrıkulu, MP of İstanbul, has an offer to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0008par0206	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the reason we brought this proposal to the General Assembly's agenda today is to go down in history. Because these records will remain here, and we have put it on the agenda in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, so that those who have actually made an offer in favor of peace, who is in favor of the solution, who is in line with the spirit of the process and the spirit of peace may understand. Dear friends, during a period of more than thirty years in Turkey's struggle with conflict, our president visited the General Centre for Justice and Development on 6 June 2012 and made an offer to Prime Minister Erdogan of the period. It was an offer to set up a commission on the floor of the House and to form a joint intellectual delegation on the basis of this commission. But, unfortunately, this offer was not understood and was sacrificed to political Ranta and political agendas. Later, on 5 January 2013, our president gave a clear check to the AKP government and its President regarding peace at the CHP General Assembly meeting on 5 January 2013. Two days later, however, this initiative was rejected by the AKP. On June 20, 2014, our president presented a very thorough manifesto on what the solution would be in Diyarbakir, which was ignored. Finally, on 29 November 2014, we presented another frame in Diyarbakir. Today, we bring up this proposal in order to express our view that the process you're conducting will not be able to achieve peace, a fundamental peace. If you really want to socialize peace, peace, permanent peace, and you don't want to hold peace hostage, come in your own hands, today, let's create a ground where a simultaneous process can begin in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We clearly see that the ground of the Great National Assembly of Turkey is essential in terms of permanence and socialization of peace. There is no peace with 60 percent. It's said there's 60 percent support in polls, and that's enough for you, but we know that there's a major crack in the bottom of the Justice and Development Party, the CHP's backing the process. If we really want to make this process permanent, if we want to bring it up to 80 percent, 90 percent, and we don't want to create an environment like that on October 6, 7, 8th, the solution process must be carried out by Parliament, walk simultaneously, and have a cognitive team that the Assembly will appoint and choose. This process should not be held hostage by the Justice and Development Party. A major perception management is being tried under the name of the peace process, or under the name of the solution process. Perception management is the concept of the new Turkey. It used to be called a deception, a deception of society, and now its new name is the new process of perception in Turkey. We've come to the conclusion that this process can't work through this perception process, and really what Turkey has come up with is that, given the situation in the Middle East, the new world order, Turkey needs to address this problem on the basis of the Grand National Assembly and with all its components, to create a basis for it to solve it with the greatest understanding possible. You have the opportunity. I'm speaking to lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party, and so far I've brought up eight law proposals according to the Civil Code 37, all rejected, but this offers a new opportunity. I think it's imperative that you consider this opportunity for Turkey's lasting peace. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0009par0211	Thank you. Levent Gök, Ankara MP who asked for a statement on behalf of an MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0010par0215	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the law our vice president just expressed, are important, valuable. The Republican People's Party favours a realistic solution to the Kurdish problem, which constitutes a bleeding wound in our country, causing many deaths and human casualties in the east, southeast. For many years, the party's idea of fundamental issues has been in the party programme and in the declarations. When you look at examples of non-conflict across the world, it has been resolved by informing the opposition of power, taking its support and creating the largest consensus. When you look at England, in the IRA example, when you look at South Africa, in Mandela, and in many parts of the world, the solution to such problems, the center of such problems, was met at some point by power and opposition's common feelings and thoughts. In this regard, we have made some very serious suggestions, and the Republican People's Party has stated that it has given a loan to the ruling party, it has given clear support, but it has certain conditions. Under the circumstances, don't engage in any engagements you can't promise to address the ruling party. Run the process transparently. Inform the public and especially the main opposition. Dear lawmakers, at this point today, the ruling party, in the Kurdish problem, has sadly lost the ground in what they call the process of solution. My friend has just stated that the party is taking hostages, and I want to take it from another point of view, and we're dealing with a process that holds power hostage. This process has not been conducted transparently. We face a situation where many of the AKP's ministers have no knowledge of what the road map is, no one knows what it is, even the officials of the party, which has been taken into parliament, which many of the AKP's ministers do not know. That's out of the question. All of Turkey's geography has different sensibilities, each of which must be expressed by each party and a great compromise is needed in parliament. Under the control of the House and the transparency of the House, this matter will be resolved if it can be resolved. Otherwise, according to the upcoming elections of the ruling party, according to the conjunctural situation, I want a solution. I'm afraid there's no chance of coming forward and solving this problem. Besides, we have to bring Turkey's democracy and human rights to the best of our ability to solve this problem. However, with all the laws followed by the ruling party to parliament these days, the democratic environment in Turkey, the judiciary, the police, the armed forces, the democratic rights of the people in Turkey, the rights of the people in Turkey, are wanted to be brought back one by one. Here's the justice package we're about to discuss with the AKP's judiciary, with the internal security package sent to parliament, the AKP's police... do you think there'll be a democracy in the country if that package becomes a law that the Minister of the Interior will be appointed by the county of gendarmes, with the company commanders, with an advocacy organization for the AKP? These processes can always be solved in climates in which democracy and human rights develop. Now, you're going to take these rights from people, and I'm bringing solutions. You're going to say, "No way. Turkey's 74 million people have no chance of success in a time when each has not been liberated separately and has not taken full advantage of human rights. Therefore, he says that it is best to make the offer very well evaluated and that it is the best way to conduct it under the council of all parties, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0011par0221	Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0012par0222	Mr. President, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit01spe0011par0223	I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0011par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 21st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in voting on a direct motion to vote under Article 37 of the Civil Code, so I will submit the motion to your votes again and look for the sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to vote for members of the Justice and Development Party group that are available in some commissions. For the free membership of the National Defence Commission, Parliamentary İsmail Aydın... All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Hatay MP Adem Yeşildal... All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals of the Law and other actions from the Commission. We will resume the talks of Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report and the Proposal for the Amendment to Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Institution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Integration Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can and Isparta MP Recep Special and 52 MPs; Judges and Prosecutors' Law and Adjudications of Laws and Laws under the Law of Laws and Laws and Orders; Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan; 1512 Notary Law 59. The Law Proposal for the Resolving of Laws Against Diseases of Noters, İstanbul MP Aydın Ajan Ayaydın; Law Proposal for Changes in the Law of Judges and Prosecutors 2802; Justice and Development Party Chairs Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın, Kahrimarash MP Mahir Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı; 33 MPs; Agreement of Justices and Laws of Laws and Laws and Law Orders of Human Rights and Law Orders of Laws; We shall hold a proposal to be held at the same place by İstanbul MP Mair Ünal, İstanbul MP Mihrimah Belma Line and Amasi MP Mehmet Naci Bostancıcıcıcıçcı; Adıncı. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Under the 91st Article of the Civil Code, Article 37 was adopted into the 20th Union of 27/11/2014. There are three motions on Article 38: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that on the days of which they gave the term of the lecture, the declaration of the 38th article of the Law Proposal, which is listed in the 655th Amendment, should be changed and changed in the form of the period on the days of the courses. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Ertugrul Furçı Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 38. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "By receiving the opinion of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors" following the "at the request of the president" of the clause B). Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Congressmans, the motion I'm going to now read is a motion against the Constitution. I'll have it read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 38th draft of the current Law Proposal, 655 rows. We propose and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text due to unconstitutionality. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Does the Commission agree with the amendment motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0013par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0011par0055	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0014par0056	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0011par0057	Faruk Bal Konya MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0015par0060	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This week is the World Day of the disabled... with the wishes of removing obstacles to our disabled brothers and sisters, I wish to provide them with a system that can make their lives easier. We are in Article 38 of Law 655. The 38th article has been decided that the professors who will be assigned to the Academy of Justice will be allowed to attend the curriculum as long as they are given these tasks as well as the curriculum schedule and school days. Judges and prosecutors who are often present in the Supreme Court or on the stand at the Justice Academy are considered lecturers at this academy. Now, the academy is an administrative body, especially with the latest amendment to the Academy's Law, fully within the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. I mean, it's become an organ directly influenced by the Justice Department. If we assume that the judges and prosecutors will be the ones to serve here, the relevant institution must allow it to be removed from his jurisdiction. Otherwise, the judge's and the prosecutor's jurisdiction would have been removed from him by the decision of an administrative body, which violates the principle of independence and neutrality of the judiciary. It also violates the rule of law state and the principle of the independence of the courts. Our motion was given in a very state of mind to cut the jurisdictions. When a judge shows up the day after tomorrow, who touches the Zulfüyura, for example, the 5th. If the Supreme Court judges make such a request -- they will be given a position at the academy, and as of this task, the Justice Academy organises the curriculum and the curriculum according to its schedule, which will be given to them. It'll open up a way to get him out of his job at the Supreme Court. Thus, it is contrary to the Constitution. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the only authority for resolving this anomaly. It can't be thought of in the legal state of law that parliament has agreed to a law proposal that has engaged in such absurdity, that eliminates the independence of the judiciary, its neutrality. Therefore, we ask that the High Assembly consider this matter, and we ask that they support our proposal. But improvements have become that, in Turkey, even to pronounce the independence of the judiciary and its neutrality is routine. But that's the highest value in the state of law as a democratic value, but every day everyone can say something. And today, Mr. President, he's not giving the Constitutional Court's name, but he's not leaving word to the President. The day before, I was looking for justice. It comes out, the square, the platform talks, but it is the call of those seeking justice, it is the cry of those seeking justice, and it also leads to efforts to make justice a part of the AKP. The AKP government, which was established in its initiative, also leads to its cry for justice. My dear friends, the way things are, it's not right. When the day comes, you will be forced to take refuge as a safe haven. When that happens, you have judges in Turkey. He says we should build an independent and neutral judiciary together, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0016par0071	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 38. We propose and propose the addition of the declaration "By receiving the opinion of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors" following the "at the request of the president" of the clause B). Dilek Akagün Yilmaz and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0017par0078	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0016par0079	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0018par0080	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0016par0081	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0019par0084	Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers are starting to make the laws of the Justice and Development Party's government, especially in the judicial mechanism, in the organization structure of the judiciary, in the search for good law or for justice in Turkey. In fact, the structure of the first-degree courts of the judiciary and the structure of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court are often unsustainable as a rule, but the Justice and Development Party's rule has made it a habit and has made it a rule. Here, the virtue of surrendering to justice has been brought to fruition with the aim of bringing justice to justice. And today, we often watch police government applications on television. At around 11 p.m. today, at the Dikmen gate of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Republican People's Party youth groups faced the provocation and attack of police chiefs during protests against the press' statement. Imagine that the police of this country are obliged to allow citizens to exercise the right to hold meetings and demonstration march defined in the Constitution. It is defined as a right to conduct meetings and demonstrations in both the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations, as well as our Constitution. It is the duty of the state to ensure the use of that right, the duty of justice, the duty of the police in the first place. And it's unacceptable for those police officers to attack young people in front of us. In fact, it's not an isolated, independent event. This is just one of the practices of the ruling dictatorial administration of the Justice and Development Party in Turkey. The judicial package that we are discussing, in fact, is known today, not because of a good search for law, but because of a sense of judgment, even though it is done under the name "democratization" or under the name "resolving the problems of the judiciary" or by speeding up the judiciary. In fact, the friends who made this offer know that this is the case. We're dealing with a law-making technique, Mr. Prime Minister, which says this package was discussed in the Council of Ministers for eight hours, but it doesn't come as a bill. If eight hours have been discussed at the Council of Ministers, then why is this presented with the signature of fellow MPs? We've seen in the commission, my friends, that the relevant institutions and institutions are brought to commissions without their opinions, but on the other hand, the motions made by the ministry bureaucrats are flying in the air, and even our friends who signed those motions, they can't explain them rightly, and the ministry bureaucrats have to explain those motions. First of all, as the Speaker said, the way to make this law is not moral, let alone legal and legal, it's not moral. My dear friends, the Justice and Development Party, which came to power using the blessings of democracy, has now destroyed democracy by taking advantage of these opportunities that democracy has known. The state of law in this country is dry. Now we're going to become authorities, we're going to be police states. Words like that don't apply at all. Turkey has moved away from being a state of law. Today, Turkey is a police state, a dictatorial government exists in this country. These laws are laws brought to make the dictatorship permanent, only to legalize the actual situation. So that's what this offer is all about. The Justice Academy, as Mr. Faruk Bal said, is run and directed by the Ministry of Justice. Now they're bringing in this arrangement. Therefore, we ask for the acceptance of our motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0020par0092	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that on the days of which they gave the term of the lecture, the declaration of the 38th article of the Law Proposal, which is listed in the 655th Amendment, should be changed and changed in the form of the period on the days of the courses. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0021par0099	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0020par0100	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0022par0101	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0020par0102	Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0023par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, you know, 10 percent of the election dam was built by the juntas, the Kenan Universe. This 10% election dam was built at the time by a party of morons, who had been brought to power alone. It was also envisioned that some sections would be chosen and that their will would be reflected in parliament would be prevented. Thirty-four years have passed in this process, and these election dams have not been removed. These dams stood before fair representation and the free will of the nation. In 2007, we entered the elections independently and came to parliament and formed a group. At the time, I remember, because we were going to run independently, there were two parties in the Parliament in 2002 --AK PARTY and CHP -- they immediately joined together and made a law order for independent ballots to be on the list, and it was implemented in our election. After that, we were elected in 2011, and on the independent ballot, our name, our last name, was spelled small with nine points, so it could not be read, it could be read with a lens. However, in the 2002 elections, the current President, Mr. Erdogan, had not been able to enter the elections because he was banned. In 2001, a sentence was issued in the last chapter of Article 67 of the Constitution, which would not be carried out in the elections if the laws were changed a year before the elections. The first exception was that the CHP and the EC PARTY agreed in 2002, making a special law for Mr. Erdoğan, making exceptions, putting it into the Constitution as a temporary clause. This interim material was 27/12/2002, and it said: "The last joke of the Constitution 67 is not applied in the first interim elections in the 22nd term. " Now we say to the High Council, "Come, let's raise these election dams for the nation." If we remove these election dams, we will allow the people's will to reflect freely on the House. Make it a zero dam, anyone who gets a vote to be a congressman, come to this House and represent those who choose him, but it turns out... You know, guys, the worst of burglaries is stealing votes. There's nothing worse than stealing votes: stealing people's will. We've seen hundreds of congressmen sitting on these benchs because of the dam, where we've been elected by 100 votes. Let's end this injustice. If we put an end to this injustice, we'll be preventing the people's will from being stolen, and in 2015 we'll be making a democratic choice. This is our call to you. Again, the European Court of Human Rights made a decision yesterday, saying that you discriminate against Alevis. In the 21st century, discrimination, religion, faith... look, look, it says, "gender, race, faith, etc.," there's a ban on discrimination. It's World Human Rights Day on December 10th. Yes, it's not a religious center. Because you say it's not a religious center, you pay for electricity to the houses, but you give it to mosques, churches, synagogues for free. He applied for a foundation and Turkey became a prisoner. Does it suit your conscience to be a prisoner in Turkey, where, in the 21st century, there is discrimination, especially the Flame of millions of your citizens, where they consider their mosques a place of religious worship? Are you happy with that? Turkey is still condemned for discrimination in the 21st century, condemned for freedom of faith! This disgrace, which has been condemned for violating Articles 9 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, is now being handled by the Ministry of Justice, I hope, with respect.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0024par0112	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 39. We offer and propose that a month's notice in the article be changed to two months' notice. Dilek Akagün Yılmaz Ömer Suha Aldan Turgut Dibek Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same; I'm going to read them and process them together. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose that Article 39 of Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Hasip Kaplan Ertuğru Furçı The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0025par0137	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0024par0138	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0026par0139	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0024par0140	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motions is the MP of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0027par0143	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I had a fellow citizen, his name was Didem Yaylalı. It was ideal to be a lawyer, and it was his greatest desire to rule. He graduated from law school, took the judge's exam, won it; received the necessary training, interned, and was never appointed as a judge while waiting to begin his duties. As a result, he committed suicide in grief that he could not achieve his ideal under heavy psychological pressure. This was one of the most important examples of human rights violations among AKP government practices in Turkey. The violations of rights were so common that even judges in charge of protecting rights were being violated, as well as their rights. Dear friends, we all know the reason and wisdom of this. This was the elimination of the Constitutional Amendment and the judiciary's existing means of balance and control within it and the handover of the judiciary to a group in which you were in an alliance on the days of the march together. The judgment, which lacks self-control and self-control, of course I said, was the number one altar of rights violations from the whistle point I stole. Now you're making a law for one to eliminate one of these rights violations. The fundamental principle of the law, however, is clear: Laws, the principle of equality, are adopted according to the principle of generality, which cannot be passed. So you've destroyed the legal order at such a level that even you, on your conscience, feel the need to enact a law against a victim who was ultimately destroyed. What about the millions back there, the millions that have been violated? What about those who can't reach you, screaming justice? There's no answer to that. My dear friends, this is what AKP has brought Turkey to its destination. On top of that, now, you're looking for a criminal, even though you're yourself. When you have to answer to yourself and deal with yourself and confront yourself for the 2010 Constitutional amendment that has upset the judicial order, the legal order in this regard, you blame it on the other side. You put the blame on the other side, you don't get enough of it, you're fighting a war against it. My dear friends, is the struggle for sovereignty so simple, so easy, so easy, so cheap that it can be pronounced at such a moment's notice? The Turkish nation knows how to fight the invasion, how to build the spirit of Kuvaimillia. If you're going to fight for a will, there is a PKK terrorist organization today demanding to share sovereignty over the land of the Republic of Turkey, built with the spirit of Kuvaimilliya. He's building a court as an example of the dominant element's own behavior, taking soldiers, collecting taxes, planting flags, building schools, all of which are related to the domain of control. If you're going to do it for real, you're going to have to fight it. So, it's not the way you're going. I advise you to return this path at once, with all due respect.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0028par0150	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked for the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0029par0153	Congressmans, we'll have two or three items coming our way. I suggest that all lawmakers of the AK PARTY come to the front. Come to the front row and stand behind this proposal with your hands up. So I'm inviting you to come here, and let the attorney here first accept this clause that prohibits lawyers from examining the file. Since you are the owner of the proposal, you will stand by it with courage. I'm telling you, if you have the courage to give a photo here, come forward and give me a picture of your right to counsel, your right to defend, your sacred right to defend, how you drown your own profession with your own hands. This is a warning from us. We talked about it last time, and I'm telling you again: either you resign from law school or your profession or don't raise your hand, or if you raise your hand, do it with courage. Let all your barmen know you, that's one. It's a terrible thing. Because, underneath the offer here, really, when I look at it, there are lawyers. Now, under this offer, this is the first time I've seen a congressman banning himself. Let the right of defense be limited, let him examine the case papers; let the prosecution and the defense judge not be equal, and let the Court of Europe's decision -- I've just read it -- come here, despite the European Convention on Human Rights, to sit on the front line and raise their hands. You're gonna stand behind it, even if it's wrong, and you're gonna defend it, that's one. Second: May God not make you suspicious. Look, the next item is reasonable doubt. Let not God cause you to be in a state of doubt, nor let your children be down, nor let your uncles, nor your uncles, nor your aunts, make you suspicious. Then you'll understand that you'll suffer for a security guard, a gendarme, a police officer, acting like a reasonable suspect, taking him in at his own convenience, raiding his house at any time, arresting him at any time, bringing him in at any time, stopping his vehicle at any time, stopping his vehicle at any time, saying, "Open the hood, open the engine!" You'll suffer for hours of searching his engine; you'll suffer as a family, you'll suffer as a AKP community. We've got 50 percent of the votes. You say, "You'll get 50 percent." People will come back to you when you put them up to 50 percent, and they'll say, "Why did you make these laws?" That's part of it. The second side: the seizure, the seizure of the assets of every citizen who criticises the government. Robespierre had passed the guillotine law, you know, with his head blown off in the guillotine. Now, ISIS, DAİŞ, you know, they brought the knife method, they're guillotines. His own head went through the guillotine law. These laws... your immunity will be lifted, the 2015 elections are five months away, and we won't be long, and you'll be walking down the street like a normal citizen. 300,000 cops, 700,000 with the gendarmes, and there'll be people in them who don't like your views, and they'll think you're suspicious. Then what are you going to do? I'll say, "God bless you." But you'll see how the law you passed after it happened to you has been passed to you. It's about three or four laws... and I'm about to go to Istanbul, but I'll follow from there. I'm also telling the photographers, please, especially when you raise your hand to the lawmakers, I'd appreciate it if you'd take a picture when you say yes. I'm really gonna take this to your bar, and I'm telling you right here. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit02spe0030par0161	Thank you. YUSUF HALLOWER (Kayseri). -.. We've got enough to decide... Mr. President. I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes. The decision was requested, and I'm going to call. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit03spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision of the two motions on Article 39 of the Law Proposal No. 655 was not sufficient. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0030par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The second vote of two similar motions on Article 39 of Law Proposal No. 655 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, there are no motions. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The framework of Law Proposal 655 is 39. We offer and propose that a month's notice in the article be changed to two months' notice. Ilhan Cihaner (Marine) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0031par0011	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0030par0012	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0032par0013	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0030par0014	Ilhan Cihaner, Denizli MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0033par0017	I salute everyone. There was a motto, a concept that the practitioners used the most to interpret a text of the law: the lawmaker does not engage with the absurd. Of course, especially in this period of time, it would not be appropriate for us to make this determination regarding a number of laws that the government has passed, but why did this clause come, if it is not in question of an absurdity? This is a provision of compensation, especially for the injustices created by a structure organized at the Academy of Justice. A judge who was unfairly deemed a failure in the Justice Academy process, to solve the problem with prosecutors. We agree on this principle, but we ask that a month be extended to two months so that the victims can better prepare for the test they're about to take. But here's one thing that's been ignored: the government is as responsible for this process as it is for the structure that is organized at the Academy of Justice. So I especially want to bring up a concept that the government has been using a lot lately, the concept of apology. So many judges, you've victimized the prosecutor, so many judges, prosecutors, they've been ticketed, they've been punished, they've had some investigations they didn't deserve. Our Didem Yaylalı friend was not even accepted into the profession and had to commit suicide as a result of the tagging at the Academy of Justice. Like this, Tolga Onur, the names Nebi Plague are the first names I can think of. For example, would the Justice Department like to apologize to these names? Now that you're using this thing so much, I think an apology from the families of these people, from the people who feel sorry for them is essential because you were in charge of politics. You can't just throw it to the Fethullah Laughing congregation, at least your moral and political responsibility. I'd just like to point out that the Justice Academy, the judge who received theoretical education in the faculty, is a place where prosecutors enter to prepare for practice and occupation. They're taking the test, and there's a test on their way out, and the ideal is that the judge at this Justice Academy is subject to an education in the ethics of the prosecutors about how justice is to be done. However, after the 2010 referendum in particular, the judge was set up as a torque machine to make prosecutors one type, to make them civil, and judges, according to their lifestyle, the prosecutors were tagged by their political views. For that exact purpose, in the first test in 2011, perhaps Turkey, or even in the history of the world, something has happened, 314 people who have taken the test have failed. However, a Supreme Court imam, coded by one of the former Justice Ministers to be responsible for this incident, was mentioned, and is responsible for these events. However, no active, fair, fast investigation has been conducted at the Justice Academy or at the Supreme Court or at the Ministry of Justice. We don't think it would matter much to him, the things that have been done. If a real compensation is being considered, if the judge is really being asked to be a prosecutor's justice and legal warrior, then the Justice Academy must be transformed into a structure where the prosecutor's independence will be maintained, not like a torque machine, but like a safety academy. Gene, as you know, there are major obstacles to the organisation of judges and prosecutors in Turkey. A few days ago, Ankara Governorate filed a closing suit against the Justices Union. However, in the European Union progress report, the government suggested that the Union of Judges was allowed and that this union was established as a step towards democratisation. However, the Union of Judges is still not recognized by the government, but viceroy of the government has filed a mistrial and a mistrial. If we don't want the Justice Academy to be a tornado for those who get that power, we have to make sure that prosecutors have their own self-organization, professional organization. The ILO Convention and Article 90 of the Constitution also allow the judge and prosecutor's union. Otherwise, I'd say we'd have more laws like this. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0034par0027	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 40th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 40. Article 5235 adds 3 to Article 9 of Article 9 of the Law on the Foundation, Duty and Authority of the District Courts. in the sentence: "the apartments can't send files to another apartment on account of the work department." "There is no objection to the job, the courts can't send the files to another apartment because of this division of business." We propose that it be changed into form. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar S. Nevzat Don't Fear Congressmans, I'm going to read the two motions I'm going to read in the same manner, and I'm going to study them and process them together. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We offer and propose that Article 40 of the current Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı The secret is Darayya Leader Erol Dora Demir Çelik The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0035par0053	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0034par0054	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0036par0055	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0034par0056	It's Iron Steel, Müsh MP who wants to speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0037par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love on behalf of myself and my party. I have made a motion to make a statement that the amendment to the Supreme Council of Judges in 655 rows is a bit of a subject worth commenting on. First of all, it's about legislation, judgment and execution; it's about the independence of men that we have to take care of for the functioning of democracy. The law has no more responsibility than to carry out the law on the basis of the law-making power of society to meet its basic needs, to carry out the law, to carry out the law's mandate, to carry it out. However, despite the passing application of today's democracy, the AKP government has been doing its 12 years, and it seems that they are trying to prepare the substructure of the totalitarian regime, which serves the rule of governance by transforming legislation and judgment into a mechanism that is subject to governance in the coming years. Although the Constitutional Court voiced that the issue would be raised in the coming days on the 10 per cent election threshold yesterday or the day before, its responses by the ministers, the ministers, the ordinary AKP lawmakers are incomprehensible. The Constitutional Court is obliged to carry out its duties from the Constitutional Court to discuss its compliance with the Constitution, but since it does not recognise its decision, we have encountered individuals, politicians who are entitled to determine it as invalid. If you don't recognize him, if he doesn't have a ruling, why does the Constitutional Court have one? Why do we put up with the Constitutional Court if it's not on the government, and it's not on the minister? Are we on the basis of carrying out activities that exist in a democratic legal state, and despite our claim, we're trying to subjugate society with anti-democratic practices, ceberut, authoritarian state mentality? The twelve-year-old AKP practice initiated by Mr. President appears to have been in a position to strip off totalitarianism, which has been removed from the tradition of democracy, which should be open to discussion, with antidemocratic practices, as well as antidemocratic practices. Now in his eyes, instead of the independence of judgment, the independence of law, the parallel and complementary understanding of men, there is an understanding that everything meets in one person, one center, which is a great risk to both our country and the people in our country and our society. There will be no freedom, no peace, no justice. How can we, as citizens, trust who, after the judgment is deemed nullified by the concerned ministers, which is responsible for dismantling justice? Can we claim that a country where the court's verdict is nullified is being run democratically? We see the same thing in the peaceful, democratic solution of the Kurdish problem, in the approach to the Alevi problem. Look, a month before that, the European Court of Human Rights issued a decision in a statement condemning Turkey's mandatory religion lesson. As of today, they have reached an agreement that the Alevis are being discriminated against by the state in carrying out their beliefs, especially in the mosques. In power for 12 years, the AKP, which claims to solve the Alevi problem with eight works, has taken no further steps than to reassure the Alekis that hope can solve their problems with new workshops. It is a place of worship for the Alevi. They are for other religions, for other religions, for cultures, for their cultural lives, for their values, for their beliefs, for their cultural lives, at the point where there is no need to live together in peace. To embrace both the Alekis and the Kurds and the women and the poor and the laborer with the understanding of equal, free citizens in the state; to resolve their accumulated historical, political, social problems. If justice is what needs to be done, it means nothing more, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0038par0070	Thank you. Ali Riza Ozturk, our MP, who wants to speak on the same motions.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0039par0072	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, with this clause, new special authorities are being charged in the criminal court. In fact, the special authorities, removed with a loud noise, are quietly being re-activated. While the area of criminal justice is being cited as grounds for residency, it is clear that there is no purpose to major in it, and that the courts will not really be in the implementation of the decision-making unit. In fact, in view of this arrangement, it is clear that the goal is to create special authorities in secret. Now, before that, we had made a change in Article 10 of Law 6460 of 14/4/2013, and in Article 5 of the same law, where we had gone to a fellowship between the courts of the law. For example, the civil courts were tasked to handle certain cases within themselves, including the main courts of law, the trade courts themselves, the types of cases that would be chosen in terms of the cases they were looking at. In regard to the same law, HSYK was assigned to arrange the same temporary clauses within six months, but so far no regulation has been made. In terms of criminal courts, regulations made in the court of law at that time would be contrary to the Constitution, so the principle of the natural judge would be damaged, which was not considered appropriate and was not regulated in the field of punishment. Now, the judiciary has already been politicized by the prior consultation of the judicial judges, and this arrangement, which has now been envisioned as another reflection of this politicisation effort here, is nothing more than a re-organisation of previous state security courts, special authorities courts and terrorist courts. Dear lawmakers, with this kind of practice, adding additional bell or joke to the inside of a general law is nothing more than the goal of all law-breaking and cheating ways in this regard. In this way, political actors will be disabled, and all roads will be covered concerning the control of the laws set by the Constitution. In fact, the changes made in this package of judgments are neither intended to speed up the judiciary nor to resolve the problems in the judiciary. This is a revenge package. You've occupied the state, captured it, committed a lot of unlawful acts, along with the Fethullah Gulen congregation, which you call parallel structures. Now, you're making a legal arrangement that creates the infrastructure of the operation that you want to do in the government against people you put in your hands, feed and grow, and who are called parallel structures by you, against judges, against prosecutors, against police. It's that obvious. Dear lawmakers, in fact, there are no legal arrangements for revenge, hostile feelings, and I specifically said the courts -- it is not acceptable to play so much with the organization structure and make it a rule. This must be a long-lived arrangement of the agency's laws, but your needs, since the needs of power change every day, you look at it and its arrangement in accordance with today's needs, when tomorrow's needs are different, it can be fundamentally opposite. In fact, we have the same congressmen signing the same legislation. So, first, they can sign a completely opposite proposal, regardless of what they say on the commissions, what they predict on the bill. I'm saying I don't associate it with the legal identity and the legal ethics. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0040par0080	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 40. In accordance with Article 5235, it is added to Article 9 of Article 3 of Article 9 of the Law on the Establishment and Authority of District Courts in the First Grade Courts of Adliment No. 5235. in the sentence: "the apartments can't send files to another apartment on account of the work department." "There is no objection to the job, the courts can't send the files to another apartment because of this work department." We propose that it be changed into form. S. Nevzat Korkmaz (Isparta) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0041par0088	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0040par0089	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0042par0090	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0040par0091	Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0043par0094	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, the government's organization will not survive billions of dollars in budgets, nor will the armies, nor the tanks, nor the cannons, nor the rifles that are owned. Of course, these are important things for a state and for a state to live on, but justice is the most important force that sustains the state. historians attribute the most important quality of the Ottoman State, which has survived for six centuries, to the institution of justice. His belief that his citizens are fair and that he has been treated with justice is the most important thing for a state to live on. That's why justice is the foundation of property. The foundation of property, the state, is the billion-dollar illegal palaces owned, $200 million private planes, not billions of dollars in government vehicles, the government doesn't get credit for them. The glory that brought Great Britain to its knees, which did not set the sun on it, is the humility of Gandhi, the desire of justice for all. If the number of rooms had been earned, dear friends, then we'd have to ask, why not a thousand rooms instead of two? You didn't make a thousand rooms? Mr. Erdogan says he wants justice. As a certain shoe cutter carves to himself, everyone stays silent under injustice while moaning, his voice rises after December 17th and 25th, and justice comes to mind. When we make the 2010 Constitutional Amendment, we bring the rule of law. Didn't you say, didn't you ask the nation to vote for it? It's been four years, so let's stop this healing, and there's no worse outcome? Mr. Erdogan wants justice. He's actually complaining about himself, explaining what he's done to the judiciary. In a country where the president complains about justice, who will he tell about the citizen on the street? If the trust in the justice institution in this country is down to 28 per cent, can it be said of the state? Right now, the citizen on the street, unfortunately, has a strong belief that the fittest is right, not right. The main reason for this is that after the 17-25 December corruption incidents, the government's approach to destroying the justice mechanism is to undermine the court, to intervene with the judge, to interfere with the prosecutor. There's a survey by TUSIAAD in the business world, dear friends. Those who think there is no corruption or bribery in the country say there is only 22 per cent, so there is 80 per cent of bribery in the country, and there is corruption in the country. This is the perception of the state run by the AKP. One of the reasons that caused corruption, according to this survey, is that legal legislation -- indeed remarkable and upsetting -- has not been implemented. So, dear friends, people say to our Assembly that no matter what arrangement you make, the citizen has no faith in the legitimate power of the state. So, you see, dear friends, it's not just the wealth that resets in villas, it's the justice that resets. According to this survey, corruption is believed to be the largest in the transportation sector. Citizen, fast trains, Marmaray, airports, double road construction, Marmaray contracts, buying in the area of transportation, communications, communications, thinks that privatisations are not clean, precious friends, they don't think, they even see it. He sees there's corruption, but why doesn't he report it? Yeah, that's interesting, too. Because he thinks the tip won't pan out, he thinks his cover will be blown. The reason for this is that my dear friends, the citizen, say that the fish stink all over again. The tops aren't clean, so who should we complain to? What's the matter? Someone's pulling the strings. That's exactly what we mean when we say you've murdered justice, you've finished the state. Once again, we call on the Prime Minister and AKP, especially the President, to withdraw your hand from the judiciary. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0044par0105	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 41. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article into,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Turgut Dibek Ömer Süha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Sky Ali Riza Özturk Orhan Straight Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same property, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of other proposals are: Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0045par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0044par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0046par0132	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0044par0133	Erol Dora, Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0047par0136	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 41st Article of the proposal of the law. I salute the General Assembly. The 41st amendment of the proposal of the law is intended to change the statement of doubt based on concrete evidence in Article 116 of the Penal Code. Thus, after the December 17th-25th investigation, the government was rescinded from the change in haste and returned to its former state. In other words, the legal basis for making the search decisions easier by the government's organised and restructured HSYK and more guaranteed justices. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's judicial history is filled with exceptional examples of what judges find reasonable, while a change in this direction is rightly a concern for the preservation of private life. What makes this amendment even more ironic is the strong doubt of the law based on concrete evidence, the fact that nine months ago, with the law adopted on February 21, 2014, the AK PARTI government again established it. At the beginning of the agenda of corruption and bribery investigations on December 17-25, the AK PARTI government did not find the previous statement of the law to be sufficient doubt and added the condition of strong doubt based on concrete evidence to limit its search warrant. With the December 17th and December 25th investigations closed, nine months of solid evidence are coming to an end, so we return back to February 21st. The law proposal submitted to parliament regarding this matter was included in the statement given by the EC PARTI government in February of last February: "An important regulation to prevent violations of the right to freedom and security of the person held in Article 19 of the Constitution and the right to its right to freedom and security in order to be applied to protection measures such as detention, arrest, search and seizure. In this way, such protection measures will be avoided by applying for freedom and security due to an abstract number of doubts. Taking persons into custody with a simple suspicion can lead to a number of damages and violations of rights if it is mandatory for an investigation, based solely on the presence of signs that could suggest that the person committed a crime. The decision to detain the 91st article of the Penal Code (Criminal Law) with the amendment intended to be carried out in the joke (2) depends on the presence of concrete evidence to show that the crime was committed instead of the signs that might suggest that the crime had been committed. In this way, the republic's prosecutor will have to rely on concrete evidence that a crime has been committed so that he can't make a detention order based solely on the evidence that the person may have committed a crime if it is mandatory to investigate. The following statements were on the basis of the government's proposed law last February. Nine months ago, the government was so-called patrons of human rights and freedom, but where we come from, they saw no harm in returning to antidemocratic practices. In this regard, the EC PARTY government has launched practices that will create hope and hope for democracy and human rights in the public and then reverse those hopes. Dear lawmakers, our country has signed and approved basic contracts on human rights and freedom, and has approved the European Convention on Human Rights, which stipulates judicial control of human rights violations, and has granted the European Court of Human Rights an individual application. The following issues have also become mandatory rules of internal law according to Article 90 of the Constitution. In this direction, the government must return to modern, universal law norms and practices instead of antidemocratic practices. Given the international contracts he signed and the European Court of Human Rights proceedings, he says the law must be passed, and I salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0048par0144	Thank you. Omer Süha Aldan, MP of Müğla who wants to speak on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Aldan.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0049par0148	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're going back to the change we made last February. In my speech at the time, I gave a statement as follows: "There are simple concepts in the judgment of the sentence,,, makoul,,, and, strong doubt." I explained with one example: "There is a police report, a woman's purse is stolen, a person's description is given; the police finds someone who is suitable for the description of someone running under her seat with an object. The first report is simple doubt; it is reasonable doubt that the police will see this person. After he was caught, he said: "Aunt Filanca had left his bag at home, and I was taking it to him." He says, "That's enough doubt, but when a person says in his statement at the police station, "Yes, I stole this bag." If he says, it's strong doubt based on concrete evidence. Therefore, if you accept such an understanding, you will not be able to fight crime. In February, the exact point that I highlighted there was that there must always be a balance between the fight against crime and the freedom of the individual. I said so, but despite our opposition, the change has been made, and now it's going back. In public, this definition of reasonable doubt was a highly reactive description, and everyone is reacting. At this point, although the concept of reasonable doubt is also accepted by the European Court of Human Rights, we would like to propose that this statement be changed to. This is both important for the care needed in the search and for the fight against crime. If the concept of sufficient doubt is established in practice, then we are significantly ahead of human rights and freedom interventions in Turkey. Also, the concept of strong doubt based on concrete evidence has not been fulfilled enough in practice. An example is that most policemen' homes were searched at dawn, 90 percent of those police officers are now free, so there is no strong doubt about them based on concrete evidence. One of our biggest problems in Turkey is practice. Politics, the more effective the administration is on the judiciary, the more calls are made or not made. At the same time, the December 25th search warrants have been withdrawn, although the concept of reasonable doubt has been reversed. Dear lawmakers, such legal arrangements are always addressed as such, while concepts of December 17th, December 25th are mentioned. In fact, none of these arrangements were made for December 17th. The houses of those subject to the December 17 investigation have been searched, taken into custody, arrested, four former ministers linked to them are currently subject to investigation under the Supreme Court. In fact, these legal arrangements were made for December 25th. You have to put it right. The search decisions issued on December 25 have not been met, it has not been met for one person, it has not been fulfilled for one person's family, it has not been fulfilled for one person's enrichment. We need to see this very well.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0050par0151	Who is it?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0049par0152	This blow is not marbe. We've made such a legal arrangement, the days and months of this House, for the sake of just one man, let us know that.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0050par0153	Who is it? I'm curious.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0051par0154	Do we know that person?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0049par0155	You all know that person. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0052par0158	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of Law Proposal 655 be removed from the proposal text. Emin Çınar (Castamon) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0053par0165	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0052par0166	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0054par0167	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0052par0168	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0055par0171	Mr. President, we've come to the most important issue of this law proposal. In February 2014, Turkey abandoned its concept of reasonable doubt, which exists in our law, which shows the scale for arrests, search measures that exist in international law, and instead passed on to the concept of strong doubt based on concrete evidence. What happened? What happened? What happened was that during the December 17th-25th operations, the operation began about the ministers' children's children's bedrooms, shoeboxes, luggage, backpacks, millions of dollars. This operation dates back to four ministers of the AKP government, their children and the Prime Minister of that period. In a sudden hurry, with great fear, the AKP began to disrupt its rule of law like an elephant entering an embezzler's shop. First, he changed the Judiciary of the Judiciary, where direct ministers, minister-controlled people, had access to these files; the evidence was identified, possible suspects were identified, and then operations followed. These operations -- I want to list them with their names -- to make good use of the time -- the cops were destroyed, the prosecutors were destroyed, the judges were disbanded, the rules of law were broken. The Penal Code has been changed, the Internet Law has been changed, the HSYK Law has been changed, the bags have been put into the law to prevent this operation, so there's nothing left in the ziccan store that hasn't been broken. Here, one of the broken spills was reasonable doubt. Then we asked why you're changing it. The answer was not reasonable; the answer to change reasonable doubt was not reasonable, for the intent was not pure. Because the goal was to protect today's President, his son and other ministers and children, whom he instructed to reset his money. To that end, they made it clear that the judgment was based on concrete evidence of a strong suspicion to tie his hands as a prosecutor and judge, both as a police officer and as a judge. It was clear that nothing was going to happen, so you came here, and nothing is going to happen. But your goal is to do nothing to normal suspects, so let's not change that. Now, with these operations, you've taken all the powers; you've changed the judicial police, you've changed the judge, you've changed the prosecutor, you've regulated the law, you've organized the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the HSYK -- with these laws, you've organized the judicial judges, and then there's a crowd you're going to attack, the Fethullah Gulen congregation. You declare your sovereignty against the Fethullah Gulen congregation, and they will be held as reasonable suspects, so that the strong doubt that protects you will not benefit from the fact that it has been supported by concrete evidence. Is that right? Is this the show? Anyone who commits a crime has the right to a fair trial, and everyone will benefit from the rights you take. You took advantage of it, it's over, my test's up, nobody can drink water but this fountain, can that happen? Now, this law lacks so much democratic legitimacy, so much political morality, it reveals what human rights and freedoms have become in the hands of the AKP. Now, in this logic, the situation created by the non-democratic, non-political morality, the way one uses their freedoms to AKP policies is a threat; the fundamental rights and freedoms under threat and the needs of a threatened democratic society. To protect society and democracy from this threat, this clause must remain in effect. I'd like to share with you the measurements of strong doubt based on concrete evidence that will remain in place in the following articles. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0056par0178	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 42, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 42nd Amendment proposal for the current 655 rows. In accordance with Article 5271, we propose and propose that the second joke (a) of Article 128 (a) of the changed Law shall be replaced in the following way. (17-In case the penal code against the constitutional order and the functioning of this order is carried out with algebra and violence on Articles 309, 311, 311, 313, 314, 315 and 316 Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemallettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Congressmans, I'm going to take the two motions I'm going to now read in the same context, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 42 of Law 655 be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Ertugrul Kürklı Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk From the heart to the heart Orhan Straight Ali Original Air Date on April 24, 2015 Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0057par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0056par0203	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0058par0204	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0056par0205	İstanbul MP Levent Tüzzel has asked for a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0059par0207	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, we're discussing a law proposed by the government to solve the problems of the judiciary, which are widely discussed in public. In fact, of course, for quite some time now, it's obvious that the government has brought these arrangements to solve their own problems rather than solve the problems of the judiciary. As you know, we're going through a process of walking order, current state structure, especially political debates in the judiciary and the high judiciary, and, depending on that, interference. In particular, the government and other lawmakers who are referring to this issue say that the allegations of corruption against the government and some ministers are coming to light, and the government wants to strengthen its hand, and the way to strengthen its own rights under the name of compensation, compensation, and weapons-like regulations, in the face of a gag order to bring a gag order against the work of the commission, which has been established to investigate corruption against these ministers. But, we know very well that the main thing is, on the one hand, to eliminate the opposition elements outside his own view of the judiciary, to reduce them to a minority, to strengthen the judicial class of understanding in the high judiciary, but on the other hand to suppress social opposition, especially after Gezi, after the people's anger, after the response of the people in June, after the search for democracy and freedom, after the search for all of this -- the people's movement in the streets -- is a provocation and an attempt against government, and after that, after that, the voice of the ruler, the one who moves, the one who has a word, the other, will be subjected to immediate trial, is needed. Here's what we're talking about -- giving up the concept of strong doubt now that the power needs to contain the streets now -- the strong doubt he needs during corruption investigations, and getting away from the strong doubt and court decisions he needs, very easily, to transfer things to prosecutors, to criminal courts, to arrest them, to look for them, to look for them, to seek intelligence activities, to draw everything into a line that the government wants. The government wants to be freed from all crimes committed on behalf of the state, crimes against society, and to develop a protection mechanism. That's what happens in all the logic of this law. To interpret democracy in their own way and to suppress the struggle for democracy that is directed at them, nothing more. In order not to look for a five-year term in the judiciary, but to reduce it to two years, to facilitate transitions from lawyers to prosecutors' class, to make similar parallel regulations in administrative court, and to present it as a fight against coupgers, conspirators, parallel state structures, which is actually increasing in society, especially with these bans that enhanced corruption and poverty, but nothing will eliminate this growing opposition. The palaces of the Sultanate, the presidential palaces that you have built with numbers of over 1.5 billion, are in the public eye. People were thrown into the streets with hungry, open, miserable, torn shoes. What's the government doing? All this injustice, this chasm, as long as there's this imbalance, the judge, no matter how many times you multiply the prosecutor's class, no matter how much you increase your offices in the Supreme Court, corruption, poverty and prohibitions in this society will not end. I'm saying that these laws, these proposals of the law, they won't exonerate you. And I say that as long as you don't abandon these sultanial regimes, these presidential aspirations, these monotheistic governance understandings, the public forces, the workers, the workers, the workers will continue to oppose you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0060par0212	Thank you. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0061par0216	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I begin my remarks, I salute the General Assembly. My dear friends, the 42nd article of the proposal I have promised is a clause in the matter of repossession and repossession. What does it say, what do you bring? Let's call it a coup attempt against the government -- in the language that the public understands -- when such a crime is committed, these suspects can be seized for their possession, shipping, land, air transports, valuable documents, rights, purchases, safes, assets. You already have a coup paranoia, paranoia, with December 17, 25th. So, in any opposition tomorrow, sir, this is a coup attempt against the government. (When another minister is involved in corruption tomorrow, when an investigation into him begins, sir, they want to overthrow the government, it's a coup attempt against the government. Come on, we're going to start investigating; we're going to confiscate your goods, your purchases. You, now, with that logic... You know, the Market Group was in the street with the Turkish nation, protesting the government's wrong practices, the government's despotic practices. The indictment concerning the marketplace was written for the attempted overthrow of the government. By that logic, tomorrow, the prosecutor, who wrote it, will try to seize the property of the Bazaar. But I warn you, it turns, it shoots you; when you leave power tomorrow, someone will come, and after that, they will say that you are in a structure against the constitutional order of the republic, a organisation against the constitutional order of the state; all of you, your children, even your daughters' dowry, will seize the property. These are dangerous things, don't do these things, trust yourself, be transparent. Sir, you're bringing this arrangement to seize the assets, media organs, newspapers of the people you've been feeding and enriching until yesterday, because you're having problems with them. It's dangerous. Get over it, dear friends, have faith in yourself. If you're confident in any way, if you're not doing something contrary to the law, the Constitution, open up everything, transparently, in front of this Turkish nation, let everyone see, and let the perpetrator not get away with it. What do I mean? Now -- just now Mr. Tüzel said -- in the corruption, theft, bribery commission concerning the ministers, the court has issued a gag order at the request of the Commission's President, who is one of yours. What are you hiding? So your minister who got out of this commission himself goes, makes a statement, talks to the press. So one of your ministers says: "This is the tariffs' montage, dublaj." The other says: "No, brother, this is my evidence. These are my proofs. I didn't commit any crime." E, he's talking to himself. Why are you hiding it? This coroner's report wrote that the tapes were real, so there's no editing, no dublaj, no tampering. So, you're hiding this? I'm telling you right now, I'm on Parliament TV. Did you interrupt the broadcast of Parliament TV? Did Parliament TV, TBM TV act against this ban right now? So are you going to fine the Speaker, investigate him, or the Parliamentary TV officials? It's a meaningless, absurd understanding, an app. Fear not, friends. Before you, ministers have been tried, investigation commissions for the ministers have been set up. Earlier, you know, in a simple case, what happened to a phone call from Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz in connection with the sale of $600m's Canal Dā to the Turkish Trade Bank? He resigned, the government has changed, and the Parliament has referred him to the Supreme Court. I mean, it's not just you... At the time, no one said anything about a gag order, not a montage dublaj or anything like that. The more you say that, the more you sink. Let it become public. I'm going to continue my conversation on the next item, and I'm going to say some concrete things. I don't know why you're running, why you're afraid. Actually, I'd like to address the friends in the ruling party group: actually, friends, you're being treated unfairly. You have nine members there. I don't know how much information they're passing on to you. It's as if tomorrow, the 15-person Commission report will present you with a half-assed report in the Commission's report because there is no evidence, and you will have to decide according to this report. But you have to ask for it. Guys, bring it in, let's see, what is it? I'm a congressman, I'm voting tomorrow... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will I send these ministers to the Supreme Court or not? What I'm saying is that you need to bring him in, find out, so that I can find out on my conscience. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0062par0228	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 42nd Amendment proposal for the current 655 rows. In accordance with Article 5271, we propose and propose that the second joke (a) of Article 128 (a) of the changed Law shall be replaced in the following way. (17-In case the penal code against the constitutional order and the functioning of this order is carried out with algebra and violence on Articles 309, 311, 311, 313, 314, 315 and 316 Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0063par0236	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0062par0237	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0064par0238	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0062par0239	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0065par0242	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, another item is added to the catalogal crimes regarding measures to be carried out under Article 128. According to this, the penal code against constitutional order and the functioning of this order has also included these articles of the penal code. When the Justice and Development Party was in power, I said earlier that justice became a threat to which everyone could be sheltered as a safe haven. This substance is one of those threats. Remember, during the prime minister's term, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan was launched 26 times in an attempt to assassinate him. Mr. Bulent Arinc, in Chukurambar, five years ago, an investigation was launched under the name of the assassination, and in these investigations, some people were removed from their homes, from their homes, from their rights, from their rights. As a result, there are so many MPs, so many ministers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Does anyone know what the result of these investigations is? Is there anything public about it? No. It means that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has been investigated and is a weapon that can be used as a bullet for his claim. Here, this material is one of those weapons. My dear friends, who opposes the implementation of measures such as search, arrest, and arrest in crimes against the functioning of the constitutional order? No one would object. But Çukurambar is being assassinated. A police officer who claims to have dropped a piece of paper in his mouth. At the end of the operation, the government of the Republic of Turkey's military was infiltrated; it was entered into the apartment where the information of mobilisation was kept. The Turkish Armed Forces have been forced to renew, renew, as it were. So, what happened to the perpetrators of this crime? No one knows, no one cares. Is this Uganda? Is this Zimbabwe? Can't a government Prime Minister be assassinated and the public know what the consequences are, and the people's deputy can't have information? This is also a crime against constitutional order. When it is said that AKP is a threat to justice, let us at least limit it to maintaining and defending the basic rights and freedom of the citizen. If it involves algebra and violence on that border, how can it be applied to the Prime Minister, to the Deputy Prime Minister, to make up political manipulation, to create agendas, or to eliminate quash operations? My dear friends, so we've made a motion to the mind, conscience, right, law, that you won't find makeup, that all AKP MPs will vote negatively, I know. However, when your day comes, you're going to need it to be aligned with these substances -- in a certain process. Because if there is a democratic value in a country where so much injustice, so much lawlessness, if there is a democracy, this injustice, this injustice must be paid in court in this world. Then, come, if you have any respect for yourself, if you have any respect for the right, the law, if you have faith in the basic rights and freedoms of a citizen, and if you have any faith in them, if you have any respect for the oaths of the MP, if you have any respect for them, it is against the constitutional order of the people.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0066par0246	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 43, which I read according to the order of the arrival and process according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 43. In accordance with Article 5271, we propose and propose that the seventh joke (a) of Article 135 of the amendment law (a) be replaced in the following way. "15. Against the constitutional order and the functioning of this order, the penal code will be carried out in a state of extreme algebra and violence under Articles 309, 311, 313, 314, 314, 315 and 316. Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 43 of the proposed law shall be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader Ertugrul Furççı Erol Dora İdris Baluken "Article 135 of the Penal Code, Article 43 - 5271, has been changed in the following way. "Designation of communication, rest and recording Article 135 - (1) (Change first sentence: 25/5/2005 - 5353/17 md.) It's a crime. So in the investigation and prosecution, if there are strong reasons for suspicion of criminal activity and there is no other possible evidence, the court's decision can determine, listen, record, and assess communication through telecommunications of the suspect or the defendant. (2) There is no record of the connection between the suspect or the accused to those who might hesitate to testify. In the event that this is understood after the recording has taken place, the records taken will be destroyed immediately. (3) According to the first clause, the type of crime imposed is specified as the open identity, address, type of communication tool, code, type of measure, and duration of the crime that allows you to identify the connection. A precautionary decision can be made for more than two months; it can be extended for another month, only once. (Clean line: 25/5/2005 - 5353/17 md.) However, if it is deemed necessary to deal with crimes committed within the organisational activity, the court could extend the period another month, once again. (4) The location of the (...) mobile phone can be determined based on the court's decision to apprehend the suspect or the defendant. The decision on this issue states that the person's open identity, address, type of communication tool, phone number, code, type of measure, duration, and duration of the measure that allows them to identify the connection. The detection process can only be done for two months; it can only last one more month. (5) This joke has been dismissed. (6) The provisions for listening, recording and evaluation of signal information within this clause can only be applied in connection with the following crimes: a) Under the Turkish Penal Code; 1. Immigration smuggling and human trafficking (matter 79, 80), 2. Intentional murder (matter 81, 82, 83), 3. Torture (matter 94, 95), 4. Sexual assault (except the first joke, item 102), 5. Children's sexual abuse (matter 103), 6. The manufacture and trade of drugs or stimulant substances (matter 188) Seven. Fraud in currency (matter 197), 8. Establishing a criminal organization (except two, four, five, six, seven and eight), Nine. (Ek: 25/5/2005-5353/17 md.) Prostitution (matter 227, joke 3), 10. Conspiracy to the tender (matter 235), 11. Bribery (matter 252) 12. Acquitting the assets caused by crime (matter 282) 13. Weapons supply for armed organisations (matter 315), 14. Crimes Against State Secrets (matter 328, 329, 330, 333, 333, 334, 335, 336, 337). B) Charges of weapons trafficking (matter 12) in the Law on Firearms and Knifes and Other Tools. c) (Ek: 25/5/2005-5353/17 md.) Embezzlement of Article 22 of the Bank's Law (3) and (4) D) Charges defined by the Anti-Trafficking Act and which require a prison sentence. E) The crimes defined in Articles 68 and 74 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature. (7) No one can listen or record another's communication through telecommunications, except for the basics and procedures set in this article." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The proposed law on the amendment of the 655 Court of Justices and Prosecutors' Law to some Laws and Laws shall be "43. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text." Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk From the heart to the heart Orhan Straight Ali Original Air Date on April 24, 2015 Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali İhsan İkturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0067par0303	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0066par0304	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0068par0305	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0066par0306	Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked for a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0069par0309	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, I've just been interrupted. Now, I've made a promise on Article 43. Again, you're bringing in an arrangement to wiretap the suspect's phone in crimes against the government. It won't change much, I'll tell you that. So the important thing is to change understanding. On December 17, 25th, according to this law, the wiretaps were already taken according to the law, but when you go out, sir, they're edited, they're dublages. After you say that, nothing changes unless you change your mind. These matters need to be known especially by the ruling party group, but also by the public. Now, my dear friends, I'm showing you another document on the subject of banning, banning. Here, the man already says that it's true, they ask if it's true. He says yes. So Reza called you, took the 325 thousand to Conrad, the minister's advisor will get it, they'll do a survey to the AK PARTY. Is that true? He says yes. What is this? The counselor says: "Sister, in the June 2011 elections, a festival was held in a hall at Mersin Metropolitan City Convention Center, and we have promised. So there was a $325,000 expense, so we were going to give it to this agency, Reza sent it, so I bought it, and I gave it here. You should know. Won't he know about the public? He needs to know. So it's a lie? Riza Sarraf, the famous businessman, he's closing the deal; how does he close the deal? So, if you'll excuse me, he's closing the deal with the concubine. And he sendeth unto his servants from Dubai, and sendeth unto them women under him, that they may mark the ship of five thousand tons, that it may be exported. Your minister comes out here, too. Riza Sarraf is a good man. He's closed the deal. So I closed the deal, and if that's a crime, then I'm guilty. Yeah, do it, bro, close the deal, export it, nobody says anything, trade, increase exports, but no stealing, no bribes, no medals. So you need to know these things. Dear friends, you should know that tomorrow -- here at 27, the task of the Investigative Commission -- you will enter here in the booths, you will vote according to your conscience; you cannot only use it based on the half-assed report that nine of you, the majority of you, have sent in front of you. I'm telling you, I'm telling you again, look, whatever information you want, I'll give it to you, check it out, I've got it, guys. Sir, it's a dublaj, not a montage. With the official documents of the state currently in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, I'll give you one-on-one, you'll vote according to your conscience. Not with bans, you're not getting anywhere, you're getting more suspicious. If it's someone's fault, send it, brother, let it be cleared, it's judgment, not here. The House Investigation Commission's mission is to clean up, to find out if there's a crime or not, friends, and I'm warning you again. It's just, if there's enough doubt, if there's any sign of foul play, you'll send it to me as soon as you see it, brother. You will, and he will defend himself on the Supreme Court. So you can't decide here. Sir, the Parliamentary Investigation Commission can't say, "That's not the way to do it, it's not the way to do it, it's not the way to do it, it's the way to listen, it's the way to do it." Any signs of profit? I do. And, for God's sake, how many of you have come to your homes as Zafer Cavalan MP, tell me, for God's sake, in your Cabinet? She's going to Reza's house to be a guest. And when he goes, he sees the piano there. It's a beautiful piano, uh, what a beautiful piano. Let's send one right away. He's saying these things, they're in the statements, it's not a lie, we're not making them up. Well, it's being sent. I don't know if it's $37,500 or not, it's just a installment of the piano. Maybe you've seen it in this house. Friends, it's in the public interest to see them, to know them by the public. So if you close it this way, we'll publish these from here, from this stand -- the people are listening to us -- right now. Don't, don't, I'll leave you to your conscience again. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0070par0318	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 43 of the proposed law shall be changed in the following manner. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends "Article 135 of Article 43 - 5271 of the Penal Code has been changed as follows. "Designation of communication, rest and recording Article 135 - (1) (Change first sentence: 25/5/2005 - 5353/17 md.) In an investigation and prosecution for a crime, if there are strong reasons for suspicion of criminal activity and there is no other evidence available, the court's decision can determine, listen, record, and assess communication through telecommunications of a suspect or a suspect. (2) There is no record of the connection between the suspect or the accused to those who might hesitate to testify. In the event that this is understood after the recording has taken place, the records taken will be destroyed immediately. (3) According to the first clause, the type of crime imposed is specified as the open identity, address, type of communication tool, code, type of measure, and duration of the crime that allows you to identify the connection. A precautionary decision can be made for more than two months; it can be extended for another month, only once. (Clean line: 25/5/2005 - 5353/17 md.) However, if it is deemed necessary to deal with criminal activities within the organisational scope, the court may extend the deadline another month, once again. (4) The location of the (...) mobile phone can be determined based on the court's decision to apprehend the suspect or the defendant. The decision on this issue states that the person's open identity, address, type of communication tool, phone number, code, type of measure, duration, and duration of the measure that allows them to identify the connection. The detection process can only be done for two months; it can only last one more month. (5) This joke has been dismissed. (6) The provisions for listening, recording and evaluation of signal information within this clause can only be applied in connection with the following crimes: a) Under the Turkish Penal Code; 1. Immigration smuggling and human trafficking (matter 79, 80), 2. Intentional murder (matter 81, 82, 83), 3. Torture (matter 94, 95), 4. Sexual assault (except the first joke, item 102), 5. Children's sexual abuse (matter 103), 6. The manufacture and trade of drugs or stimulant substances (matter 188) Seven. Fraud in currency (matter 197), 8. Establishing a criminal organization (except two, four, five, six, seven and eight), Nine. (Ek: 25/5/2005-5353/17 md.) Prostitution (matter 227, joke 3), 10. Conspiracy to the tender (matter 235), 11. Bribery (matter 252) 12. Acquitting the assets caused by crime (matter 282) 13. Weapons supply for armed organisations (matter 315), 14. Crimes Against State Secrets (matter 328, 329, 330, 333, 333, 334, 335, 336, 337). B) Charges of weapons trafficking (matter 12) in the Law on Firearms and Knifes and Other Tools. c) (Ek: 25/5/2005-5353/17 md.) Embezzlement of Article 22 of the Bank's Law (3) and (4) D) Charges defined by the Anti-Trafficking Act and which require a prison sentence. E) The crimes defined in Articles 68 and 74 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature. (7) No one can listen or record another's communication through telecommunications, except for the basics and procedures set in this article." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0071par0353	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0070par0354	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0072par0355	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0070par0356	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0073par0359	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion in Article 43. I salute you all. First of all, when you bring the General Assembly laws that don't touch soap, we go up here and criticize them, and we say that you have to turn back from these mistakes, and you keep insisting on every ministry bill, but you don't have the right to do that with the Ministry of Justice. Because there are mountain-like problems that are taking place in the Ministry of Justice's field, and these problems are one by one waiting to be solved. To this day and to this day, in every election declaration, in every election study, you have promised this people that we will solve these things. About democratisation, about the expansion of freedoms, about establishing social peace, in fact, the Justice Department, the Justice Commission, the General Assembly shouldn't have a single second to lose, but unfortunately, here, as I said, you continue to bring in laws that don't touch the general agenda of society. Look, today, under the responsibility of the Justice Department, still sick people, sick prisoners are being punished with almost death, almost as if the execution of the death penalty is being carried out step by step by this government, despite all our warnings. There's such a thing as shame, there's either an artery, a conscience, or an honest position to defend the unconscionable from here. You don't have any. You're saying we will. You're saying we're going to solve it. He says, "We're going to solve it." He says, "We've talked to the Minister of Justice many times. We're going to talk to the group. They say, "We're going to solve it." They still say, "When will people lose my life in prison?" They say, "When will I lose my life in prison?" The cancer patient, the patient with the tube in his stomach, the paralyzed patient, who can't perform any function except eat, continues to wait for death in the prisons of your government with the practices of your time. Is that a thing? You brought in countless laws regarding the Justice Department when you should have solved this problem. There's still a shame about the sick prisoners. Bad practices in prisons, naked searches in prisons, until the ban on publication, the issues of exiles, the victims of families. If this Justice Department isn't going to solve this, if this Congress isn't going to solve this, if it's not going to question it, then the honesty, sincerity of any law you've brought here, is out of the question. Look, we're warning the ruling party here; you're going to clean the road for democratization, you're going to lift the Anti-Terror Law on democratisation, you're going to remove the barriers to freedom of press, freedom of thought, freedom of expression, freedom of organization; why isn't it on your agenda? Why don't you bring in the proposals for the law to democratize this country? Why don't you go out and tell that to the public? When we went to the public to ask for votes, did you not promise to clean the road, to make the new constitution? Now, you are in a position to defend the law of coup law, the Constitution of coup, the law of junta, the Constitution. The simplest example is the election dam. There are countless MPs sitting here who don't deserve 10 percent of the election dam. The MPs who had to go to other political parties were elected by this election dam, but we still didn't bring the election dam, the junta people brought it. You continue to defend it. You need to clear the way for democratic politics, but on the contrary, you continue to defend the dams blocking democratic politics. With that understanding, there will be no democracy, no freedom, no justice in this country. In particular, I would like to invite the government to immediately issue the necessary legal arrangements regarding the problems of sick prisoners and prisons. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0074par0367	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current Law Proposal number 655 is 43. In accordance with Article 5271, we propose and propose that the seventh joke (a) of Article 135 of the amendment law (a) be replaced in the following way. "15. If the Constitutional order and the functioning of this system of things were to be carried out by the Penal Code with algebra and violence in Articles 309, 311, 311, 313, 314, 315 and 316 Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0075par0375	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0074par0376	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0076par0377	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0074par0378	Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a statement on the motion, Müğla MP. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0077par0381	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the motion we submitted in Article 43 of the Law Bill 655. I hereby salute your high council. With this clause, the so-called limit of wiretaps is drawn first. I call it the so-called limit because the limit here is related to forensic listening. However, there is no limit to listening or listening to intelligence, either according to the MIT Law or other prevention legislation. So here's the last thing we're going to say about these wiretaps, you can't just listen and record everyone if you want to. He recordeth all that ye do, and lo! ye will see what ye do. So get rid of this listening business. Again, you extend the framework of crimes against the unity of the state, the integrity of our country, the constitutional order and the functioning of this order, and increase the punishments. The unity of the state must be separated from crimes committed against integrity and constitutional order, including algebra and violence and non-algebraics. This has to be fixed here while there's still time. Where we come from, there's no meaning or significance to the laws discussed here, my friends. Why is it that the laws we're talking about here don't matter? Because the government knows neither the law nor the Constitution nor a court order. If the court makes a decision that the government doesn't want, all legal theories and logic are ruled out to nullify that decision. As a result, the court order is not in order. That's not enough. Judges, prosecutors are being appointed to make decisions the government doesn't want. The courts are redesigned to the pleasure of power. The officers running the investigation are being assigned. In February on the same issue, the government advocates different arrangements in December, where it meets and meets the law against each other from base to base. You are making changes in the HSYK Law and in many fundamental laws, knowing that it is contrary to the Constitution. Why do you care about this practice? Of course, you know exactly which law is contrary to the Constitution. But as everyone knows, the Supreme Court doesn't go backwards. You're implementing practices that have eliminated multiple acquisitors' rights from the release of the law to the release of the Constitutional Court's ruling. Dear lawmakers are the foundation of justice. This property is not what you store in the safes or shoeboxes of some of your relatives in their bedrooms. This property is the state, the Republic of Turkey, which you're trying to play with its foundations. Remember, if you destroy the foundations of the state, if the state is destroyed, you will be destroyed with the government, but history will not bring you good. If you want to be remembered for good, make fair and lasting laws that will ensure the survival of our state, our nation. There's no law against protecting someone. Behold, one day a child is brought to him, and he is complained of eating much honey. He says: "Bring this to me in forty days. " After forty days, Imam Azam talks to the child, and the child gets rid of this habit of eating too much honey. They say, "Why didn't you solve the matter when you arrived that day, and then you made us come back here after forty days?" He says: "Yahu, then I was eating honey." I didn't give advice that day because I didn't think my advice on the child would be effective because of the work I did. Forty days after I gave up, I counseled him. Now, friends, you will obey the law first, not to play with the law. There's no end to playing with these laws, and don't play with every law you make, it'll hurt you, it'll hurt our country, it'll hurt our nation. For the unity of our country, for the integrity of our country, let us all make laws together with common sense. With these temporary measures, we can't get results. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0078par0388	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There are three motions on Article 44; I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 44 of Law 655 be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader "Article 140 of Article 44-5271 of the Penal Code has been changed as follows. MADDE 140- (1) in the event that there is strong doubt that the following crimes have been committed and there is no other evidence, the suspect or the defendant can be monitored through public activities and business technical tools, audio or video recordings. The type of crime carried out in the technical follow-up decision is specified as the open identity, address, type of technical vehicle, code, type of measure, scope and duration of the measure. a) Under the Turkish Penal Code; 1. Immigration smuggling and human trafficking (Made 79, 80), 2. Intentional murder (Made 81, 82, 83), 3. The manufacture and trade of drugs or stimulant drugs (Made 188) 4. Fraud in Money (Made 197), 5. Establishing a criminal organization (except two, four, five, six, seven and eight), 6. (Ek sub bend: 25/05/2005-5353 S. K/19. Mad) *1, Prostitution (Made 227, joke 3), Seven. Do not corrupt the tender. 8. Bribery (Made 252) Nine. Acquitting the assets of crime (Made 282) 10. Weapons for armed organization (Made 315) 11. Crimes Against State Secrets (Made 328, 329, 330, 333, 333, 334, 335, 336, 337), Crimes. B) Charges of gun trafficking (Made 12) which is defined by the Law on Firearms and Knifes and Other Tools. C) Crimes defined by the Anti-Trafficking Act and which require jail time. D) The crimes defined in Articles 68 and 74 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature. (2) The court decides to monitor with technical tools. [[3) With technical tools, the decision to monitor can be made for a maximum of three weeks. This period can be extended for one more week, if necessary.]] [[Additional sentence: 25/05/2005-5353 S.K/19.mad]] (4) Evidence obtained cannot be used except for investigation and prosecution of the above crimes; it will be immediately destroyed in the custody of the Public Prosecutor's Office if it is not necessary to prosecute. (4) These provisions cannot be applied in the person's dwelling. " Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 44th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. In accordance with Article 5271, we propose and propose that the first joke of Article 140 (a) be changed in the following way. "12. If the Constitutional order and the functioning of this system of things were to be carried out by the Penal Code with algebra and violence in Articles 309, 311, 311, 313, 314, 315 and 316 Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk ♪ Orhan Decent From the Heart ♪ ♪ The Flood Köse ♪ Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0079par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0078par0441	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0080par0442	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0078par0443	It's the Flood Köse, Corrum MP who wants a word on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0081par0446	Mr. President, we're dealing with another AKP classic. We're going to change a law that we changed six months ago, and today we're going to make it like it was six months ago. What's the motive? A December 17th-25th operation passed. It created a phobia in you. What did you do immediately then? You've removed reasonable doubt, brought strong doubt based on concrete evidence. Why? To block the investigations. I'm afraid you've succeeded in that, too. Today the business is over with you, you're changing the law again, and you're making reasonable doubt sufficient. Of course, we'll see how you sell it in June. Now, we want this clause removed completely, but at the very least, even if you don't take it all out -- because the Commission and the government say -- if we remove the crime of creating an organization to commit this crime from the catalog, then tomorrow, we're not giving a bad-willed prosecutor any leverage. I want you to consider it. Of course, Turkey's agenda is changing rapidly. What is on Turkey's agenda today? The 19th Education Order was gathered in Antalya. Of course, it is necessary to ask why he is in Antalya. You know, there's also a hall in the Ministry of National Education called the Assembly Hall. We're wondering who you want to dazzle in five-star hotels for millions of dollars while you're standing in this room, both society and citizens are wondering. Again, in recent years, before each educational event was convened, a pro-governmentist, pro-employee union, a yellow union such as any government pro-employee, has made a statement from the EDUCY-BIN Union. So they arranged between them an education and a moral obligation. That means they're missing something.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0082par0450	What morality?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0081par0451	What morality? You're telling the truth. Of course, the Minister of National Education isn't here, but I'd like to ask: is there no teacher in this National Education who would be a school principal or vice principal other than the teachers of religious culture and ethics or members of the EDUTIM-BIR-SEN union? Of course, you have to question that, too. The union, which is the government's wingman, said something, said: "Let the karma education be put to rest." We have a request. It's not on the agenda, but we're going to bring it up. They've decided. What did they say when they wanted to end co-ed training? They said that the lack of continuity would diminish... that success would increase, and violence would decrease in school. Do you have any scientific data? No. Is there any scientific research? No. Since we don't live apart from each other in life, what logic do you use to explain spending time apart in schools? I'm asking my AKP friends, government officials. If we're going to tear men and women away from each other in school, then let's not put them on the same subway, let's not put them on the same subway, let's not put them on the bus, let's not get them on the plane, let's not get them on the plane, let's get them all sitting in Congress. So what are your intentions? The intention is to keep women in the house together, create a society without women. My dear friends, you have divided this society too much. You divided this society into Kurd-Turk, you divided it into Alevi-Sunni, you divided it as headdressless; at least don't be a sex-based separatist, or at least don't do that. Now, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk 1. Education is gathering the Maarif Congress. It's 1921, it's not a republic yet. And he's coming to open the convention, and he's in the conference room, and he's looking at the convention where the female teachers and the male teachers sit apart. He calls the president of the Teachers' Association, and says, "What did you do? What did you do with an angry voice? What did we do? ▪ Why do you call the women teachers to sit apart from the men? Do you have no confidence in yourself, or do you have no confidence in the chastity of women? Now I ask my AKP members: Do we not have confidence in ourselves, or do we not trust our female friends, but we will separate our six-year-olds, seven-year-olds, 8-year-olds, 10-year-olds, 15-year-old girls from men? So is there any chance that by neglecting half of a society, by shutting him out of the community, by locking women in their homes, we'll be able to move forward where we can take this country? I warn you, these decisions from the Ministry of Education will affect our next four years, our next 40 years. Follow this matter with precision. I want to warn the AKP's women MPs specifically. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0083par0460	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 44 of Law 655 be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends "Article 140 of Article 44-5271 of the Penal Code has been changed as follows. MADDE 140- (1) in the event that there is strong doubt that the following crimes have been committed and there is no other evidence, the suspect or the defendant can be monitored through public activities and business technical tools, audio or video recordings. The type of crime carried out in the technical follow-up decision is specified as the open identity, address, type of technical vehicle, code, type of measure, scope and duration of the measure. a) Under the Turkish Penal Code; 1. Immigration smuggling and human trafficking (Made 79, 80), 2. Intentional murder (Made 81, 82, 83), 3. The manufacture and trade of drugs or stimulant drugs (Made 188) 4. Fraud in Money (Made 197), 5. Establishing a criminal organization (except two, four, five, six, seven and eight), 6. (Ek subbent: 25/05/2005-5353 S. K/19. Mad) *1 * Prostitution (Made 227, joke 3), Seven. Do not corrupt the tender. 8. Bribery (Made 252) Nine. Acquitting the assets of crime (Made 282) 10. Weapons for armed organization (Made 315) 11. Crimes Against State Secrets (Made 328, 329, 330, 333, 333, 334, 335, 336, 337), Crimes. B) Charges of gun trafficking (Made 12) which is defined by the Law on Firearms and Knifes and Other Tools. C) Crimes defined by the Anti-Trafficking Act and which require jail time. D) The crimes defined in Articles 68 and 74 of the Law on Protection of Culture and Nature. (2) The court decides to monitor with technical tools. [[3) With technical tools, the decision to monitor can be made for a maximum of three weeks. This period can be extended for one more week, if necessary.]] [[Additional sentence: 25/05/2005-5353 S.K/19.mad]] (4) Evidence obtained cannot be used except for investigation and prosecution of the above crimes; it will be immediately destroyed in the custody of the Public Prosecutor's Office if it is not necessary to prosecute. (4) These provisions cannot be applied in the person's dwelling. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0084par0491	The commission is not participating, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0083par0492	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0085par0493	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0083par0494	Erol Dora Mardin MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0086par0496	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 44 of the People's Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Laws and Codes of Justices and Prosecutors Number 655. I salute the General Assembly. Crimes against constitutional order and the functioning of this order are added, including charges against constitutional and constitutional order, Article 309 and 316 of the TCK. Thus, the implementation of confiscation measures is open, with almost all opposition, democratic responses brought into crime against constitutional order with a highly vague framework law clause. Precious lawmakers are a step towards restricting and weakening human rights and freedoms in Turkey; in this regard it is unacceptable. In the case of the TCK Article 309, it is intended to provide a legitimate basis for operational initiatives that could produce devastating economic consequences on the opposition, with investigations launched against the State of Turkey, and investigations carried out in Article 312 of the Turkish Penal Code. Precious lawmakers can be said to be applied to almost all those who express their dissatisfaction to the current administration when the seizure measure is carried out along with the crime described as "the person involved in the crime of violating the unity of the state and the integrity of the state, which is primarily part of the TCK Article 302. With this arrangement, citizens are asked to eliminate even the right to express their basic rights and demands of freedom. So that those who raise their voice on basic rights can easily be prosecuted for crimes against the functioning of the constitutional order. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are one of the most fundamental and binding legal texts that protects property rights, as well as Article 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is part of the European Convention on Human Rights. As you can see from the article text, the right to property protected by contract is not an absolute, unrestrictable right; it can be limited under the conditions envisioned in the contract. However, in the contract, the first condition of this constraint is the need to make a mat for the "public benefit" goal, which is essential to the basis of the limitation. Since the public benefit is a broad concept, the state and the courts as legislators have the right to be appointed here. In any case, however, the state or the court must use that right of appreciation in a way that does not harm the essence of that right. If the restrictions imposed on property rights, on the idea of public interest, are harmful to the essence of rights, it depends, however, on the meticulous preparation of the relevant laws. However, a crime described as "criminals against the functioning of constitutional order" is not a clear statement. This statement would open the door to any arbitrary application in order for the passing of opponents in the face of power. In this direction, Turkey's immediate fear of free and political citizens and giving up a rigid and distorted state understanding of arbitrary practices, saying that it is our primary duty to welcome the General Assembly back to a democratic republic, where universal democratic principles are considered primary references.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0087par0506	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 44th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose and propose that Article 5271 of the Law replaced with Article 140 (a) change the first joke (a) subdivision (12) in the following way. "12. The Constitutional order and the functioning of this order are 309, 311, 312, 313, 314, 315 and 316 of the penal code. In the case of Algebra and violent acts of crime written in the articles Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0088par0514	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0087par0515	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0089par0516	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0087par0517	It's Reşat Right, Slap Congressman who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0090par0520	Thank you, Mr. President. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party on Article 44 of the proposed law proposal. I salute the High Council. Our motion has been prepared and given in order to eliminate doubts that could have unfair consequences in the application. In Article 44 of the Law proposal, we take protection measures for any suspicion of crime against state order and reflex. The search warrants, such as seizure, will be carried out. However, it can initially be considered a reasonable, significant change in the definition of the proposal of the law, but given that law has been implemented in particulate and fundamental human rights lately, since the limits of the seizure have not been drawn, power can have devastating, economic and political consequences on its opponents. As a result, basic rights and freedoms will take a hit and create a major pressure element. Recently, when we look at our eastern and southeast regions in our country, we see clearly and quietly how all the institutions of the state are being destroyed. The terrorist organisation has done all kinds of work, which is fully dominated by the region. Roadblocks, identity checks, they took you to collect taxes, build a court, and finally, by the terrorist organization, to appoint a governor. However, this is a clear indication of where our country has come to in AKP power. The AKP has opened the way for separatism and strengthened the terrorist organization's hand. The state is on its way to and from bankruptcy with all its institutions and institutions. After all, our country will suffer a lot and a lot from severe traumas in those areas in the future. The bill for the position of Kandil and İmralah will be very heavy. After all, at the end of the day, it's not brotherhood, it's hostility, people are looking at each other as rivals. However, in the face of all this, the mechanism of justice remains silent. The mechanism of justice, unfortunately, does not function. And we're all seeing how the new laws that come in day after day are being manipulated by the mechanism of justice. The draft laws are immediately legalized in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, without full scrutiny, without evaluation. Every law that's been passed is put in secret compartments to protect and protect someone. The public is also trying to escape attention. 17-25 December corruption operations are tried to be forgotten. Public conscience is troubled. All studies on this subject are closely monitored. In particular, it is clear to everyone where the commission work has come from and that some things are hidden from the public. To close all these events, legislation on changing agendas is also tried to be presented to the public. But it has now become clear that the division scenarios over our country are one and the same. People are trying to follow what's going on in grief with their hearts burning. Besides, because of the heavy depression of the economy, the public has no buying power, the tradesman, the civil servant, the farmer, the pensioner, but no one cares. Our country's economic situation is getting worse. For years, the tradesmen have wanted the offer of super and hypermarkets to be met in parliament and legalized, and they say it should be legalized, but the AKP doesn't want this offer to come up. As a result, people are forced to close their livelihoods. In every neighborhood in Asia Minor, there's almost a supermarket branch in the street. Unfortunately, the opening of one of these leads to the closing of the 50-60 tradesman's shop. The tradesman is also despondent, psychotically depressed, and joins the unemployed army. Meanwhile, Turkey's KAMUSEN Research Centre announced the results of the minimum income index from October 2014. According to the price of October 2014, a single person working at the Turkish Statistical Agency has an estimated poverty limit of $2,029 lira, while a family of four has a living of around $4,100. So the average cost of food in a family of four is $1.560. Unfortunately, when we put them on top of each other, we see together what a difficult livelihood people are in, especially people who are paid, the social groups that are heading towards the poverty line. That's where all this needs to be brought up. The public, especially the farmer, thinks all kinds of problems need to be solved, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0091par0530	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 45th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 45th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Mustafa Kalaycı Yusuf Halaçoğlu Alim Ik Kemalettin Yilmaz Emin Çınar The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk From the heart to the heart, Orhan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Ali İhsan Kokturk Jesus Gök Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0092par0553	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0091par0554	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0093par0555	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0091par0556	Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0094par0559	Mr. President, dear friends, we would like this clause removed from the bill for a very clear reason. Here, as stated in the proposal of the law, the authority for the defence to examine or sample the contents of the case may jeopardize the purpose of the investigation, has been chosen by law to prevent lawyers from accessing the file content of the defenders, which we call a wide and fundamentally political crime. In any case, it is clear that the European Convention on Human Rights will violate the provisions of a fair trial. The principle of equality of weapons, which is essentially one of the main points of fair trial, eliminates equality between the prosecution, the judge, and the defendant. In this regard, the defendant and his defense, the charges against them in the same file, the possible evidence, witnesses, various statements, many documents and information that could be entered into the case, are left completely ignorant, but one of the parties, the prosecutor's office, is made to judge, one of the parties is strong, authoritarian, and one of the parties in this legal dispute. The odds of a fair outcome from such a trial are almost zero. It's also ridiculous that this is bound by a procedure, such as the endangerment of a trial, and that there is a judgment. Whether the trial will be compromised or not, if it depends on the removal of all information and documents related to the accused, then in fact, there is no trial, a preconceived verdict is prepared to be read to the defendant's face, but the defendant's objections are being blocked from the very beginning. I'm very curious to know what age we live in, and I'd like to ask. Is this in accordance with the legal understanding that the accused in the Middle Ages was forced to prove his innocence -- which it seems -- or is it in line with the principle of enemy criminal law, which is the principle of fascist judicial procedures? Since it is more modern, it is more suitable for the second because it is closer to our age. Is there a judicial principle that those who are actually tried for crimes against the state, that the defendants will never benefit from the equality of this trial, that they will not be essentially reformed, that they will be placed at the bottom of the wall like enemies, that if they are not aligned at the bottom of the wall, then they will be immediately shut down without question? After all these years, after 90 years of discussing all the flaws of the republic, after coming to this day, will you place here a judgment that is not even in the 1920s? On the one hand, you're going to talk about judicial executions, interrogations, intimidation, criticism, and then you're going to come here and you're going to ask us to essentially sign under a rule of genocide, which is a lot. The majority of the Justice and Development Party government in parliament must seek the way of the director based on the consent of the people of his hometown. Otherwise, many dictators, many tyrants, many tyrants, many pharaohs have tried what they were trying to do before, but history, Pharaohs, dictators, tyrants write their story as graveyards. Therefore, we propose that we return this way at once. We'd like you to consider that.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0095par0563	Thank you. Faruk Bal wants a word on the same proposal. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0096par0567	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the High Council again. The clause that we're interviewing limits the ability of lawyers to access evidence in cases that have been ruled confidential in the investigations. My dear friends, a change was made in February 2014. The change in February 2014 is now being returned. Why was there a need for a change in February 2014? Because the evidence that was involved in the December 17th-25 corruption operation, the images that had been obtained and information about the defendants, the ministers of the Justice and Development Party had no access to the investigation, the MPs, the ministers of their children, because there was secrecy, and the lawyers couldn't access it. Then it should have been eliminated. As a matter of fact, in February 2014, the AKP was able to dispose of such a dispossession in parliament, and after reaching these evidence, there was an arrangement that allowed those evidence to be discredited, that allowed the perpetrators to be better defended. As a result, in parallel with this, police investigating officers were torn apart, files were removed from prosecutors' hands, judges were destroyed; not enough, HSYK was changed; the Supreme Court has been changed as an appeals court, the Court has been changed, the Court has been set up to protect the perpetrators from the legal consequences of the 17-25 December corruption case, and according to your own understanding, you've been able to avoid it. As a matter of fact, the republic's prosecutors decided not to follow either the December 17 operation or the 25th operation. Now, you're doing an operation against the members of the judiciary who have done these investigations, which have resulted in a decision of non-obsession, and you think they're describing them with adjectives such as Hashishhi,..... and you say it's called a statistical struggle. Here, in this struggle, you're taking away the rights of lawyers to access the files, access the evidence, and know who the perpetrators are to prevent them from accessing the evidence you've acquired. My dear friends, human rights are the most important of all human values that have been revealed throughout human history. The most blessed and most holy among these human rights is the right to self-defense. Of course, this will be done by lawyers or by other definitions, equipped with some technical knowledge. Now, put your hand on your conscience, and according to one example, what is the place of this example in the order in which you will break, break, break, and break in some legal struggles within the scope of the future struggle? My dear friends, five years ago, there was a claim that there was an assassination against Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. As a result of this claim, there was an operation against the Turkish Armed Forces, a number of people entered the heart of the army and obtained information and evidence there. This case has been classified for five years. In five years, the perpetrators of this case have been unable to access the evidence and other documents, but this file has not been completed in five years. Now, whoever commits such a crime must pay for it. In addition to his thinking, let no crime go unpunished. In addition to the thought of these crimes, let it be observed to the full extent of the right of defense, which of course is human rights. Where does he put the idea? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It seems to me that you are thinking of using justice as a weapon, not a weapon, to deal with your opponents, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0097par0576	Thank you. Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the same proposal. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0098par0580	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our motion to remove Section 655 from the proposal text of Article 45 of the Law Proposal. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, Turkey has moved to advanced democracy. Many words are said, "Freedom, law," but all of the arrangements point to the opposite. Look, freedom of the press has been destroyed. Every day, one or two journalists are put in front of the doors. Now it's time for fellow journalists to be put out of business and put in front of the door. My dear friends, forward democracy has shot down the Capitol television, and there's two or three hours of Parliament television a day to make sure the talks here don't go away, and then there's nothing after that. We lost him, too, so we lost another part of democracy there. You have brought a gag order against the work of the Turkish Grand National Assembly commissions, which is an odd phenomenon. Why would confident people want to continue the bans and hide behind them? I don't have any dirty work. I'm ready to answer any questions on the air. Is it so hard to say? Do you have the guts to say that? You have no heart, because there is a great corruption. As a matter of fact, the most important evidence of this corruption is that all of them are real, but you're afraid, you're covering it up, you're always going to hide things from the public. Now you're bringing new changes to the legal system. You bring in bag bags of judicial packages, but there's no freedom coming out of these packages, there's no democracy, there's no law, there's plenty of bans.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0099par0584	For God's sake!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0098par0585	Now it's time for the lawyers to ban. You're banning lawyers to review the case.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0099par0586	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0098par0587	I'm afraid he's a lawyer who recommends that, too. In a word, it's rude, it's an insult to lawyers, it's what you bring. Because it's impossible to accept. Everyone needs to know that there's no lawyer, there's no justice. Without the authority of a lawyer, there is no justice.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0099par0589	Open the 157, read the 157. Look at Article 157!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0098par0590	But there's a gradual plan going on here. In the earlier stages, you have again brought changes in the Penal Code. And it turned out that after these changes, the dissolution of the army followed, and after that, the dissolution of the judiciary. What are you liquidating now? I think you're trying to purge democracy, opposition. Look, you've re-established special courts for the AKP. What's all this? Peace criminal courts. Familiar judge, you've assigned prosecutors there. You see, they're doing their job well, and in the investigations, the non-obstructive decisions are coming up one after the other. Now, in phase two, you've made changes to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. Now you're changing the laws of crime and investigation. Step by step, seizure, custody is being facilitated. And you're limiting it to lawyers. It's the preparation of a full-scale massacre operation. When the special court judges decide that they can't examine the case, the lawyer will be bound until the public case is filed. For months, maybe years, those arrests will be valid. I mean, if there's a fake document in the file, that fake document won't be seen by a lawyer, and if it's hidden by a judge's order, people will be arrested for months, years. How is that justice, my dear friends, what do you bring? Look, in this way it will be opened, you will take him into custody, saying "crimes against the security of the state" and "crimes against the constitutional order" and against the functioning of this, and you will place him in prison, and there will be no objection; your lawyer will not know about the false documents or the information in the file, and then you will seize his property. Now, not only do you personally condemn people for political crimes, but you also bring their family out there, their families, starving their children, taking over their property, my dear friends. Do you realize what you've done, what you've done? You'll notice. My dear friends, look, this is justice in Turkey. Have you ever seen one of these days? I've practically been a lawyer in this country for 39 years. Back in the day, when I did it, lawyers were not only in the works, but also in the defense of the defendant, the prosecutor was in charge of those provisions, but that's gone. Now you're taking the lawyer out of the plea, defense and judgment triangle. It won't do you any good. Look, you can't sell this to anyone again. Go back, get back as soon as you can. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0100par0595	Thank you. Now, I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 46, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 46 of the current law proposal in 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Secrets by Darayya Leader Erol Dora Abdullah Levent Tüzel The signatures of the other motion are: Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar D. Ali Torlak The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Kamer Young Jesus Gök Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0101par0620	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0100par0621	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0102par0622	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0100par0623	Levent Tüzzel is an Istanbul MP who wants to speak on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0103par0626	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I also mentioned in my earlier speech that, now, the government is not only interfering with the judiciary with this bill that we're talking about, it's in an attitude that completely disrupts all the basic principles, approaches, regulations, mechanisms that have been established in the judiciary. In particular, it's an approach that eliminates prosecutors in the matter we're now discussing. And in the previous article, an approach that eliminates lawyers -- lawyers who are indispensable to the judiciary -- to the defence and to the defence -- to the right to examine and obtain documents, to get the evidence from the case, if necessary, in the name of the safety of the investigation. It's not acceptable, of course. So the government wants to implement the kind of judgment they want, especially against state security or the Constitution, in fact, in order to change the concept of public order, in order to suppress all public movements, street opposition, democracy and freedom, in order to suppress their demands, in this article they want to play in the judiciary. It's obvious that it's a two-way street. The government has two goals with this proposal, in the name of the provisions of the judiciary. One is to get away from the opponents of the judiciary, to get rid of them, to get rid of them, to reduce their problems, to neutralize them, to intervene in the judiciary. The second dimension, on the other hand, is to be able to silence and neutralize the opposition on the street with judgment. Insisting on corruption, Ranta, environment and natural slaughter, sexist, separatist, violence and oppression against women... to place anyone who has the right to study, the right to work and organization a reasonable suspect, which is a highly arbitrary concept. There's a two-way here, too. During that period of corruption investigations, the so-called parallel judiciary, which was brought in February, in March to clear themselves of the pursuit of parallel investigators, was necessary for them, but those seeking rights in the street, the opponents, they can all be identifiable suspects. That's the kind of bilateral attitude and pleasure. That, of course, is unacceptable. With these judicial regulations, with the security package that will be brought in time, now, in order to protect the state order, these packages, which will be carried out one after another in order to maintain public order, are completely overturned by rights, law, fundamental rights, freedoms, especially the defence mechanism, freedom of rights, as it is here. Now, in particular, we see a government attitude that raises hell over a number of ideas about the constitutional judiciary -- the constitutional judiciary -- which is being discussed today -- particularly the dams. The government clearly wants to handcuff the people's will, to continue the vote theft, but these dams will be destroyed. But when I was here, especially when the Minister of Justice was here, the investigation of Berkin Elvan, the one that was shot in the head with a gas flare in the Gezi incident, and then in a coma for about three hundred days, then in the case of the 14-year-old boy who lost his life, why aren't the riot squads still brought to trial? Why is this investigation still delayed? In terms of trust in justice, in terms of justice, we're looking for answers. I talked to his parents the other day. They're still complaining that there's an account of a negligence in this matter... still hiding evidence here... with a sense of protection and punishment for a civil servant. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish that the Minister would make an effort to bring to justice those responsible for the death of that little Berkin Else. Thank you.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0104par0633	Thank you. Durmiş Ali Torlak, İstanbul MP who wants to make a statement on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0105par0637	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion on Article 46 of the proposed law. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, it is in the directive of prosecutors who were accepted at the 8th UN Criminals' Correctional Conference in Cuba in 1990 that prosecutors conduct their duties by avoiding all discrimination, protecting public benefit, acting objectively, taking into account the case of the suspect and the victim as they should, and paying no attention to the situation of the suspect, regardless of whether or not it is for the benefit or harm. However, they have been given all necessary procedures and similar recommendations to ensure that they keep the information they have hidden, the crimes committed by public officials, especially in the investigation of crimes such as bribery, abuse of authority, and that those responsible should be brought to justice. Because prosecutors take great responsibility for justice. Therefore, it is very important for prosecutors to respect and act in accordance with the principles set out in the directive regarding the fulfillment of these responsibilities. In this way, a just and just punishment will be made to contribute to justice and to the effective protection of citizens against crime. On the other hand, it is recommended that victims of crime should receive international and national justice and be treated fairly, compensated, and taken measures for compensation and assistance. The 7th decision of the United Nations Congress on Anti-Crime and Correction of Criminals highlights the electing of prosecutors, their contribution to the corrective function of the criminal justice system, and their way of boosting cooperation with police, their discretionary powers, and their role in criminal prosecution. So, the clause that we're talking about is that the amendment to the Turkish legal system is not allowed to attend hearings in the criminal courts, while the importance of prosecutors for the establishment of justice in international law conventions is highlighted. Dear lawmakers, prosecutors' duties are strictly separated from judicial functions. Prosecutors take an active role in the prosecution, in the opening of the prosecution and in investigating the criminals, in the custody of the legality of these investigations, in the custody of the execution of court decisions, and in carrying out other tasks given to them as representatives of public benefit. In addition, they carry out their duties in accordance with the law, with justice, with respect and protection of human dignity, and contribute to a fair trial and the proper functioning of the justice system. All I'm saying is that international developed countries are the principles that exist in the legal system. But when we look at our country's legal system, especially after the 17th, 25 December corruption operation, it has led to a growing reduction in the trust in the judiciary in the justice system by the Justice and Development Party government for political and purpose, in seeking to control the judiciary and to use justice as an ideological tool in order to make the decisions they want. Judicial decisions have been questioned by the personalities and identities of prosecutors, as they did in the December 17th, 25th operations. Therefore, the government must provide our nation with regulations to ensure its independence to prosecutors and judges, which will distribute justice within the norms of the law, because the implementation of the prosecution from criminal courts by 2020 has made the system a puzzle board. At the time of AKP power, the prosecution had previously been removed from the criminal courts. Constant application change undermines the stability and confidence of the judicial system. As a result, it is possible that the prosecution protects the rights of the state and the individual, especially the victim, only if it is in the courtroom. An application like this, given the need for a prosecutor's office, would lead to what happened in the criminal courts, which have already expanded its scope. For these reasons, I hereby declare that we do not participate in the amendment, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0106par0648	Thank you. Kamer Young-Tunceli MP who wants to speak on the same motions. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0107par0652	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding the removal of the law proposal from the proposal text of Article 46. I salute you all. Now, dear friends, you know the judge and the prosecutor are a fundamental institution that balances justice. If you remove the prosecutor from the scene during a trial act, he is like the one walking on one foot. Now, here, of course, five years in original criminal courts, the prosecutor says he's not going to be in court, he's not going to debate, he's not going to participate. They're not actually trying to get the prosecutor out because they're against the republic, they're trying to get the D.A. out. The day after tomorrow, why do we need these law-educated judges, Ahmet Chimama and Bekir Bozdağ? Let's bring in the Qadi system, and let's direct the judiciary accordingly in Turkey. Dear lawmakers, the purpose of these laws, the AKP, says that since they were caught red-handed on December 17th and December 25th, let's destroy the judge, bring a judicial system of our own in the middle, and try to get rid of the corruption, thefts, bribes. Friends, look, there's a rule in the world that gives the public the right to resist those who try to eliminate their thefts and corruption through despotism, as a general rule, and you will see the right to resist. Guys, what does that mean? Now, if your forehead is open, come out, and the judges will judge you. After that, if you are truly innocent, you will be found out. Look, Recep Erdogan is coming out, saying that the State Court, who called off the Galataport tender, is betraying him. They're probably stuck between the conscience and the wallet. So, he says: "This Court has bribed these decisions." That's what that means.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0108par0658	He didn't say that. Don't make that up.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0107par0659	Guys, in this Galataport thing, this cancellation, if that's what the State has decided, this decision has been made in the interest of the public. So if he's the one who's going to bribe the State, then he's got to have a government. Now that you're on the government side, is there anything? Or, did the OFER, or did the Jew come to the State and decide against himself? No, guys, there are so many irrationalities. What's the big deal? Look, the fugitive palace costs $5 billion to escape the public view of the illegal palace. The whole agenda is...
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0108par0661	Where did 5 billion come from?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0107par0662	Guys, I know there's 5 billion because they gave it to me under the cost plus profit law. Go look at them, when you look at their accounts, they say that the cost plus the profit is three times the cost, five times the amount. Now, the President of the Constitutional Court, out of the blue, said: "We will remove the dam procedure in elections." He says, "We will ignore this decision, ignore the Constitutional Court. We will remove this Constitutional Court." On September 12th, this Constitutional Court made a change in the Constitutional Court, which replaced the Constitutional Court and replaced the Constitutional Court with the text presented to the people. If you're a teacher, if you're a professor of the Constitution, you're...
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0109par0664	Behave, behave, shameless man, behave!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0107par0665	You still don't get it, you don't get it, you still don't get it.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0109par0666	Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0107par0667	That's not a word to say. Your brain's not working. I wonder what kind of brain your brain is. Is that okay?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0109par0668	You're not a man!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0110par0669	Mr. President, what are these expressions?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0111par0670	What law school did you finish? Shame on you!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0112par0671	Now, he says, "Sir, we're going to remove the Constitutional Court." Would that happen, friends?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0113par0672	You're not a judge, you're not a lawyer, who the hell are you?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0112par0673	How are you the President of the Constitutional Commission? Don't come back here. I don't want to see you here again. That's not gonna happen! I'm going to decide that I don't like the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0114par0674	How did you control it?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0113par0675	You wouldn't know anything about that.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0114par0676	Are you a lawyer?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0115par0677	The Constitutional Court agrees with you behind the scenes. So the AKP, stuck in illegal palaces, airplanes, corruption, is trying to create an artificial agenda. They found toys, they're trying to fool people. My dear friends, we don't buy their games. Behold! ye plot a plot in this land, that no matter how much ye plot, ye shall not be able to escape from it: for the end of it is a disaster.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0116par0678	Get out of here! Go!
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0115par0679	You bring the country into a brother's quarrel, you tear up the country, you destroy the institutions of the state, you destroy the education, and then, like Burhan Lamb, the people you bring up in front of the nation speak so ignorantly that we are ashamed, how they teach. That's not gonna happen. I can't believe it.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0116par0681	You answer for the goods in Dikmen.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0117par0682	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 47th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 47th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose that the following sentence be added to the clause. Its number is identified according to this. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Dilek Akagün Yilmaz Jesus Gök Ali Riza Özturk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0118par0701	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0117par0702	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0119par0703	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0120par0704	Motive.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0117par0705	I'm reading the reason: Since we feel that the current clause does not contribute positively to the judicial activity, we propose that the clause be removed from the proposal of the law. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 47th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We propose that the following sentence be added to the clause. Its number is identified according to this. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0121par0715	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0117par0716	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0122par0717	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0117par0718	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0123par0720	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we've come to your tail. There's an expression, and we've come to the final articles of this law. On the basis of our motion on this clause, I'd like to share the situation with you one more time. Dear friends, let's be clear, let's be clear. Obviously, all of these regulations and the wasteful regulations in this law are the re-designation of the judiciary, including the 17th and 25 December corruption operation. The evidence in operation 17, 25 December is that some images of millions of dollars are audio recordings of children talking to ministers, brokers, etc. Now, these were allegations that this claim would have to be defended within the legal order, and it would have to be judged. Were you framed, or were you framed? It's a defense, and whoever's behind it, whoever's conspiring, you've got to go all the way through his legal system. So if someone assembles their voices to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, building images into dublages, and blackmailing them based on it, it's a very heavy and grave situation, and it needs to be investigated. So far you've given no evidence against you that there's been editing, dublaj and blackmail in a corruption operation against some of the government's ministers. Could such false evidence be found against the prime minister and ministers of the entire Republic of Turkey, and not be identified by organs, units, institutions, organizations, and organizations within the Republic of Turkey? Come on, they couldn't. Can't it be detected abroad? So you didn't meet the need for the defense in the form of editing, dublaj and blackmail, but instead you dived into the judiciary. What did you do: on the first day, you changed the Constitutional Amendment, with a change of regulations -- my dear friends, please consider this. You've allowed the executive body to intervene within the judiciary with a change of regulations. Then you took the file from the judge, the prosecutor, the police, and, of course, you violated the rule of judgeship and gave it to those who were on the side. Not enough, after the DGMs, after the special authorities' courts, you committed a new AKP court, you called it the Åsulh Penal Judgeship. They were long-lived men. Such as the long-lived man. You put his political opinion forward, appointed the people who were propaganda for the AKP as judges, and they decided not to follow the 17-25 December corruption operation that you were forced to defend. But it's not enough. It's not enough because it's not going to end there. This time, you've entered into the penal code, the penal code, the Supreme Court Act, the State Code, the HSYK Law, whatever you have, and you're shaping it all accordingly. I mean, it's a waste of time. Now, where in the world are we to add 129 more to the 387 Supreme Court members? Is there a Supreme Court with 517 members, brother? The cantar's ball has escaped. I mean, this scale doesn't attract this class. Let's find a solution to this problem by respecting the need for democratic society of parliamentary democracy, in the right way, before it leaves the rule of rule of rule of law; before it leaves the principles of independence, neutrality, and judicial security. But I'd like to share with you the last photograph that we have now: our law order, judgment, judges, courts, the Supreme Court, and when you consider what I've just said, everything is shattered, everything is broken, everything is broken. Not just you, not just us, but the state of the Republic of Turkey and all the members of the Turkish nation will remain under it, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0124par0727	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit04spe0125par0728	Thank you. I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All in favor... Those who don't agree... There's no decision enough, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 21st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision on Article 47 of the Law Proposal No. 655, to vote on the motion of Konya MP Faruk Bal and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who don't accept... there's enough to decide, it's not accepted. We'll continue negotiations with the proposal. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 48: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 48th Amendment proposal of the current 655 rows. The Act No. 6087 added by Article 6 is temporary. We propose and propose that the word "by decision" be replaced in the first joke of the article. Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 48. We propose and propose that the "60 days" clause in the article be changed into "90 days." Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of "unacceptables of employment" in section 2 of the 48th section of the proposed law proposal in 655 rows be changed into "winners of the case they're suing from non-employees." Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Erol Dora Secret by Dareyya Leader Ertuğrul Furççı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0126par0028	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0029	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0127par0030	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0031	I'm having it read. With the change being made, the rights to those who had not been admitted to the profession unjustly were intended to be avoided on the other hand. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 48. We propose and propose that the "60 days" clause in the article be changed into "90 days." Omar Suha Aldan (Mugla) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0128par0040	We don't care, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0041	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0129par0042	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0043	I'm having it read. A longer application period has been deemed necessary for judges and prosecutors to make healthy decisions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 48th Amendment proposal of the current 655 rows. The Act No. 6087 added by Article 6 is temporary. We propose and propose that the word "by decision" be replaced in the first joke of the article. Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0130par0052	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0053	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0131par0054	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0125par0055	Faruk Bal asking for a word on the motion is the MP of Konya. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0132par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we have done our best as the National Movement Party to make this law-making technique in line with law-making, law language and democratic rights, and we have tried to correct it with motions, to make it appropriate. If this motion had been properly assessed, the President of the Justice Commission, whom I have entrusted with his knowledge of grammar, should have joined, Mr. Justice Minister should have, but unfortunately you do not accept a motion from the opposition party within the party's coercion. So it's a matter of fact. The truth of this matter is why this law came here. The reason this proposal came here is because of the wisdom, as I've just expressed, how can we get rid of the evidence obtained within the framework of operations on December 17, 25th, how can we get out of this by designing judicial organs and molding them with political hormones? It's all about this place. In doing so, there was no law, no right, no justice, no right. The conclusion is that perhaps with the implementation of these laws, you can avoid these operations by manipulating the law that you have made in both the Supreme Court's Law and the Criminal Law and the Penal Code. On what? You'll get away with it by local law. But there's another side to that. And on the other side, there's a courthouseicubracracial. What does the Genab Zülcelal do there? Of course you will submit to that divine judgment. But there's another thing I want to talk about, which is that the Reza, which you're trying to exonerate, which is known as the lead perpetrator in the 17-25 December operation, by putting the Turkish flag behind it, which you're trying to clear, will, of course, be drawn to international accounting, as the perpetrator of an international mob operation, which has been applied internationally to money laundering and Iran. As a result, the study began in Iran, and will continue elsewhere. And when it comes to Turkey, those involved in the relationship with Reza Zarrab in Turkey will also be subject to international reasoning as his perpetrator. Within the scope of this judgment, the independent and neutral judiciary of the Republic of Turkey has studied these issues, done its research, done its investigation, done its prosecution, established its verdict on the interests. So you can no longer take the judgment made in Turkey into the international area. Instead of acting in a reasonable and legal way, you produce evidence against yourself by these laws. With this evidence against you, he will be tried in an international court, and as a result, these laws against you will be used. My dear friends, there is also a second dimension of this, related to Syria, and related to Hatay, related to the trucks stopped in Hatay. Everybody knows everybody now. Turkey listened to Germany, America listened, everyone listened. So I sent 2,000 trucks of weapons from the Undersecretary of MIT. The state of the Republic of Turkey is at risk of being tried again for providing logistic support for international terrorism, for providing headquarters services, for sending these weapons, and for bringing them to trial, even these laws that you have brought to international trial will be evidence, preventing the fair trial of Turkey's independent and neutral judiciary. I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0133par0064	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on Article 49: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the sign to the letter after the declaration of the Law under Article 49 of the proposed 655 rows. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 49. We propose and propose that the clause in the article be changed to "controversy." Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk Ali Sarıbaş From Can Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 49th Law Proposal in the current 655 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Faruk Bal Yusef Halaçoğlu Mustafa Kalaycı Scholar Light S. Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0134par0089	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0133par0090	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0135par0091	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0133par0092	Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0136par0095	Mr. President, dear friends, good evening to you all, and I give you my regards. I'd like to draw your attention to Article 2 of the Law on the Foundations and Tasks of District Administration Courts 2576, Management Courts and Tax Courts. In this article, the regional administrative courts will be established by considering the volume of work and the geographical position. All of the provinces of Isparta and around it, known as the region of the lakes, are all connected to the province of Constantinople as its host. Antalya, Isparta, Burdur and Afyon in particular, I would like to share with you that these four provinces have suffered a serious loss in this sense. When we look at Antalya's data, the number of lawsuits in the administrative courts is four, the number of cases in the tax courts is seven, and the number of cases in the district administration courts is five. When you look at the centers established in terms of the number of cases, other than Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, Konya, Gaziantep, Bursa, Erzurum and Samsun. On top of that, if we add the case files of Isparta, Burdur, and Afyon, as it turns out, there is no shortage of work volume in our region. As for the geographic position, you all know that it's a coercion, that it's a compulsion against Afyon, Isparta and Burdur, especially Antalya, which is part of the Lakes region. Isparta is one hour and fifteen minutes from Antalya and Afyon, sir, and twenty-five minutes from Burdur. If there is an Isparta assembly centre in this region, both Afyon and Burdur will be taken. The Minister is here. On the one hand, our government is taking the service to the foot of the citizen. You will say, "You will also impose our region's commitment to Konya." Anthalya-Conya, dear friends, four hours, opium, three hours, Isparta and Burdur, three hours each. Dear friends, to both citizens and lawyers in the region, it's clearly, in a manner of speaking, an act of denial. Mr. Secretary, you're also a lawyer, so you're very familiar with the daily life and intensity of lawyers. If you think about the hours of the hearing -- it takes all day. Lawyers have to follow a lot of cases in one day, you know. Thus, either the cases in his province or the assembly centre of the province, Inconceived, if he has a trial, he can't enter it, he can't go. Which, you can appreciate, brings out the issue of serious loss of rights. As I have just told you, I also think that the Minister will not be cool with the right demands of the barmen, lawyers and citizens in the region, and I would like to say that I expect a re-organisation of the law from him as a reference centre for Isparta. Also, Mr. Recep, our MP for the Isparta Justice and Development Party, is a lawyer. I would like to say that I expect him to have an active, effective attitude toward this matter. Again, Mr. Secretary, there was also an application to your Ministry on this matter last year. I would like to thank our friends, all the bar managers in the region, especially Mr. Gökmenoglu, the president of the Isparta Bar, who brought us this legitimate request of citizens, bar members, lawyers. So I say we expect a step from the Ministry to resolve this matter, to eliminate it, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0137par0103	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 49. We propose and propose that the clause in the article be changed to "controversy." Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0138par0110	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0137par0111	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0139par0112	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0137par0113	Ali Sarıbaş, Çanakkale MP, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0140par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 49 of Law Proposal No. 655. I hereby salute your high council with love and respect. Dear friends, with all the problems of our country, the AKP, the bag sacks, and the proposals that it puts in our people, Turkey is still stalling the Grand National Assembly, and every two years, over the course of three years, it continues to look like a full-time parliament, which has worked very hard, and it's also taking the valuable time of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; it's making arrangements to serve its own interests. Over the past 12 years, it has only changed the Public Contraction Act 175 times, taking everything into exceptions and exemptions, changing many substances, leading to corruption and corruption. What happened to December 17th, December 25th, corruption allegations, Lighthouse allegations of corruption? First, what happened to the millions of dollars that appeared in the shoe boxes of the Minister of the European Union, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Economics and Urbanism, and the money-counting machines at the homes of the sons of the Minister of Economics and Urbanism? Try to cover up the allegations by changing the law as much as you want. We won't forget them, we won't forget them, and we'll continue to be his followers. You're trying to make a judgment based on your numerical majority in Congress, to take over the judiciary, under the command of the administration. Even though you're talking about democracy, you're actually trying to strengthen your own power and bring it to a theocratic structure. By altering the structure of the Constitutional Court and the HSYK, you created a new HSYK in the Ministry of Justice post-September 12th referendum. In addition to the ministry, you've taken the deputy secretary, the assistant secretary, the chief of staff, and the head of the Academy on board. Recently, you've come across laws signed by a few of our AKP MP friends, who have recently been smuggled out of the fire and are completely opposed to each other, without the opinion of institutions and organisations concerned about the matter, even on the Council of Ministers. On the one hand, you're stalling this House, while you're able to pass any laws you want with your fingers in time, while you're trying to rule this country by shutting down the House, which you've usually applied for a lot. In the Public Contraction Act, you have changed many substances, making the way for corruption and corruption, taking everything into exceptions and exemption. On the one hand, you're turning the judiciary into a total takeover operation and public resources into rantas, while you're investing in capital, and you're on the other side, you're taking democracy, human rights, freedom of the public, and you're heading towards the dictatorship. You're trying to make your way through this by making any means legitimate, by spreading the barriers to achieving your ultimate goal, while the plans to liquidate the Republic of Turkey and take over the state are successfully carried out. Dear President, my dear friends, this country is all of us. You continue to destroy the fate of our country, the future of our people as the AKP government. Since the day the AKP came to power, it has led our country into chaos with false practices that cannot be compensated for in every area, and has led the country into the process of tearing up the country as it did not leave the institution and the organisation without a fight. Everything is forbidden in our country. AKP has completed its mission. For our country's future, the AKP will now take its place on the dusty shelves of history and continue to take its place. In the 2015 elections, it will surely be accounted for by our people. I offer love and respect.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0141par0123	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sign be added "after the declaration of "the next" act " in Article 49 of the current law proposal 655. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0142par0130	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0141par0131	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0143par0132	We disagree.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0144par0133	Motive...
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0141par0134	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are four motions on Article 50: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To be added to the framework decree of Article 50 of the current Law Proposal No. 655 to the framework decree of Article 50; to the proposal of the list "; to be added to the list number 6 (6); to be added to the proposal; to the list added (4); to the Danishtay Central Service, under the rule of Law No. 190, to the supplementary service of the Court of Justice of Justice (I), and to the 5th rank of Chief, to come after the list (6). Mahir Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Metin Ashınk İdris Şahin Hacı Bayram Türkoğlu Mehmet Öğurk Now, I'm going to have three motions in common, and I'm going to read them and process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 50th amendment to the current law proposal in 655 rows. We propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Erol Dora Sırrıyya Önder The signatures of the other motion are: Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Riza Özturk The signatures of the other motion are: Yusuf Halaçoğlu Faruk Bal Kemalettin Yılmaz Mustafa Kalaycı Alim Im Emin Çınar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0145par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0141par0169	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0146par0170	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0147par0171	Motive... Mr. President. - I'm reading the grounds for the same motions: The change was intended to ensure integrity through the suggestions we made regarding the material based on staffing.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0148par0175	Mr. Altay, should I have the motive read?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0149par0176	Motive...
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0148par0177	I'm reading the reason: Since we feel that the current clause does not contribute positively to the judicial activity, we propose that the clause be removed from the proposal of the law. Hasan Huseyin Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP who wants to talk about the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0150par0183	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers on Article 50 of Proposition No. 655. I salute your high council. Article 50 of the proposal organises issues related to the violation of the Supreme Court, the Court and the international staff. At the same time, the world's largest, most numerous high judgment is being created, while the establishment of an organization abroad, as well as enough justice has been distributed within the country, is causing a series of smiles. Moreover, for this arrangement, the Supreme Court has been cited as an excuse for the prosecution's workload, for convincing the public and parliament of the waiting number of files. The same reason, however, was also put forward when the Supreme Court and the State's number of cases was set up. With the courts and the positions for those courts in the middle, it is a waste to redesign for the same reason, and waste is forbidden to our faith. It was expressed by a high judge who would reduce the workload by 90 per cent of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. On the other hand, the establishment of an organization abroad, the presence of judges from the Ministry of Justice, will cause damage to the hierarchy of our diplomatic missions there. Moreover, these staffs will be used either as barley or for the personnel requested to be passed. In a painting like this, it would be more appropriate to remove this arrangement from the offer. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, if the package of justice is spoken in another country, those who hear it think it is intended for a more effective, more efficient justice and judicial process. However, there are regulations in our country that prevent judicial packages from being tried by some politicians, their sons, their in-laws, bureaucrats, contractors who work together. Today, our friends from the Justice and Development Party, who exist in parliament, say yes to regulations that prevent their suspected party members from being tried for corruption and bribery, called reform, so they form a secular staff from their parties. In Turkey, today, not only are there AKP people, but there are some people who are secular and unjudgmentable from other parts. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) murderers in parallel state construction in the east and southeast are also not on trial. In the east and southeast, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) murderers are the governor, the governor, the governor, appointer of the governor, blocker of the roads, collect taxes, establish law enforcement teams, build courts, burn them, destroy them, but law enforcement and judicial staff are the only ones watching. Their gang leader, the killer in Imran, was not questioned or judged because he was the founder and leader of the ACK, nor was he able to be held responsible for the deaths of nearly 50 people during October 6th or 7th. Now, with these staffs, will justice be established? Is this how you build justice? A AKP government waiting at the door of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) for public order only employs a staff package to make judges and prosecutors the party's attorneys, who are district presidents. That's not a judgment package. A package like this would be a bomb pack, and this bomb would destroy our national unity. With these thoughts, I welcome the acceptance of our motion from your grand delegation and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0189	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly To be added to the framework decree of Article 50 of the current Law Proposal No. 655 to the framework of Article 50; to the proposal of the list "; to be added to the list number 6 (6); to be added to the proposal; to the list added to the list (4); to change the supplementary service of the Council of the Council of Justice (I) to the general body of the 4th class (I) and to come after the list (5). Mahir Ünal (Heromarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0152par0196	I appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0197	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0153par0198	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0199	I'm reading the reason: Under the motion, the Justice Department's ruling candidate staff, which will serve in the rural community, has been violated and the rankings of chief staff added to the State Department are being changed. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on Article 51: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of the law, which is included in Article 51 of the proposed 655, should be changed in the form of the decree on the date of the release. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Sırrıyya Leader Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 51 of Framework 51 of Law Proposal No. 655. A) The date of its release of Article 49 is 15/1/2012, B) In the date of its release of other substances, It's in effect. Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mahir Ünal Metin Ashınk Haci Bayram Türkoğlu AhmetTevfik Long İdris Şahin Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 51 of the law proposal for amendments to certain Laws and Laws has been changed in the following way. A) on the date of the release of Articles 35, 36, 37 and 49, on the date of the release of 15,01,2012, B) The rest of the material is in effect in the date of its release. Gürkut Acar Mahmut Tanal Ömer Süha Aldan Ali İhsan İkturk Veli Ağbaba Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0154par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0232	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0155par0233	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0234	I'm reading the reason: The date of validity in certain substances is specified by the motion as an exception. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and submit the following amendment of Article 51 of Framework 51 of Law Proposal No. 655. A) The date of its release of Article 49 is 15/1/2012, B) In the date of its release of other substances, It's in effect. Mehmet Doğan Kubat (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0156par0247	It's in the discretion of the High Council, sir.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0248	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0157par0249	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0250	I'm reading the reason: It is recommended that the amendment to rule 375 will be valid in the rule of law (II). I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, the 51st article of the proposal, which has just been adopted, is fully regulated. Therefore, there is no way for Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and his friends to implement the motion, including the amendment to the clause, to remove the motion from the process. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 52. We propose and propose that the clause of "this law" be changed into "this law." Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Ali Rıza Özturk Orhan Güçük Üçük Üçük Üçük Ünük Üçük Ünük Ünük Ünük Ünük Ünük Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under Article 52 of the current law proposal 655, the Council of Ministers shall conduct it. Its declaration is "run by the Board of Ministers." We offer and offer to change it into form. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ertuğrul Furçı Sırrı Surayya Önder Erol Dora İstanbul Mardin Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0158par0269	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0270	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0159par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0272	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to make the narrative clear. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 52. We propose and propose that the clause of "this law" be changed into "this law." Ali Riza Ozturk (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0160par0281	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0282	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0161par0283	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0151par0284	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0162par0287	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, now, in the native Turkish language of the law, the Commission and the Minister don't even agree. So, this is something I'd like to bring to your attention. Yes, valuable MPs, for as long as I can remember, Turkey has always been a developing country. It is always said that Turkey can't evolve among developing countries. I've been an MP since 2007. A lot of packages are arranged to solve the problems of the judiciary. Well, there's a blockage in the judiciary, so there are regulations to overcome the obstruction of this judiciary and speed up the judiciary, so that's the name, but that's not the point. Until the investigation process on December 17th and 25th on the charge of major corruption and bribery, arrangements in this country were made to eliminate a secret structure within the state called Ergenekon. In fact, the judiciary has been the basis of political conflict and political storms have been unleashed over the judiciary. In the arrangement made after December 17, 25th, laws were passed to eliminate what you once called the fethullah Gulen congregation - in the nail - in the parallel structure. So, frankly, at every stage, the political power has made laws to intimidate, to make those who are not in their best interests, to kneel to those who are not in their own interests. He used his majority of parliament to make such arrangements. In fact, this Parliament has never been able to show its virtue of surrendering to justice and justice; on the contrary, it has attempted to take judgment with its own political ideas. This arrangement is actually part of that understanding. In fact, the judges and prosecutors on duty here were given a salary increase, but they weren't given to public defenders. Again, no increase was given to workers, clerks, pencil members, editor-in-chief, or other staff at the courthouse, representing the essential element of these criminal activities. Again, retired judges and prosecutors were not given a raise because political power had no business with them. On October 12th, HSYK elections would be held, and HSYK would be restructured, and there would be restructuring of the Supreme Court, the Court, and even the structure of the first level of judicial courts. These aren't the right things, guys. According to the conjunctive, making laws should not be made a rule, but the majority of Parliament should not really be used as a means of taking revenge on political opponents over the judiciary. Of course, I think it should be fought in accordance with international law, within the basic principles of law against illegal forces and within the framework of existing international rules. But in order to meet your daily interests -- I won't say "no" -- the laws the government has brought to meet its daily interests, and to make it a rule, a method that is constantly applied -- it actually undermines Parliament's reputation, and it leads Parliament to recklessness to do the law. Indeed, the Supreme Court is one of the Supreme Courts which we consider sacred. By taking over the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, it is not right to change the structure of the agency in the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice. The Council of Judges and Prosecutors, we all know that the only constitutional authority in the Supreme Court and the Prosecutors' Office is to select a member, but beyond that, to give HSYK new powers by law, to supply new powers, means to circumvent the Constitution, to resort to crooked ways. After the 12th of September, you thought it was you, the HSYK, you praised them on these platforms, all the way to December 17th and 25th. I hope, and I hope, that you don't complain about the HSYK you're creating now, again, in the future. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, I think that the law, once and for all, should be taken care of by the lawyers. Although this law, of course, has its virtues, I will vote with a lawyer's identity because I think it's a package that actually undermines legal security. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0163par0296	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Members of parliament, it has been determined by our presidency that there has been a mistake in voting on the three motions issued on Article 41. In Article 41, the motion for the draft should be voted in the third place, while the motion for the petition of the muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan and his friends was mistakenly voted along with the motion of Mardin MP Erol Dora and his friends. The reasons for all three motions appear to be explained to the General Assembly by the motionmakers. Since there is a mix-up in the vote of these motions, I will repeat the motions and votes on this clause in terms of the health of the law under Article 13 of the Civil Code. Depending on that, I'll re-vote the item in question. Now, I'm rereading the three motions on Article 41: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 41. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article into,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Turgut Dibek Omar Süha Aldan Candan Yüceler Orhan Delegate Ali Riza Özturk Now, I'm going to have two proposals in common, and I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 41 of the current law proposal 655 rows be removed from the proposal text. Pervin Buldan Secret by Sebahat Tuncel The signatures of other proposals are: Faruk Bal Yusuf Halaçoğlu Kemalettin Yılmaz Emin Çınar Alim Ilm Mustafa Kalaycı Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0164par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0163par0323	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0165par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0163par0325	I'm reading the reasons: The change was intended to preserve the current arrangement. Because the strong doubt based on concrete evidence in the current arrangement is a system of universal law norms and criminal law. There is no doubt that if the bill is legalized, there will be examples that will lead to illegality. I'm reading the other reason: The concept of reasonable doubt, which has been implemented in our criminal and criminal law for many years, was transformed into strong doubt based on concrete evidence in February 2014, in order to block measures that would be carried out due to the investigations of corruption on December 17 and 25th. After taking significant distances in the judicial bodies in the AKP's fight against parallel structure, it is incompatible with rights and justice to return to the concept of reasonable doubt to be used as a weapon against the parallel structure this time. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A proposal for amendments to the Law under the Law of Justices and Prosecutors and by some Laws and Laws is 41. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article into,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. Turgut Dibek and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0166par0338	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0163par0339	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0167par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0163par0341	I'm reading the reason: Such changes have been needed in terms of greater care and the rights of the individual during the search warrant. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to Article 86 of the Civil Code, Ali Ihsan Yavuz, MP of Sakarya who wants to specify the color of the game and in favour.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0168par0348	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to state the color of my vote, due to Article 86 of the Civil Code, on the proposed law proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. We continue to practice the law day and night in order to meet the needs of our ruling, transforming, changing Turkey. Another reformed law proposal from this Kabul, hopefully, will soon be legalized. Therefore, I would like to say that my vote on this proposal, which I consider to include some reformary arrangements, would be in favour of the color of my vote, which will soon be passed by you, our nation and Turkey, for the benefit of our votes, I salute you all.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0169par0352	Thank you. Again, Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul MP, who has asked for a word against the color of the game. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0170par0356	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, I wish the congressman who told me the color of the game wasn't a lawyer. It is the greatest evil in the legal community when a friend of ours, who is a lawyer, goes out and calls reasonable doubt a reformation, describes the fact that the case, the evidence, the information, is hidden from the lawyer under Article 153 of the Penal Code, as a reform. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, what does this law bring? One, these law enforcement forces are disregarding the separation. What does this law bring? The person facing any charges, sir, my lawyer would like to see the file. He wants to refute the prosecutor's claims. When he says, unfortunately, if the court gets a confidentiality decision, neither can our citizen's attorney see that file, nor can he see it, but a lawmaker, who is a lawyer, calls it reform. O citizen, know this. Two: now, what else is in this file? In this case, it's very comfortable, a republic's attorney is giving the magistrate where he belongs the authority to seize and search in 81 districts of Turkey.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0171par0361	He's changed.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0172par0362	Mr. Mahmut, they've changed.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0170par0363	What does this law bring? This law blocks the freedom of rights. What does this law bring? Look, about doubt, about evidence, you appreciate, there's reasonable doubt, there's enough doubt, there's strong doubt, there's ratings of doubt here. The simplest is reasonable doubt. Let's say, just now, sir, in a file hidden from a lawyer, or... we've got a friend of ours who's a Bursa MP, a lawyer, who walks there all the time in a state of excitement. With his exciting walk, if there's any action in that neighborhood, the lawman will say: "Come, brother, I doubt you." That's reasonable enough for you to be taken into custody as a suspect. There's a very comfortable police station, a deposition. I mean, in this case, there's only matter and sugar in the sauce, and there's a partial improvement in the rights of the Supreme Court. We support that, but other than that, the arrangements that are available are not all the arrangements that society needs, they're very comfortable. He doesn't respond to pensions, he doesn't respond to students' needs at home, he doesn't respond to the needs of the unemployed, he doesn't respond to the needs of the teachers waiting for him to appoint. Who's he responding to? Friends, this event only responds to the needs of political power. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Ahmet Hermimaya, of course, in the profession, in law, in the profession of law. There is a beautiful saying: If we want to be respected by the law, we need to make laws that will be respected first. Now, second of all, Martin Luther has a very good saying: "Man must have a responsibility to disobey and disobey the unfair laws. " These laws are really unfair laws. These laws are laws that do not require respect. These laws are laws set out for the needs of political power, not for the needs of society. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] In this sense, if we are correcting the rights of judges alone, why don't we correct the rights of other judicial employees, who are part of the judiciary, and correct the rights of those who are subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0173par0369	We'll fix it, we'll bring him in.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0170par0370	Why don't you give the judges a pardon for your record, and why don't you give the other officers a write-off, and why don't you get the court-martialed staff a pardon?
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0173par0371	We'll take care of it, we'll take care of it.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0170par0372	In this sense, there are indeed many officers awaiting a pardon of record, in accordance with the Law of State Officers No. 657. Lawyers are waiting for a pardon on the record. So the Minister of Justice used to be a lawyer, and the Commissioner was a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0174par0374	I'm honored to be a lawyer.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0170par0375	So in that sense, we're against the others, except for the rights of this law, this proposal, and the rights of the judges alone, and we're going to vote against them. Your information is available.
tbmm-2014-12-02sit05spe0175par0378	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Congressmans, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Mr. President, I'm announcing the open vote of Law Proposal No. 655: ▪ Number of votes used: 228 [[x]] So the offer is accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Ministry of the Law and the Foreign Commission Report, which is on the agenda at the 4th time of the agenda, confirming the Security and Health Convention on Mines 176. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Thus, it is Wednesday (December 3rd 2014) that we discuss legislation and proposals in order to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
