ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108638	Your Honor, I'd like to introduce you to what happened yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Policy. Namely, for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, I must warn you, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been broken, it is not allowed to vote on the proposal of one member of the committee, Vice-President of Parliament God Petrov, Committee President Miro Kovac, to compete, without knowing who voted for him and said that he had seven votes for that conclusion, and that is to accept the Marrakech Agreement, i.e., reports from the government, while fellow Petrov proposed to discuss it here at the plenary in front of all MPs. [[/Incursion President: Just a little please, so what is this formal conversion?]] You have to look at that video, no one voted, no one knows who voted for the government's conclusion. The Rules of Procedure have been broken, and I ask the Board itself and all MPs who are members of the board, as they voted and if they voted at all on that committee, because there were not at all seven people who would vote for such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108639	Dear Grmoi thank you, you know that in such situations you should contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. If you think the Rules of Procedure have been broken, do so, I invite you to do so. Now let's go to the first item of the agenda that's: - Proposal for a Law on the Use of an assistant dog, first reading, P.Z. No. 496. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and would now ask the proposing representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy, respected Marija Pleikosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108640	Thank you very much, President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The now applicable Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a 1998 guide dog is the only Croatian Association for the Education of Guides and Mobility Dogs, entrusted clear powers to adopt a solution to the right of a blind person to use public transport means with a guide dog and to have free access to public places, and to issue a card proving that the blind person has the right to determine the said solution. The only Croatian Association for the Education of Guide Dogs and Mobility has the possibility of training guide dogs and training a blind person with a guide dog. Over time, circumstances have arisen, which have gone beyond the normative solutions of the current law, which have led to the need to establish a more modern legal framework, which would define the activity of using the assistant dog, extend the circle of legal persons carrying out the activity, expand the circle of the assistant dog users, redefine the type of dog, which is used to help, extend the rights of the assistant dog, define the rights of others involved in the socialisation process, the education of the dog or the education of persons. The aim of the proposed law is to extend the possibility of providing, defined services by other legal persons, thus making it easier for users to make use of the assistant dog through better regional representation of the service provider. The aim is also to expand the circle of users, primarily to include children with developmental difficulties, and to ensure the protection of persons who are involved in the fall of assistants and the treatment dog facilitates everyday life and the therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures make them better. This can only be achieved by defining the process of teaching dogs and training users, as well as by special education of persons participating in the process of education and their rights during the training of dogs and training of users, in particular the right to special designations proving their status. By way of effect of the Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog, a legislative framework for the implementation of the activity, which has been achieved within one year from the entry into force of the Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog, shall be established. The following, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament accept the proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108641	Thank you. Now we'll see only for the replicas, the first is the cell, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108642	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected State Secretary with Associates, first reading of the draft Law on the Use of Assistant Dogs, I see as one good background and one progress in enabling services related to therapeutic, or rehabilitation dogs as assistants. I am interested in whether, in addition to user groups, people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities were thinking and, let's say, certain categories within mental disorders, because there are scientific literature, which speaks, for example, in people with dementia, people with schizophrenia, there are certain scientific articles and whether there are at this point until the second reading, possible possibility of expanding user groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108643	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108644	Thank you. I thank you for asking that we have been thinking about all the people who, a person with chronic diseases, whose functional ability is reduced in performing daily life activities as well as children with disabilities. Like children with difficulties. So these categories, of course, include the people you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108645	Another replica, dear colleague of Lipošak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108646	I would like to thank the President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Of course I welcome this legal solution, especially in terms of the possibility of extending users to children with developmental difficulties. And in particular, in contact with the Associations of the Blind, the Association of the Blind of the City of Ogulin, I can tell you that they welcome this solution and their view is that the dogs that are being trained with us are very high quality and that the people who work with them are doing it in a very good way, but they also note that the very limited number of these dogs, since the needs are as great as possible. If we allow this legal solution to expand the number of users in the first row and, of course, the number of dogs or the possibility that the largest number of users will receive such a satisfactory solution. On the ground, such a shift will do a lot of good things, move things really for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108647	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108648	Thank you very much. Yes, in fact, the intensity of this Law is to expand the circle of users and also to grow as many quality dogs as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108649	Third replica, dear colleague of Alpharev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108650	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable State Secretary, therefore, and my previous colleagues who spoke about this particular article regarding the dog user, or the therapeutic dog. I would like to point out, however, that this proposal, your proposal, in some ways, limits the number of users, though, you have extended the circle of users, but if it remains this way, you will exclude, say, older people, you will exclude young people with behavioral disorders, you will exclude persons who, for example, are defenders, you will exclude, therefore, a number of other users who are users of individual or group rehabilitation treatments from the welfare and benefit of a therapeutic dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108651	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108652	Thank you for asking the most respected MPs, but you're wrong. Namely, even older people can also be users, as stated, an adult, a business capable person or a person with a chronic illness whose functional ability is reduced in the performance of daily life activities, can be a helper dog, and I repeat, a child with difficulties. So there's no limit. The only restriction can be at present much greater demand than the possibility or number of helpers dogs, but this is already another problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108653	Let's go to the fourth line, dear fellow Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with associates. So, I'd like to ask you nicely just one clarification article. 2nd, 2nd and 1st and 2nd, namely, why I ask you, here is defined, meaning, who is the user, says the user is a person with a disability or a person with a chronic illness whose functional ability is reduced in performing daily life activities and then states the definition of a child, as well as in dogs, therapeutic dogs, who in the child is indicated that the dog user is a child with developmental difficulties or an adult with disability or chronic illness. Now where I guess that would be interpreted as a broad term, so the user that the child is, but, just, so, is chronic disease in the child, like before cancer, I don't know if these, like, expressions are covered, so I'm just asking you to clarify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108655	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108656	Thanks for asking. Your Honor, we'll make this clear. Of course we were also referring to all the children who are chronically ill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108657	Let's go to the fifth line, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108658	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. True, respected secretary of state, after the Law on the Movement of Blind Persons with the help of the 98th-year guide dogs, so now after 20 years we have this legislative proposal in the parliamentary procedure, I certainly welcome it. In this brief address, I'm just going to say something and I'm going to be attached to this article. 2. So, two things I've been researching. We must distinguish dogs from guides, therapeutic and rehabilitation dogs and in art. 2nd in the 12th century in public space, I also asked yesterday the representatives of the Church, the Catholic Church, could the therapeutic dog, the rehabilitation dog guide enter those public spaces, so, yes, they can, they allow those dogs to enter the Bogolje, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108659	This is what we came to the end of the line. Dear Secretary of State, will you respond to what your colleague Babic said? You don't need, okay, okay. Let's go to the Committee's reporters, then, if he wants to take a word of it, yes. The Honorable Chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108660	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry and parliamentary representatives. So, at its 59th session held on 28 November, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the proposal for a law on the use of the assistant dog, which was then delivered to the President of the Parliament. The Committee discussed the Law as a parent working body in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Law. 85. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In the opening section, the applicant’s representative explained that the proposed Law aims to extend the possibility of providing defined services by other legal persons, thus making it easier for users to make use of the helper dog through better regional representation of service providers, as well as to extend the circle of users and children with developmental difficulties. By defining the process of training dogs and training of users with special training of persons participating in the process of education and their rights during the training of dogs and training of users, in particular the rights to special designations proving that status will ensure the protection of persons who are involved in the inclusion of a dog assistant and a treatment dog facilitates daily life, and the therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures make it more efficient. The debate praised the adoption of a new legal framework for this area, especially for the fact that over time circumstances have arisen beyond the normative solutions of the applicable Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a 1998 guide dog and a rule that has led to the need to establish a more modern legal framework. They are also praised solutions that define the activity of using the assistant dog, extend the circle of legal persons performing the activity as well as the circle of the assistant dog users, redefine the types of dogs used for help, extend the rights of the assistant dog user and define the rights of others participating in the socialisation, training of dogs and education of persons. Following the debate, the members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog and any objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate would be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108661	Thank you, you can immediately honor your fellow Strenja and stay or return, to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108662	I thank you, once again I welcome you and welcome the adoption of this law of MOST independent lists will support the adoption of this Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog. What I would like to note is that we are sorry that it has not joined the adoption of yet a comprehensive law on animal-supported interventions. So this includes only one segment, and these are the dogs of the assistants, the therapeutic dogs, and not the whole action, the therapeutic activity of the animals. Of course, on the observations of a whole series of associations, the ministry stated that the intensity of the professional regulation holder was to further regulate the provision of support for the use of one type of animal, dog, as the most common form of assistance and support for persons with the help of animals, although I would like to point out once again. and therapeutic riding is something that may have been legally regulated at this point in time. For some people the dog is certainly more than a pet or a partner at work, some he is a partner in life and enables more quality of life by helping in countless ways. Such dogs help disabled people, lead blind people, help deaf people, while dogs in developed countries daily visit children’s hospitals, children with special needs, and nursing homes in our country. So the animal can have a positive impact on us, especially on children and people with developmental difficulties. From improving physical and psychological development after their presence, the smell and various activities of therapeutic dogs facilitate daily challenges and improve the life and independence of their users. Dogs respond to touch, smile, gesture, view and feel safe and necessary beside them. Dogs improve the mood and contribute to personal satisfaction, unselfishly offer friendship, compassion, unconditional acceptance, thus giving us the sense of security that is very important to these people. The exceptional benefit and action of animals is in the field of emotion, anxiety and depression and socialization. So the dog acts as a motivational factor in everyday life activities, contributes to better social and emotional development, develops emotions of motor skills, etc., so the whole series is why dogs absolutely need to be involved in the lives of these people. Therefore, as we have stated, the law will extend the possibility of providing activities and helping users to use the helper dog, thus making it easier for users to make use of the helper dog service through better regional representation and expanding the circle of users. Finally, the dog training and training process will be defined. Let me remind you, therefore, in 1990 a Croatian Society for the Breeding and Training of Dogs Guides of Blind Persons who changed their name to the Croatian Association for the Education of Dogs Guides and Mobility was founded. At that time, as the only NGO and non-profit organisation in the Republic of Croatia, the association developed rehabilitation programmes by involving dogs of assistants for mobility of the blind and other persons with disabilities and had public authority to adopt a solution to the right of a blind person to use and transport public transport by a dog and to have free access to public places and to issue a card proving that the blind person has the right to a solution. In 1998, the Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a guide dog was adopted, and on 26 May 1999, the Regulation on training of a blind person to move with the help of a guide dog, which among other things prescribed the right of a blind person to use means of transport and free access to public places with a guide dog. In the meantime, it was established and started with the work of the Centre for Rehabilitation Silver, an institution of social care for the training of persons with visual impairment for orientation and mobility with the help of a guide dog, training of persons with physical or mental impairment for the use of a rehabilitation dog, training of a leader of a therapeutic dog or an expert in the inclusion of a therapeutic dog for working with persons with physical or mental impairment of breeding and socialization of a dog. Some other associations have also been established with the aim of including specially trained assistant dogs and their leaders in different therapeutic educational and other activities with different user groups, which has led to circumstances beyond the exclusive normative laws and regulations which now have the need to establish a more modern legal framework that would define the activity of providing assistance and support to users of the use of a dog as assistants and a therapeutic dog. Furthermore, the draft bill mentions the expansion of the user circle but nowhere, for example. do not lead what I expected, and this is the people of older age especially those located in nursing homes, users of adults' homes, mental illnesses, children in children's homes and youth, children with behavioral disorders, users who need help developing social skills, children and women victims of family violence, homeless people, addicts, victims of crisis events, citizens who generally improve quality, way of life if they are lonely, war and civilian victims, victims of disaster, defenders. I personally know the defender who got out of his PTSD circle who was, really completely disabling him by working with dogs and raising further dogs, and today he came back to life after practically 10 years with those dogs was out of civilization. So, positive dog action can be applied to all structures, to all segments, to virtually all groups of bloated citizens. I am sorry that this part is not extended to the new law, so there is no legitimate reason to restrict only to a user group made up of children with developmental difficulties because in practice, assistant dogs include therapeutic and educational work and other user groups other than those mentioned, e.g. with young people with disorders like I said, children with malignancies, people who are seriously ill, who are in hospitals. I also saw and even made some concessions so that people who were very gravely ill would have at least one hint of joy and saw someone who had spent the last 15 years of his life with him to see him before he ended his earthly life. When we talk about the activity of helping to support the use of an assistant dog or a therapeutic dog, it is therefore about the activity of helping to support the use of the assistant dog as an organised activity for the purpose of obtaining customer independence. Therefore, in order to carry out activities, a legal or natural person as referred to in Article 4 must have the appropriate space and equipment to train the assistant dog users to use the dog, provide socialisation services, training of the assistant dog and the therapeutic dog, training of the assistant dog manager, training of the professional head, etc. and needs a number of professionals and other workers. And that would require a previous opinion from the Ministry of Science and Education, for example. In KBC Rijeka, there is a therapeutic team that conducts interventions to assisted animals, with the consent of the Ministry of Health and in the majority of the basics of the school in the Republic of Croatia, are active therapeutic teams that carry out animal interventions with the previous consent of the Ministry of Science and Education and with a positive expert opinion of the Agency for Education and Education. Furthermore, before entering the schooling program, the dog should have confirmation from a doctor of veterinary medicine that it is physically healthy to perform the activities for which it is intended because a dog who has some pain or health problems cannot perform the work dog's functions. Otherwise, the welfare of not only the dog but also the patient’s safety would be compromised. In addition, for each dog that has already passed schooling and is located in the user, it would be necessary to prescribe a systematic review at least once a year, the same applies to all animal species that can be used for that purpose. Therefore, enter into the obligation of a veterinary system review once a year and mandatory dog insurance including responsibility for third parties which so far has been carried out in the Republic of Croatia by the Association for Five Theraphy Independent and in accordance with the example of the good practice of most countries in which interventions are carried out for assisted animals. Therefore, daily information is available on the users of the assistant dog, leaders of the therapeutic dogs, socialists, trainers and working instructors who are disabled from access to public space or public transport because they are defined differently by citizens, owners or employees. Everyone else reacts to a dog as you know. Someone likes dogs, someone doesn't want to because they're scared, and it's a good thing that you changed it in this draft compared to what we read in the e-consultation, and you clearly defined public space as mentioned, for example. in the Law concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. So what's public space? This is an indoor space intended for a common stay of people and includes premises in buildings where activities are carried out in the field of health, child protection, social care, education, trade, sports and recreation, catering and tourism, culture and art, transport including waiting rooms, meeting rooms, all halls for gathering of people, theatres, public transport, elevators, cabins, cableways, etc. So, in certain situations, with the appropriate label that the dog is wearing, the dog must be meant to socialise the one he is just training, as well as the socialist, to enable movement in public space, public transport, health and education institutions. The socialisation dog, which is a special category, must get used to different spaces as early as possible, allowing the user to have no difficulty with certain phobias that can arise precisely because of lack of experience. So, MOST Independent Lists will support this first reading of this law, I commend that you have put it here before us, and I hope that all examples today from this debate as well as those that you will receive during the continuation of this preparation until the final production, will respect and make this law more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108663	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, first of all, want to welcome our old and ancient guide and mobility dog association, of course, and all the workers of the Silver Centre who in these last few years and the association for more than 20 years have made their maximum to solve this problem. So back in '98. Mr. We received the first Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a guide dog and I must say that I remember these times well when this Law was passed, how difficult it was, not only to the Association and its members, but to all of us who were then involved in the Movement of Persons with Disabilities, to develop awareness of the need to adopt such a law. However, we have succeeded, and today I am proud of all the members of the Association who have insisted on doing so and helped to obtain the first Law. However, in the meantime, there was a need to expand the circle of users, the need for dogs to be used by people who are not blind, but also by any, not only those who are blind and weak-sighted, but also those who have other types of disability. This proposed Law establishes a legislative framework for the provision of assistance and support by using an assistant dog or a therapeutic dog, all for the purpose of obtaining the independence of the assistant dog users. So it's one, independence and independence of life, is something we've been working on for years and using a dog as an assistant or a therapeutic dog, is something that will help children with developmental difficulties, which will help people with disabilities, or people with chronic illnesses to be independent in life. Furthermore, there is also a definition of the service provider which includes the activity of using the assistant dog. Definition and ways of training users and other persons to use the assistant dog. Define the process of socialization and training of the assistant dog. Defining education and other persons participating in training for the assistant dog, so trainers, working instructors and so on. Both the regulation of the rights and obligations of the assistant dog users and the legal consequences of preventing the exercise of the right or criminal penalties and methods of financing. We all know that back a few years ago, so here and not so long ago, we had a sad situation when a blind person or a person using a therapeutic dog couldn't enter a health care facility, so if he was coming to rehab. This Law has been resolved and that is what will make life easier, as I have already mentioned, to all users of the assistant dog or the therapeutic dog. We have seen how many children with developmental difficulties, with various damages, sort of relieve their damage by using therapeutic dogs. And I'd also like to say that children in a term, children with developmental difficulties, come in and all those children who have possibly had malignancies or any other disorders that have a long-term consequence. Therefore, such children can be reported as children with developmental difficulties, since this is a broader definition of disability regulated by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The funds for the implementation of this Act are secured in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and what is most important is that all the Associations within the Association of Persons with Disabilities, and especially the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility, as well as the Centre of Silver, who, if someone hasn't been there, would be good to go, so that you can see how dogs are trained for, dogs that will benefit people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and chronically ill persons. I don't think there's any narrowing down here, that these terms cover everyone who ever needs to be used by a dog with an assistant or a therapeutic dog. The fact that both the Silver Centre and the members of the Guide and Mobility Association have expressed great gratitude, finally after 20 years, that we are passing a new Law that will be comprehensive. I also have to say that they said that even in the first reading it is fantastic and that nothing should change, but there is room for a second reading if there are any suggestions that this legal text should be improved. For me, the most important thing is that those whose dogs are assistants or rehabilitation dogs are needed, are already extremely satisfied. This speaks enough of the fact that this government and the resolute ministry are very much taking care of people with disabilities, that they are very much taking care of children with developmental difficulties and that they understand their needs and that what is most important, they want our fellow citizens to be equal in life with all other citizens, on the same basis. This is called equalizing possibilities. With laws like this, we give the right to all services, we give it the right to a normal life, to education and ultimately, to work and employment because that's the only way you give it to a person I would say important, give it the opportunity to live a normal life. Since this is the first reading, as I said, in my personal opinion and in the opinion of us from the HDZ Club, this is an excellent proposal, I believe that there will be some proposals until other readings, if something is quite extraordinary, well that further improves the text of this law. I believe that you in the ministry will think about it well and accept what is good, and I think it is important once again to point out that this law does not exclude anyone, therefore, and anyone who has a need for a dog with an assistant or a therapeutic dog will be able to do so. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108665	We're now going to 3 club representatives, it's SDP, a respected colleague, Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108666	Thank you, Mr. President, once again, for the secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, here at the beginning, in fact, somehow, I would actually express my pleasure, in part, as far as this article is concerned, and in fact I would express hope, that in the future, here in this house in the assembly, for a pay phone, we would also see a person together with a helper dog. And that's what the example is and that's what this law actually needs to be made possible. On the other hand, she was a colleague the other day, hoping something like this would happen in a regular debate. On the other hand, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you for a little dysthesis, I hope you won't mind, it's very much related to both this code and the days to come. These are the days that we mark and concern a person with disabilities, which is extremely important. It's the second, third December, my mistakes, but the days we mark, in December we mark the day of man's right, the day of human rights. In that sense, I would like to invite you, Mr. President, to make it possible for you, by your authority, for you and your colleague Lukacic and our lawyer for persons with disabilities, to share with us, right here, to work, but indeed, to share with us, here, and to discuss and discuss. The fact that we still don't have it, that's our shame. This House, the Parliament, must be an example of equality, an example of the first institution, which will actually implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And that's what I'm asking you, please, I hope you don't mind giving me this depression, but it's very much about this law and all of this about the rights of all who are in some way dependent on the well-willed people who have no difficulty, who have no disability. Now let's move on to what this law is all about. This is one of those laws we should all support. A law that should support the position and the law that should support those who are in opposition. Except when it comes to a law that comes from the opposition, right? Because a few months ago, on the second of May, we had a proposal from the SDP Club, then it was just like this, something a little bit measured a slightly different name, but the Law concerning the Adversary Dog was here at the meeting in the debate, and then the position and the parliamentary majority rejected it. She wouldn't accept it, no matter what it's really about the same activity, it's about using an assistant dog, using a therapeutic dog. Well, that's what's really not good. Position, rejects those laws, which improve, the right person with disabilities, just because they come from the opposition. Nevertheless, we in large part, although we are in opposition, we will in large part support this law because it is needed, it is necessary for all those whose dog is a helper or a therapeutic dog is necessary, whose life would be difficult for some and unimaginable without it. What you have mentioned in the opening part of the law, and that is true, this law is important because it should regulate the activity of the service provider, the law that should regulate the socialization processes, the training of the dog, the helper dog and the therapeutic dog that should regulate the procedures of education, trainers, working instructors because it regulates the rights and obligations of the users and the legal consequences resulting from this. And that's right, and the law needs to be done. Before I tell you, in one, in the replica part, I mentioned what I disagree with and what I think should be changed. I'll remind all of us actually what a dog or what a dog does to us and it's not in vain that sentence, repeatedly repeated, that a dog is the best friend of a man. For all those whose dog is in the role of a pet know that no one so rejoices as a dog, because the dog, with the dog, is most often bound up and the notion of unconditional love. And just maybe more than any other animal, just the dog has a positive effect on people. The person interacting with the dog feels loved, relaxed, accepted. For these reasons, a child with speech problems would rather speak to a dog than to another person. Young people with behavioral disorders will be more gentle, patient toward the dog than they will toward their peers. An elderly person with dementia may often recognize his dog before someone else and even his child born. And these are really empirical evidence to which a dog can help people. So even in standardizing relationships, man dog, we really need to respect the fact and get smart facts and treat them smartly. Now I would move on to what really seems and in this law unsettled and in some way controversial. The fact is that you noted in the opening statement that this law extends the circle of users. And that's true, compared to the previous law, that's true. However, in many parts there remains a uncertainty as to whether this will be the case and whether this article that you describe this part to which you are telling who the user really can read. You noted in Article 2, point 2, that a child with developmental difficulties or an adult with disabilities and/or chronic disease is included in individual and group therapeutic or rehabilitation procedures with a dog, a therapeutic dog. Is that a sufficient definition to include indeed all those who can use the dog and whose therapeutic dog would really be needed? I hope, you have already mentioned somehow that you will explain perhaps and the text will explain the article itself, the article itself. And I would point out that what you did not, which was not accepted through our bill there was one broad definition, and I think you should also consider it when you prepare this law until the final draft of the law, and that definition suggests that the user of a therapeutic dog is a person, a person who is involved in individual or group therapeutic and/or rehabilitation procedures in which a professional leader of a therapeutic dog or a professional person with the cooperation of a leader, a therapeutic dog, involves a therapeutic dog. This is, however, a broader definition that allows others, so all of them and service providers, where they don't have to be just a child with difficulties, so with a diagnosis, so someone who has a solution. We must also make it possible by law for those in preventive programmes, for example, to enable a wider number of users, because why not contribute to the prevention of certain difficulties by this law, why not contribute to the prevention of any disease, why not contribute to the fact that we are actually working on savings? Because we know that investment in prevention is still the best investment, it's much more expensive, everyone who works in auxiliary professions similar, knows that work on rehabilitation itself or working on treatment is far more expensive than prevention itself. Investment in prevention especially when more people are involved in group programmes can have far greater effects on, so we would say on the economy and also on the full quality of people's lives, complete and mental and status, health status of all citizens. So really consider not to exclude all elderly people who are in homes for elderly people who do not have chronic diseases, such as themselves, or others, therefore, because it is really something that is very important that we should take care of, and so should you. Finally, we should bear in mind that this law further standardises the role of the dog and introduces their work obligation. I'll just mention that I don't have that much experience. I met, therefore, a pet dog or a treatment dog at my colleague Škulić, and I know that her dog is extremely important to a person, but I know how important it is to me, too, so I have a pet, but I know, I didn't know it before, but I only have this experience for a year, but I believe, so how much that dog that's not a therapeutic dog, but in many ways every pet can really be a therapeutic dog because, in its own way, it's a role in human life, it really is. But I would like to point out that and how pets are treated, but especially when we impose the role of dog, assistant, role of therapeutic dog, the role of rehabilitator, we really consider how to act, be very careful because dogs are really not toys, nor tools, nor a means to achieve or achieve the goal. It is very important to act ethically and also all of these articles, therefore, must have that note, therefore, to talk about ethical treatment of dogs. Is, therefore, well regulated this activity, I think it's good to regulate this activity. But is this law really the most modern, perhaps not, and we will need to see, in a very very soon future, we may need a new law and, as a colleague mentioned earlier, to include, or to respond to, a more modern, still-to-be law that will answer any questions that concern assistance by or assisted rehabilitation or assistance with other animals where the welfare of man, the welfare of aid, the well-being of rehabilitation, the welfare of all persons has also been demonstrated. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108667	Thank you, fellow Alfirev. I also thank you for your initiative, but here I want to inform you that this initiative has already been given by my colleague Ljubica Lukačić and that we are working on it. I would also remind you that in this term, both HS and Croatian government sessions are translated into sign language for deaf persons and hearing persons, so here we are taking care of such things and I think it is important and thus we show care for people with disabilities. Now, before we move on to the debate of fellow Sauche on behalf of the club of HNS representatives, we will welcome the students and students of the University of Higher School of Communication Management, welcome. ... Comrade Sauch, here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108668	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am extremely pleased and happy to have the opportunity to talk here today about such a beautiful law that I see that, there is a very large consensus between the opposition and the position, in principle between all those people who actually want good and see that this law is a good shift and in relation to the existing law that our framework is wider and the number of users, means the number of people who will benefit from and benefit from their four-legged assistants. The number of legal entities of the Association dealing with this activity has also spread, which will make it very easy for persons living in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and not just, for example, in the vicinity of Zagreb to reach their assistant, i.e. to your aide dog or therapeutic dog. The current legislative framework was quite limited by him to persons, so the dogs being assisted by persons, so the blind persons who were moving with the help of the guide dog and also persons with disabilities in the wheelchair, so now this circle is spreading pretty much, and the dogs really exist in this one, because, among other things, they recognized all the graces of the therapeutic dogs and how dogs are affecting people with any kind of disorder and physical and mental disorder, so now that circle has spread, and that's something that's really good and useful. This Law, as much as I pointed out to be good, it also always exists, I think when you say the remarks, I don't think they're comments, but these are proposals that could further improve this Law. Since this is only the first reading, I believe that by the next reading we will achieve this law to be even better. I listened very carefully to everything the speakers said before me, I can say that I sign almost every word that my colleagues said, and I think that somehow, uh, especially we, who the owners of the dogs wanted today, uh, to participate in this debate because somehow we're a lot out of the first hand, you have, when you have firsthand insight into how little a creature can give you love, comfort and benefit, then somehow you need to speak on this subject and share it with others. But let's move on to the law. As I asked in my replica which is unfortunately so limited in time that I failed to express myself nor normally. In Article 2 of the concepts of this law that we have the meanings of users of the therapeutic dog and the users of the assistant dog, I think that here it would be necessary to further clarify and specify the concept of users when it comes to children because the term here is used says a child with developmental difficulties and then further talks about adults with disabilities and/or chronic diseases. Now, colleague Lukač said that this means it can be interpreted in a broader way and that then the reporters that any child who has any disease has in principle problems in development but I would like it to be a little bit better defined to remove suspicion and to allow, unfortunately, children who are suffering from malignancies, if that means, the course of their treatment enables them, so if at that point they are not compromised by the immune system or their children with whom they share a room to give them access to a therapeutic dog because I think it would be useful for them and so much to help them to ease these difficult moments. It also refers to the definition of a therapeutic dog, with me also wanting to refer here to the discussion of colleague Stenja Linic who asked what about homes for older people, whether these homes fall under the definition of health institutions, i.e. would it be possible to define that the treatment dogs and dogs are also helpers so that they are free to enter retirement homes. Also, I think what my colleague Linic said that we need to be aware that the people who own dogs are terribly attached to these animals and when someone spends at least a year not talking I don't know 5 or 10 years with their pet, with their dog's separation from that animal is terribly difficult for him. I'm talking primarily about people of older age, people who, let's say, don't have to be limited to life, it's hard for everyone to fall, if there's a situation for someone to end up in a hospital not to the side, with some serious diagnosis and having to spend it there for a long time or, unfortunately, that's such a situation, so it means that the disease is terminal I think it's extremely cruel that such a person is not allowed in some way to have access to his beloved pet, I think it's cruel and I think there should be some way to find a solution for a minister to make a decision that such an animal has the right to access its owner, of course meeting all the same criteria that they have, which must satisfy and therapeutic dogs. So animal cleanness, chipping, orderly vaccination, etc., etc. I think, too, when we talk about the positive effects of a dog therapy, there may be a situation in which someone, for example, can happen. in his life he comes into a situation that he needs a therapeutic dog, and he already owns a dog and then the question is, would anyone who already has a dog, think of what some other dog, some dog who is going to be trained for him now if he already has a dog and whether these existing dogs could be in some way, if it's in any way possible given the old dog or the dog's dog somehow to allow them to be these therapeutic dogs. I think the person who needs a treatment dog if he already owns it now is the best treatment for his own dog. I see here as a limiting factor very likely that all of this education is done according to standards, international standards that most probably prescribe that it must be young dogs, but here I'm saying maybe it would be some way to somehow get it through with some ad hoc decision or that I don't know that we find some way, some formulation through between these two readings that it can somehow get into the law. After all, I think that the demand for therapeutic dogs could be where and where greater than the opportunities of all associations in Croatia that are involved in the training of therapeutic dogs, so that this would also make it easier for them to work and relieve them, and perhaps a few dogs would be more comfortable to host from these, from, from the means of animal protection institutions and perhaps make it easier for those dogs to house their own. When we talk about the rights of the helper dog users, the guides of the assistant dog here are quite well in Article 8. are numbered all institutions in which all circumstances mean, all circumstances in which helpers dogs and persons can be found either in the dog's training process or in the socialization of the assistant dog or later on by the assistant dog. So here it is strictly prescribed and what is public space and what is public transport and what is space for passengers so that there is no confusion. I hope the president doesn't mind, but I think this is a good time to mention why it's important to point out that it can be an animal. dog present in the passenger compartment. Let's say we have two carriers, a public carrier in the Republic of Croatia owned by the Republic of Croatia, Croatia airlines and Jadrolini, what is amazing and shocking to me in the 21st century that Croatian airlines, so the air carrier normally allows the transport of smaller dogs, smaller breeds of dogs than for that prescribed container i.e. their transporter while on the other side of the Jadrolini on their fast shipping lines i.e. catamarans and hydroglyceres shall not allow the animal to enter the passenger compartment at any cost but the dog concerned must be driven on a roof in the so-called ‘.’. the box is exposed to all elements means the sea, the cold, in summer heat, the sun, in winter, so there is no dog owner who would agree to it. Now, I know this isn't a topic, but I thought it wasn't a bad idea to mention it now because this law is about users on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's also about dogs like those who are going to help these users. So, I appeal from this place at Jadrolinija Administration to change that outdated Regulation, to be seen at Croatia Airlines, so if a dog can enter the plane cabin, some dog, please under the same conditions can enter the catamaran. I mean I can't imagine a situation that someone has to urgently cross from land to island or vice versa, and can't wait for a ferry and what's he gonna do with that dog now? I'm going back and with the apology of the chairman that I've gotten a little off the subject. I'm going back on the subject, so I realized that dogs assistants are one category, and dogs, therapeutic dogs are another category, and that therapeutic dogs are involved in one joint therapy or individual therapy, they are, in fact, that this therapy is conducted by the host together with the user, that is, for the user, therefore, that they are not in some way, that there are no need for the logic of this Law, and that therapeutic dogs have the same right to access all the premises and all the circumstances as do guide dogs. Excuse me. So because, from this law, it comes from, therefore, that these approaches of the guide dog refer exclusively to the guide dog, so if you come with a therapeutic dog to a health care institution, now you correct me, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I read it wrong, because here in Article 8, you are exclusively talking about the assistant dog and the assistant dog manager, and then you're just talking later, means that the professional leader of the therapeutic dog and candidate for the therapeutic dog manager has a right to access and stay at his place of work while providing services to the therapeutic dog user. I understand the role of a therapeutic dog, I realize that it's not the same thing as a helper dog, but I don't think it would be bad and I don't see any reason why we wouldn't allow the dogs to have the same access to all forms of public space and all institutions, institutions, just like the helpers dogs do, so do the therapeutic dogs. And otherwise, I don't know how a therapeutic dog could get into some medical facility that doesn't run a therapy program with dogs. Here, maybe I'm wrong, I hope one of my colleagues might deny me later, I figured that out, maybe I'm wrong. So, my question is, can a therapeutic dog come in, say, in kindergarten and stay in kindergarten, and can he go into a hospital and stay in a hospital and, for example, enter a nursing home and stay in a nursing home without these institutions having therapy with therapeutic dogs? What's very nice to me in this Act is also concerned that if the dog's name is written here in Article 22, if the dog doesn't pass the exam, don't get the name of the assistant dog or the therapeutic dog, or if because of age or illness loses his job, the dog owner is obliged to take care of it or to adopt it, I think that this is a very noble norm, to make sure that those dogs who are, not necessarily, at the end of their education period, turn out that the champions are the best for what they should do, I think every dog is a story for themselves, so that these dogs in the end wouldn't, orphans, have some uncertain fate, I think that this is very nice, too, that when the dog comes up, especially in the dog's the helper, and the strength and the vision, and so on and so on, that they know, that they know that these dogs will be taken care. I don't have much time yet, so I'm just going to turn more attention, so what I'm saying is that the possibility of including dogs that are already with owners who need a therapeutic dog with a system and treatment therapy. Thus, in contrast to Article 21(2), the socialisation of the dog as a first step towards involving the dog in any kind of therapy or use, therefore, that age of the dog, is likely to change anything in this matter, if it is not prescribed by international standards. And lastly, I'd just like to say as far as breaking orders are concerned, I think they're good, that they've covered more or less everything, but to me, it's not clear exactly who the person who's entitled to the guide dog right now is talking to right now when someone just tells them you can't come in here right now, who you're talking to, who you're calling at that moment, I mean, it's very important to say exactly what inspection for that authority, who we can, who we should contact and who you should contact later... education of persons who are entitled to a guide dog, who will be called at exactly what point to prevent such situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108669	We're going to the last debate in the clubs, it's a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108670	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the restoring ministry. This is a good law, a noble law, and I believe that we all support it, and in fact that all those who will make some remarks, we do it in good faith, in fact very well-meaningly, I have listened to my fellow predecessor, who spoke, he also has a dog, and he included this very, very noble component, I don't have a dog, but somehow I'm trying to see it now, to support some associations that are engaged in this particular activity, and I think this is really one very, very noble activity that is very specific to me, actually, because it's made entirely by civil society, in fact, this activity has been built by civil society, they've built the Associations by their actions, so no state, the state has been involved in me maybe too late, and too little, giving support, but primarily by norming that activity. In terms of the Law itself, I think that in the opening part of the description of the situation, some information should have been complete, just that we have a better insight into the state of affairs, that we have insight into how real the needs of the assistant dogs are, for the therapeutic dog, how much the association that deals with it is, how many organizations that deal with guide dogs, how long do you think it's waiting for the dog, which is the guide dog. Besides, the law we're passing, we're passing, because it's already been run over by time. Why have we waited so long for a new law to be passed? And whether the portfolio is actually considering adopting a more comprehensive law, which will include other animals, expand the circle of users. This law is certainly a step forward in relation to the current law, but therefore, we are left with areas, which this law does not cover, this law is clearly specific to the dogs of the assistants, to the therapeutic dogs. It defines and defines exactly who the users of these dogs are, but I'm saying, I have the possibility and the wider needs and actually the arrangements of maybe some therapeutic effects and the therapeutic use of other animals. I found, for example, information that in Croatia so far has been educated around, when we talk about guide dogs, about 89 guide dogs, and that is currently working 60, means 60 blind people enjoy, or use a guide dog, and the rest of that extra number, is actually retired, so the guide dog has its working age, after which they actually retire. Retired guide dogs and now can stay in the family of users or host families that therefore enjoy the need, because they primarily stay in the family of users, because often this is pointed out, in previous discussions, simply must, make this emotional connection between the dog and the man who uses it. In any case, the bill extends the circle of users, compared to the current law, but still, as mentioned in the previous debate, there are no elderly persons, there are no children in youth homes, we do not have children who have behavioural disorders in primary and secondary schools, perhaps children and women who are victims of violence. So, everywhere, that dog, with its therapeutic effect, can find a role and we think that the ministry should be considered, but primarily in cooperation with associations, which deal with it, is there a possibility because I believe there is a need, that this circle of users should be expanded. Of course, when we talk about helpers dogs, we immediately bind them to guide dogs, or, to the blind, their effect is most visible, where their effect is immeasurable, because these people actually gain freedom of movement and independence, therefore, in motion, which they did not have until then. But the guide dog, but also these dogs and therapeutic dogs help not only those people help the environment, because that person is more independent and those people around it don't have to worry about it. In addition to helping the environment, they actually help society, because we all have sensitivity, when we see a person who is a dog user and therefore, a dog, most often it's about a helper dog, so it has a beneficial effect on me and society as a whole, because it sensitizes, actually society and promotes solidarity. So my proposal is what my colleagues in the previous debate pointed out, that in cooperation, the associations are to consider whether to expand the circle and the users, whether to expand or to wait with a new law, which will cover more fully the therapeutic activities of other animals, that is, for example, the horses, because there are no more OPGs that have horses or any horse club that does not have therapeutic riding. What I would particularly like to say, which is related to the law, and which so far may not have been pointed out, is precisely something in the formal section, therefore, when considering, i.e., at the conduct of the administrative procedure and the adoption of a solution on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the activity and providing support, the use of an assistant dog or a therapeutic dog. So, a first-degree solution is being made that we do not have the possibility of appeal, but can be a moving administrative dispute. And I think that we should consider still bringing in the appeal procedure, which is faster, which will react faster and actually decide on the rights, someone who actually submits the request and wants to deal with this activity. Finally, I would like to highlight the support of this law in first reading and what my colleague, Saucha, pointed out, I think that, with regard to access to public places and public transport, it is necessary to even the dogs of the assistants and the therapeutic dogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108671	Thank you. Before we move to an individual debate, just one more piece of information. Tomorrow at 9.30, we'll make a statement on the amendments. First we will discuss the amendments to the laws under discussion, there are 10 of them, and then the amendments to the budget, you will be notified to everyone and normally written. Now there's an individual debate coming up, and first of all is a respected colleague of Milanka Opačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108672	Thank you, Mr. President. Assistant ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it was high time that the Law on Dog Helpers in this assembly came to the agenda because it was written in the former ministry. This law is important because it is important in this part to set certain criteria, to write down legally, so from which criteria and standards should be trained by dogs assistants, who can do so on the other hand, the rights of the helper dogs themselves who at this point often do not know what their rights are, where they are allowed with a dog, where they cannot. We've had a lot of different situations. In that part of things should move borders from day to day and they move over time until before, maybe 5 or 10 years ago it was unthinkable to go into trade with some dog of that kind, now it's possible. However, of course, you still have those who need to break the barriers in their heads, you still have people who think that a dog leading a person with visual impairment should be taken to the bank and then someone takes him to the counter, so it's like taking his white stick. So what's important about this kind of user and dog is trust, an endless trust in which a person with visual impairment trusts his dog who guides him and doesn't need to take that dog, should simply let a person get to a place where he should have done something and do it with the help of dogs, dogs, this guide. The other day I happened to be in Ilica when there was a tram jam. There was a young girl with visual impairment with her dog. The dog stood still in front of the tram line, people got in trouble, suddenly something started around it that the dog was hanging around. Honestly, people need to be educated a little so that when a dog works, they leave it alone. Fortunately, a very stable dog, who did not react, could have happened perhaps something else, so the dog simply when working, should be left alone, he was raised for it, he knows very well what he will do and will never make a mistake. I remember the story of a user at the Silver Center who had visual impairment who said, you know, my bug takes me every day from Osijek to Bizovac to work and has never made a mistake anywhere, or where I should get into public transportation, or where I should get down, or if I'm going to get to my place of work, so for eight years until she died, she's led me neatly and never made a mistake. Therefore, between the user and his dog, we really don't need a middleman. It should be said that at this point, there is a very large list to wait for the assistant dog, whether the rehab dog, whether the guide dog, any kind of dog. So, a dog that can help people with disabilities or with visual impairment or children with any damage, which means that it should help all those who can in some way raise that type of dog, that as soon as possible users get dogs. Likewise, it should be said that not all dogs can be in this function because the example, the Centre of Silver in Zagreb, who turned 10 yesterday, has to take care of, in fact, the good genetic material of the dog. There cannot be every dog, therefore, a dog must be very stable, it must have certain characteristics, which are achieved by genetic material, and it has been done for years, a large number of dogs from different countries are imported, so that there is no crossover between them and the loss of that quality. One part of the dogs that are not satisfied in this process of socialization and education themselves are going to be fostered, so they turn out to be, as they say, out of the program, all in order for the users who really have these dogs to get, so to speak, the dogs they can really rely on, who will be absolutely reliable. There's a lot waiting for sensory therapy. It was fascinating for me to see children with neurological impairment not wanting treatment with parents or with therapists, but they will when the dog is with them. So there's obviously some good energy that the dog is spreading around and the kids recognize, and they're going to do some therapy and some exercise with the help of a dog, but I'm saying, with the help of their parents and with the help of a therapist. So it is extremely important that we all give together certain standards and help that if parents, children, or adults face their difficulties, then help them to make their difficulties easier, to live with them. I think we should think until the second reading to maybe explain the article a little bit. 8 that allows a dog to enter certain public institutions. You know there's gonna be a lot of trouble. I've met a lot of parents who have said, I would take my child's dog, so I would be supportive of his treatment, but I have nowhere to go with that dog when we're a month and a half or two at a certain rehabilitation. So, for now, you can't get into that facility with a dog, the kid's tied to a dog. What might help him, here, is the obstacle of the dog being together with the child at some spa, so, at some rehabilitation, which often takes more than a month, so it might be a good thing not to have different interpretations, that you don't have to interpret a lot of you from the Ministry then what the writer wanted to say in the Law, that you might, indeed, work out a little bit more, to say exactly where and where the dog can be a helper when, therefore, in function, so to say, healing the child or any other user for whom it is simply a user, the user is bound and it's difficult for people, here I say, and to organize in some way a life where you'll leave the dog and who, at the moment you have to spend time with your child in some spa. So I'd better standard it, here, it's my suggestion to you to try to get another reading to solve it, simply, that users know where they can, but also that those who have to let the dog into their institution also know that they have to do it, that they can't oppose it. Anyway, one needs to be spread, so to speak, one general picture of how important these dogs are. The Silver Center, for example. I've raised 3 dogs, a really nice experience, it's hard to part with them, but when you know that she's going to a family where she can help someone and where they help today, here, two already kids with autism, I really think it's one good job that makes you happy, and here I am from this pay phone calling all the people who have space and maybe some of you fellow advocates who likes wishes, who like animals take that one little reaper for a year and a half to yourself that's a nice period, when the puppies, when they're the funniest, are the best, give one positive energy and in your family. So you socialize him, the team at the Silver Centre, or somewhere else they're going to educate him, they're going to make him a good helper dog, and you're going to do a good deed. Here in any case I will give support to this law and just one more request, try to better define this article that we have as little ambiguity as possible, because unfortunately we will still have to jump a lot of boundaries and explain to people that it's not me that I would say ordinary dogs, but dogs that are educated and who are really big help, and they're no burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108673	Dear colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108674	Thank you, well-respected Presidential Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues of Opačić, for saying that this law was still written in your time while you were Minister, it is true, but did not see the light of day it might have been better if you had already seen the light of the day because of those users of the blind, undersighted persons of all those with disabilities who needed this law. OK, he saw the light of day, or he'll see it this year. What I'd like to say to you is that you have a great empathy for the dogs themselves, and this problem, and I've also asked myself something about Mr. Sauch about guide dogs, therapeutic and rehabilitation dogs and how they are acceptable in public space. I think the ones on those lockers and those tags they have are actually visible and one sign that that dog can enter those spaces. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that some children, for example, are allergic in kindergartens. dogs and on that side should be kept watch over this other side. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108675	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108676	And I was just thinking that this is one law where there won't be any cracks, and I'm glad the law is here, so users are much more important than who passed the law or didn't, and as far as allergies go, look at my child when we grew up with a dog, and when we went to the first allergology test, it was allergic to cat hair and it wasn't dog. So the immunity is being achieved by her being with the dog she wasn't allergic to, and she was allergic to the cat. So much for the delusions of allergies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108677	And let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108678	E thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that this bill has seen the light of day in the first reading and by the second reading will surely be time to change certain things we heard in this debate, they are good, but I think the public will also be sensitive to this problem may offer even more acceptable suggestions for this better legal proposal. But to understand, in fact, this proposal and the matter of this law might be a good thing to say that even our entire debate from the secretary of state, the president of the assembly and colleagues and colleagues actually speak with our eyes closed or we put a bond on our eyes to know what and how blind, undersighted persons and all those who need one such therapeutic or rehabilitation dog are experiencing. So, this story of this law and everything that are actually blind and weak-sighted persons did goes back to the 1990s, so for 28 years now, when it was actually the founding assembly of the Croatian Association of Schoold Dogs Guides and Mobility and it is necessary to mention some people as Mr. Modlic or Mr. Krsnik or the respected Mira Katalenić who listens to this debate, so she is a blind person, but she can listen to this debate in which they have done very much, much to come up with certain legal proposals that in the 98th year of the regulations itself and now this law on the use of an assistant dog. So, at that time, they were already working as a group of enthusiasts on suggestions related to blind and undersighted persons, and they succeeded in doing so. So, during that time, in 98 years, the adoption of the Law itself to launch a blind person with the help of a guide dog has been made very much, and I say to this very, very rulebook at the time. It should be said that this law was then actually given public authority, so they were able to make solutions related to the user or to the blind and undersighted persons who were one, one big step. On the other hand, in the meantime, the Silver Rehabilitation Centre that we heard about today, led by counterpart Marijan Sesar, so it would be good for all those who are not representatives to visit this Silver Centre to actually get to know what this rehabilitation centre is doing and what services it provides, I say not only to blind, undersighted persons but also to persons with disabilities of children and adults. So, there's this center that's related to breeding, to specializing these training dogs, just by training that frame, by training people with visual impairment and mobility with the help of a guide dog, and by training people to use a rehabilitation dog. Both of these mentioned institutions therefore, and the very center and the association in the focus of their work have a dog and have actually provided him with everything that contributes to the users of these services of a dog who feels both pain and happiness and love, fear and comfort themselves. So, a dog who lives with a coach and a person with a disability person who has either intellectual or motor or sensory but also cognitive difficulties and thus shows love and loyalty. The center itself and the association in their breeding prefer certain breeds. We listened here today in the debate why perhaps some dogs might not be taken from the animal asylum in some other way. However, no, research has shown that Labradors and retrievers are either gold retrievers or mixing these breeds, in fact the best dogs, and they have shown the best results, through their character traits, whether they are sanguines, melancholics or corals, and their mental health have actually shown that they are the most suitable for the work of people with disabilities. So that's why, and also because of certain genetic abilities she spoke of, In fact, what happens to some other dogs, due to hip dysplasia or visual impairment, these are the most appropriate dogs. When we talk about this law, it should be said, in fact, that it aims to carry out the activities and provide assistance and support to the use of the assistant dog, to define service providers, to define the process of socialisation and education of the dog itself and to define the education of other persons, the way of funding, and I think that my colleague Saucha was talking about, that this expands the circle of legal persons actually to the entire Republic. Which is very good. This law should highlight 3 of the things mentioned in Article. 2. and I tried to say this in the replica, therefore, it is necessary to distinguish the guide dog who has been trained to actually provide services to blind and impaired persons, therefore, to bypass obstacles, to lead blind persons, to certain commands that help them, and to actually lead a person to the desired goal, then to rehabilitate dogs for difficult mobile persons or persons who are in a wheelchair, these dogs are trained very well in the center, so they recognize all that they need from opening doors, closing washing machines, I don't know how to help get in and transform into wheelchairs, etc. and a therapeutic dog that actually participates in the rehabilitation process of children with developmental difficulties and these shifts are actually visible in a sensory and cognitive communication process, as well as in a psychosocial and very important emphasis on emotional development. Now what many people don't know, and that's what they're talking about, is that long waiting lists are about those dogs, actually the way one dog gets to it. So, dog, all those dogs are going through phase three. The first stage is socialization, which lasts for 6-8 weeks and there should be commendation for all those volunteers, and also for what counterpart Opačić said, she raised 3 such dogs and should be commended, therefore, for all those volunteers who participate in this socialization of the dog. And that lasts, I say 6-8 weeks. After that, the dogs return to the center or association, and they actually go to school. Through this training, working instructors, they are actually the ones who decide why and how these dogs will be used. So, will there be guide dogs, whether they're rehabilitation dogs or therapeutic dogs? And after that, they go into foster care, i.e., to use the users of people with disabilities. In Croatia, and that should be said here in particular, there are possibilities, so-called For example, in this center of Silver and this sensory room, which actually allows some things that are not possible or much more developed countries than Croatia. So I'm sure in this part of Europe, one such rehabilitation centre with all those aids can rarely be seen anywhere. So this neurological problem or process and reaction, the dog feels very well and of course all dogs can't go through that training. So there are very few dogs that can go through this decision, and it is related to this sensory procession, organization, behavior, self-regulatory and a very important phenomenon of dyspraxia, therefore, to an immatureness in organising movement in children themselves, and it is very much helping them. As far as the law itself is concerned, I said about the article. 2. in public space, I have consulted on some other things, which your advisors have told me exist in the ministry itself which can be used and I believe that there will be some other suggestions that will help the law itself on the use of the assistant dog, precisely for those users who use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108679	We have one replica, colleague Sauch, he answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108680	Just for a moment, Mr. President, if I understand correctly, I must say, first of all, that for some reason there is a very bad sound here. But you mentioned fostering dogs from the asylum, I was thinking only about these therapeutic dogs, now I have to admit, I don't have that knowledge, which these therapeutic dogs are expected to, I know of course for these guide dogs, it's not every breed like that, my terrier would probably immediately drag me under the first car. So, not all breeds are alike, but for those therapeutic dogs, I think maybe some of them would sniff out from the asylum to be a good therapeutic dog. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108681	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108682	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague of the Sauch, when you talk about therapeutic dogs, almost every dog is a therapeutic dog. We're talking about these dogs that both the center and the association have a responsibility, so they work corners. with children, but also with adults and research has shown that these asylum dogs and others are not suitable. I'll tell you that the president of the International Organization, WHO has a dog to help a German shepherd. So, the first dogs to go back to the '90s. All three of them were German shepherds, but then they showed that they forgot to tell me that these dogs were assistants, they were with your user until about eight years ago, and then they retired. So that period of 8 years and it's a very painful experience for the users themselves and it's hard to part with these dogs. Therefore, research has shown that Labradors, retrievers and gold retrievers are the most suitable and mixing of these two breeds related to the users of these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108683	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. And with this we have concluded the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog, first reading P.Z. No. 496. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog and second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous 92 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108686	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to take a break on behalf of the HNS Club so that you have just consulted further both at the club and with your colleagues on this law. In fact, we believe that the law will bring and contribute to the improvement of foster care and the number of children who will be able to adopt it and that it is really necessary as such, but what is missing to be extremely good is to enable both life partners and formal and informal that we do not exclude them, do not discriminate and that the law is in fact legally sustainable because we believe that this discriminatory exclusion will certainly lead to issues of course that will trigger the assessment of constitutionality and, above all, to the fact that we can respond to such good law in all other things is not in force and that, in fact, the children and those who are in the home will suffer the most because we believe that the greater achievement is a child in the home than being a child in love, in the family and certainly have everything that any normal children should have. So please take another break to consult about... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108687	The apartment will be approved. Comrade Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108688	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU, I am also looking for a break for the club's session, given that it is a law that is extremely important and since we are trying to solve an important issue with it, and this is a major crisis of foster care in Croatia, it is extremely important that this law be included, not to be exclusive, not to be discriminatory. It is extremely important that we do not bring him in at first position to assess his constitutionality. We have seen how much damage has been done by stubborn insistence around some institutes, in some other laws that the Constitutional Court later declared. In matters of family functioning, in matters of human rights, in this particular case of social protection of children, it is extremely important that we do not expose ourselves to these risks and do not put all those who, under this law, could exercise certain rights, and do a lot of things that he predicts, which is an improvement of foster culture, that this is put on ice and that the whole system enters the temporary blockade. In this sense, we want to hold consultations as a club of GLAS and HSU in order to better prepare ourselves for what Minister Murganić will tell us at the beginning, explaining the institutes of this law, and we want to actively oppose this quasi to avoid listening to the opinion of the profession because there is no Croatian relevant research. They don't exist because the institute as such doesn't exist and you can't do research because foster families of same-sex partners don't exist for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108689	He approves of taking a break of course. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll be back to work in 11:30. It's 11:16 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. Respected Nada Murganic, Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108691	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. In accordance with the National Reform Programme 2018, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy required to express a draft proposal for that law. The draft law came because the state of foster care in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory because of the insufficient number of foster families and their unbalanced distribution in the area of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, it is not possible to intensify the processes of deinstitutionalisation of children from institutions of social care as well as the processes of prevention of institutionalisation. The new law aims to ensure the possibility of performing standard foster care as an occupation of unemployed foster parents and to provide specialised foster care for children as an interest in the purpose of providing children with the most difficult difficulties and the need for the highest degree of support of users of this service with the appropriate reward for, compensation for the work of the foster parent. The law would continue to allow traditional and related foster care to be carried out and compensation would be increased for the work and the efforts made to care for the users of all the foster parents and for those who carry out foster care would be paid both compensation and contributions for compulsory insurance. It is certainly necessary to distinguish the fee from the fee it receives for, obtained by a child or an adult who is fostered and it is actually a provision and is intended to meet their daily needs. This would improve the conditions for foster parents and allow this service to be provided by younger unemployed people than those who have done so so so far. More than half of the registered foster parents are over 55 years old. For the purpose of selecting a foster parent who will take an interest in each single unit of the local self-government or the city of Zagreb, the minister shall set up a commission for the selection of foster parents, as an interest in the selection of foster parents who meet the conditions for the provision of foster care and meet the needs according to the social service network. For the implementation of this law in the state budget, increased financial resources amounting to 15 million kuna have been provided. In order to achieve a higher level of quality of this service it is planned to commit foster parents to a higher degree of education. Hosts will also be provided with a higher level of support to include social care centres, social care centres, community service centres, associations and other legal and physical persons providing professional assistance services in the family, early interventions, family counselling and assistance services in the family and local communities according to a special regulation. In order to improve the implementation of the law in cooperation with UNICEF, a campaign under way and empowering foster families as well as the necessary education to all stakeholders in this activity will be carried out. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft draft law and the reasons why these differences occurred are the following. At the 8th session, the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Household Act, the bill was adopted by the conclusion of 6 July 2018 and the applicant was referred to comments, proposals and opinions in order to prepare the final draft law. The final draft of the law is in line with the proposals and remarks adopted in the debate before the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and in the debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and additionally nomotechnically improved, which has led to a change in the numbering and schedule of articles. The final draft of the law does not, in substance, deviate from the adopted draft bill except in that section relating to the principles of foster care as an essential element for the foster institution, primarily the exercise of the right and the protection of the vulnerable host group. The comments of the Legislative Committee relating to the nomotechnical supplementation of the provisions of Articles 26, 50 and 52 have been accepted and are now new articles 34, 57 and 60. The Committee on Family, Youth Sport and the Club of HDZ Representatives and the obligation to make a age difference of at least 18 years between foster parents and foster children when the child is fostered by a relative of the child referred to in Article 6, is now new Article 20. Representatives of Ines Strenja Linić, on the accommodation of a younger adult in the foster home until the completion of regular schooling or for the longest year after the completion of regular schooling if not able to be employed and up to 26 years from the art. Three, now it's a new article. Nine. It was also accepted a proposal on a different way of listing crimes for which the start of a person who wants to be a foster parent is legally condemned, as an obstacle to the exercise of foster care. 18, which had plenty of MPs in the debate, was further highlighted. The proposal for a representative, Ivan Celic, was almost fully accepted with regard to the article. 5th century, and it is a specific circle of persons who can carry out specialized foster care for children with special emphasis on assistive professions in the field of social work, psychology, educational rehabilitation, social pedagogy, logopedia, working therapy, physiotherapy and sisterhood, and now it is a new art. 16. On the other proposals and opinions given in the first reading, the applicant gave very detailed reasons why he was unable to accept the proposals, and it was the proposals of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sport and Club of the HDZ Representatives to be made in the article. The 32nd century is the 1st Point. 2, now it's a new art. 14, they add the words, according to the law, since all the grounds for termination are referred to in Article 14. The 40th Law and there is no need to state the same as, state as only one reason i.e. in the event of the death of the foster parent. Representative Mira Bulj to grant a relative as a foster parent the right to compensation for work. Representative Dragica Jeckov, to clearly define and determine sanctions and the Centre for Social Work which do not adhere to the Law in the infringement provisions. Representatives, Dr. Marija Alfirev and Dr. Strenja Linić, for a different normative solution in a way that separates foster care for children and foster care for adults in 2 Laws. Representatives of Dr Strenja Linic arranges the custody institute. Representatives of Ines Strenja and Marija Alfirev, Arsena Bauk, Goran Beus Richembergh, Bojan Glavasevic to define differently the concept of foster family. Representatives Sonja Čikotić agree that current traditional foster homes are retroactively recognising labour rights for all the years they have spent working on foster care, as well as representatives of Ljubica Lukačić that the rightful condemnation of criminal offences is an obstacle to the pursuit of foster care regardless of the occurrence of rehabilitation, the proposal to extend specialised foster care to adults with disabilities. So in this final draft of the law, you see that we have closely followed the debate, we have included part of the proposal. This Law was adopted unanimously by the Government at its session and referred it to the parliamentary procedure as the Final Proposal for the Household Act. For all the questions in the debate, I'm open. I will also repeat once again, the law is a good solution, it is aimed at the welfare of children, in the debates you all supported and highlighted in the first reading and I believe that we will all stay together in this position and adopt the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108692	To the replicas. The first one's the honorary colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108693	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Madam Minister, during the first reading of this Act, the SDP representative club invited you to propose solutions in the final Proposal for the Law that will not discriminate against a part of Croatian citizens because of their sexual orientation. I use this term on purpose because it is also a term used in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. But you did the opposite. And you have proposed a solution that discriminates against a part of the citizens who are in a life or informal life partnership. My question to you is very simple. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108694	Answer, please. So, you can respond to a replica or to any one of the MPs or MPs, or you can finally, uh, in your presentations that will follow discussions by clubs or individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108695	I would certainly like to respond to the replicator out of respect for the MP, I thought they could group replicas, and then answer all together because, uh, this question will probably be several more times or very often present. Indeed, this provision, which can be a foster parent, has been left with the existing Law and we have also run a definition of who can adopt a child in the Family Law which is still in force and which was adopted in 2015. We believe that these are very sensitive family legal areas and that just like this one of the most important family law that is in force can be in some way a guideline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108696	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague of the cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108697	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, during the debate, there was a speech that the Social Care Centres that have foster teams are burdened with taking this law, which is definitely a step forward, even more burdened by the Centre for Social Care. I wonder if you have considered the role of the Family Centers and what role would this social service play in these Family Centers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108698	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108699	Thank you very much. Yes, the Social Care Centres continue, still and now and constantly carry out all the procedures that are related to foster care. However, we also see that there is much more work to be done in the direction of strengthening human resources, I think in terms of increased social workers, organisationally creating workers, organisationally creating a special foster care team that would be in vertical and organisational change that we will have in the ministry. Of course, the new Social Care Act that we are preparing will return the family centres, one in the County or the City of Zagreb, precisely with the aim of educational, preventive, advisory work with all our user groups, and the Centres for Services in the Community, where the institutions have transformed, are still working on this support and will be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108700	Third replica, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108701	Your Honor, Madam Minister. In public, a dispute broke out between the two coalition partners over whether persons who are in a life partnership will be allowed to adopt. That argument reminds me of a two-man fight over the use of Cyrillic when they were taken in by the police and then signed with their thumbs. Because they weren't written. That's about what I'm talking about. So, both you and they know, that in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, when you put out extramarital communities and when you put singles, that the Court will always rule in favour of the fact that people in life's partnership have the right, who have extramarital communities, and therefore this argument was just a detour from the subject, a detour from the more important things that we have in society. Therefore, symbolically, you do not want to recognize the same-sex communities as the community of family life, and that is what we are discussing today on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108702	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108703	Certainly a respected representative, who's written, who's illiterate, who's signing his thumb, but now I've read the Family Law that defines and adopts, very much the same way as this Law, proposed, as a foster home. So when we talk about the European Court of Human Rights and when we talk about the Constitutional Court, we will certainly benefit you, too, from that opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108704	Let's move on. Dear colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108705	In Parliament is the place to discuss many topics, some topics simply cannot come out, I will talk about this topic through an individual debate, and now I would just say that today is the anniversary of our General Praljko's death. May General Praljak rest in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108706	A colleague, Zekanovic, each has the right to mark someone's death in his own way, but he is also responsible and shows a relationship to that death and his public action, so I think it would be a good idea to
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108707	This is my time, this is my time, and please let my time pass, this is my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108708	Comrade Zekanovic, you've finished your presentation. I would only beg you not to abuse someone's tragedy to collect political points. That's all I'd ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108709	Shame on you, Speaker of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108710	Let's move on with the replicas, dear colleague Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108711	The adoption and fostering of children is not the same, but has the same goal, providing children with a home, raising, and providing children with a future. Unfortunately, the proposed Law does not go in that direction and does not worry exclusively about the interests of children. The proposed law is politically embroiled and goes towards meeting the ideological needs of HDZ. And Minister, it's not clear to me that it's better for children to grow up in institutions than for families just because families are different. And instead of removing these ideological divisions from this Law, you have allowed the Law to be ideological and today's debate will be about the definition of family instead of discussing children. And that's what you missed, the law is bad, you've again passed a law that won't benefit anyone but HDZ to solve certain problems within itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108712	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108713	Thank you very much. You have not read the Law and you have imposed this political debate, because it is much simpler. And also this Law offers positive and good solutions for fostering children, but you, you are the one who wanted to revive your policy by imposing this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108714	Dear colleagues of the Sagittarius, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108715	As someone who is a foster parent and knows this issue well, I am saddened by what we hear and what we hear, and by imposing these ideological stories, which actually do not help children, because you should know that 174 life partnerships are concluded in Croatia, how many of them will ask to foster a child compared to 3000 and more children, who are in foster families, just think about it, and think about whether we should have thought about how slow the procedures of taking parental care are, how you will be solved by foster parents who are fostering children for decades and are now without a single day of retirement. None of that took care of anything. I don't have any problem with the same-sex partners, and I don't care to discuss it now, I said mine. But I'm sorry, and that's why I'm inviting you ministers to say that you're going to be solved by the problem of foster parents who have been foster parents for decades and today they don't have a single day of retirement, and we actually owe them what they've done for dozens of children in their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108716	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108717	Thank you. Dear MPs, yes, the question is, how are we going to solve this? Hardly. And it's impossible to solve, someone, thousands of people, backstage, 30 years or a few of them taking care of their children. That question may have been referred, here, to this opposite side of the pay phone, which she now remembered to comment on the Household Act, could have, had the opportunity to bring it exactly as they wanted. But precisely because foster parents would not continue to work probatively so as not to be volunteers because taking care of children especially children with developmental difficulties 24 in families in which other members of their families live, we pass this law, in which for difficult customers, compensation is offered to their foster parents and in which there will be some contributions as a provision for their pensions or the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108718	Comrade Richembergh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108719	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I must say, I am very surprised that by the proposal of this law you have deviated from the two fundamental principles of the HDZ. The first is the principle of the protection of the rule of law, and the second is the Christian values, including the protection of the family. In fact, you know very well that the proposal for this law has created a discrepancy in relation to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Life Partnership Act, the Law on Gender Equality and one of the constitutional principles. It is not likely for me that it went through the government at all and that there is no longer an Office of the Government for the Law and that it allows you to do so because while the flank was walking around the country and Marjan Prussian, the head of that office, it would not have occurred to anyone to send a non-compliant law to the Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, I'm surprised at our legislation committee. And as for the democratic values of the whole of Europe and the European People's Party redefine their position by encouraging people to live together, to live with children to foster them and adopt them, and you're suddenly against it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108720	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108721	I don't think there's a debate here, and I don't think you have to teach me that, that's one thing. The other principles of HDZ for these principles we are responsible and we are implementing them and we are answering our electoral body, and this question of how we missed the family law, a law that does not comply with other national laws or with the Constitution, I ask you why you did not, you were a member of the ruling coalition, why you did not discuss it when you passed the Family Law which has twice been questioned by the Constitutional Court, and yet it is, here we will see exactly how you and you have been doing that which you are now giving us lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108722	Now it's time for a respected colleague named Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108723	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, by this law, you say it is not acceptable for me, it is not acceptable for me to have a life partnership as a foster parent, as a foster parent. But by this law, you say the following are acceptable to me, all those who killed a child, all those who raped a child, all those who did harm to the child once but who were rehabilitated. And that's what you're saying with this law. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108724	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108725	Of course I don't really have anything to answer to this first part of the replica, that's how we say it, and as far as this part that you said is in line with the Rehabilitation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108726	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108727	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, why have you decided to pass a law that screams of discrimination that is completely out of line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, why are you bringing the Croatian budget and the Republic into a situation that we will have to pay compensation if someone sues her before the European Court of Human Rights? What made you decide to discriminate against persons living in a registered partnership and to prevent them from fostering children or fostering their aunts, grandmothers, relatives living under difficult living conditions that are old and you have made it possible for single homosexuals to do so? Why have you decided to discriminate only on couples living in same-sex registered communities and why you are citing the Croatian Assembly for fornication, I will say so, that it adopts a law which is multiplely discriminatory, not in line with other regulations, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and can fall or we can pay compensation for such a law before the European Court of Human Rights because we discriminate against one group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, why do you do so? Have you? You with full consciousness? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108728	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108729	So at the very least, like the ruling majority of 2015, which passed a roof and very significant law from family and legal protection, you had this particular dilemma at the time, because then and then you, and then, now we wanted to take the children's well-being first and manage ourselves in that our focus of this law is really children. All of yours is so one, one of your very vivid ways of communicating, so that wouldn't fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108730	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108731	Ministers, let's end up politically stripping what the opposition is currently trying to do. Those who criticise you today do not really want to reconcile with what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and what they also consider to be discriminatory, and that is Article 62(2). The Republic of Croatia Constitution and they cannot continue to accept it. The people voted on it, he decided, it's part of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And the attacks on you are actually a continuation or attempt by those who cannot reconcile with that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Politically what's going on is actually this, they want to update that topic again, and that's why they're attacking you. Because I cannot accept this provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Stier.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108732	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108733	Thank you for your further explanation, this is indeed politically well-detected, I am sorry and would once again ask the MPs to discuss and consider the provisions of this law which are in any case aimed at improving the fostering of our children and our adult users and that, I am obliged to respond to the replica, the relative fostering will certainly remain as it is now and is prescribed and accurately stated in the articles of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108734	Here you go, colleague Furio Radin, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108735	Article 238, falseness, probably well - meaning but false because marriage is equal to family. Marriage is one thing but not all families, all families are not based on marriage. So there are extramarital communities that are families.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108736	Thank you, colleague Furio Radin. Vice President of the Parliament, you've deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure, you've replicated, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a pure replica, and I'm going to have to give you a heads-up. ... What's this about? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] This is a list of replicas. ... Well, when someone tells me that I'm ashamed of the situation I've been in, I think it would be smarter to keep quiet than to go to someone's death to take care of the controversy and make warnings, that's the only reason I haven't responded, because I've been taking care of the situation and the context in which I've found myself, but I believe the public will judge and see what happened here and who's reacting in what way. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So let's respect both humanity and think about it. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108737	Unfortunately, I have to give a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the same article on you Because, I have delivered one opinion based on the firm facts used by my colleague Stier and which can lead to false conclusions, and I have therefore protected this House from false conclusions, or evening marriages with the family. [[President intruding: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108738	It's a fellow Radin, a replica, you can use it through a replica, through an individual debate, a debate on behalf of the club, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's your seeing some topics like your colleague Stier has the right to his view and don't do it. Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108739	Thank you, Mr. President. I will withdraw this injury because you explained that there was no injury on my part but I simply detected what the political motivation of these attacks against the minister is and is coming right from your negation of that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108740	Okay, thank you, fellow Stier. ... Don't make any decisions, so I'll give a warning and a colleague of Styre because he's replicated it, too, but I'm asking you not to do it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There are likely to be a lot of debates today, a lot of different attitudes, which are because they are worldlyly quite emotional, so don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Grmo, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108741	Dear President, Article 238, of fellow Fury Radin, is injured, so who here is hypocritical even though it is part of the ruling coalition as well as the HNS, abuse of the Rules of Procedure for some conflicts and in fact everything in the government is agreed between the HNS, HDZ and minorities, and I would pray that you do not make a circus in front of the Croatian public [[What's this?]] Give me a free warning, but I'm not gonna watch this circus. [[I'm going to give you a heads-up now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108742	Come sit down, don't yell, what a circus, I've given the man a warning after he's hurt the Rules of Procedure and I've given my colleagues to Styre, and then you report that the Rules of Procedure has been injured after I've found it. And I've given a warning twice, and now you're getting a warning. And please, we are having one debate that is important to the Croatian public, it is about foster care, an important topic, and let us protect each other and be correct towards each other. Let's move on with the replicas, dear colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108743	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's from all these replicas, about your introduction to the respected minister, almost all the replicas I haven't heard about the wish, right, they were actually talking about an interest group but they weren't talking about the right child. So no one talked about it and the Convention actually on the rights of the child, among other things, says that in making all decisions on the enforcement of procedures affecting the child or children through the group, the most important thing must be the child’s welfare, this refers to both the decisions made by the Government’s administrative or legislative bodies and the decisions made by the family. So it wasn't about the welfare of the child. Now, if I wanted to be cynical of some of my fellow opposition colleagues, then I could say that every child born in such a same-sex community actually has the right to adopt from that same-sex community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108744	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108745	Thank you. Yes, well, all the time in public space focussed on this topic on our article which defines who can be foster and very little talks about the quality of the law and what the law will do on the welfare of children, although here are older people, adults can be the subject of foster care, are also foreseen in this law, but here goes the debate on behalf of clubs, there are also individual debates, so I believe that in one larger term that will be dedicated and allowed in discussions, however, the metrics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108746	Dear colleague Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108747	Thank you very much, ma'am. Ministers, this law, have created in public and controversy whether fostering, an extra-institutional form of concern, or whether it is still an institution. My personal opinion is that this is a good law and that we will help children with developmental difficulties, including adults with disabilities, not to be placed in an institution and I think it is a form of deinstitutionalisation. And some associations of people with disabilities, so here today before this debate, tried to point out that it was certainly institutionalisation, not what was stated in this law. They forget the principle, and it seems to me that it is well mentioned, the principle of the best interest of the user. Can you tell if you're sure it's deinstitutionalisation, I don't doubt it, but here we're trying to explain to people whether it's better to live in a healthy, normal family or an institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108748	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108749	The word itself says that it is fostered and that it is a foster family, therefore, not an institution and therefore, it is certainly one of many forms of accommodation outside the institution. What. What I do know is that from the attorney general's office, people with disabilities are often warned that they don't support fostering, but they're thinking of corners. for persons with disabilities of adults and recommendations as a form of prevention of an institution or deinstitutionalisation of adults in residential communities, communities that will simply be part of a single general, social sociological mile. However, for smaller children, in general for children, it is certainly recommended to live in a family environment and these are in this case replacement homes. Although we have small living communities for children, they do look like an institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108750	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108751	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, according to data available somewhere between two and three thousand children are in the foster care system. I'm interested in the experience you have, how many of our citizens who have a registered or formal or informal life partnership, now have requests with you to be foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108753	We have information on a case. We have information on one case, one request.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108754	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108755	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, the main intensities of this law are deinstitutionalization. I'm interested, and I believe that even mates, what are projections of this deinstitutionalization over a period of, say, one year, what are the projections, so when the law comes into force, let's say for the next year. What is what you expect? What is it going to be, can you talk about the relationship between the foster parents, I mean in a numerical relationship, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108756	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108757	Thank you very much. We currently have a date on November 1st eight hundred... children who are located in our institutions, of which 554 are in children's homes and 259 children are already living in the transformed part of the institution, therefore, in small foster communities, residential communities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law certainly has some projections, and we aim to reduce 50% of foster children by exactly 3 years old. So we will focus on the smallest children and therefore we are with these provisions and fees, but also with other incentives, by encouraging measures, through this law to motivate the foster parents, to just take over their own, into their homes small children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108758	Thank you. And the last replica, dear colleague Sponza, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108759	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, abandonment and loneliness are a great pain for every man and especially for a child. If you agree with this, my question to you is, did you look at this big problem, this bill completely looked at the problem, or did you consciously let it go?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108760	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108761	I suppose what you're aiming at, although this question of yours, did I see that abandonment and loneliness is the greatest sadness and pain for everyone and for the child? I think it's so emotional to ask me a question, certainly there's no one here who won't agree. Well, of course, all the efforts carried out by the welfare system are precisely to alleviate these difficulties that children have, and one of these efforts is to exempt them from institutions where there are not so many opportunities for individual work, but to go to foster families. What you would also certainly point me to with this question, to answer you, should we then add the possibility to the same sex, informal and life partners fostering. So we only have these demands one, so focus on just one possibility of fostering in this case is really being exaggerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108762	We've reached the end of the replica, now we're going to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the word, we have two, we're just going in a row. She is the first respected colleague of Nada Turina Đuric, chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament held at its 28th session on 28 November, which means yesterday, discussed the Final Proposal of the Household Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 31 October 2018. The Committee discussed that proposal as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, she further explained the final proposal, meaning the minister, stressing that fostering it is modernising and raising to a higher level. She pointed out that although in their homes care for persons in need for a long period of years, fosterers do not have a mandatory insurance, pension, health, unemployment rights as an employee according to special regulations, as well as other accommodation service providers, nor do they provide adequate work compensation. All of these are problems that the system is struggling with daily and it is necessary to move in a legislative sense. The adoption of this law will allow foster care to be carried out as a profession and specialised foster care for the most difficult category of users, with the appropriate compensation for the work of the foster parent. The implementation of traditional and related foster care would continue to be made possible and compensation would be increased for work and efforts made to care for all foster parents. Proposers believe that the adoption of this law will ensure the prevention of the institutionalisation of children, the deinstitutionalisation of children and others who are at accommodation in institutions, the improvement of the quality of services, care in foster families independently of the user group, the increase of the number of foster families, regional equality, accessibility of foster care, the establishment of foster care as an interest in unemployed foster parents, the strengthening of capacity and the provision of better conditions for the provision of specialised foster care for children and the increase of compensation for the work of foster parents and the payment of compulsory insurance to foster parents as an interest under a special regulation. Afterwards, a debate took place involving the majority of the board members and the majority looked back and focused most on Article 9(3), discussing the need for inclusion in the definition of foster families and informal and formal life partners, which the proposings refused through the debate and through the answers to the questions of the committee members. Although a debate was held in the public as well as on the committee itself mainly on this point, it means this article, some members of the committee have expressed their view that the law itself, which was drawn up professionally, is designed to improve the status of children and adult users of foster services. It is pointed out that the foster care in which the user, meaning a child or an adult and a foster parent, is a provider of services does not have any legal relationship with each other. Namely, a foster child continues to have a biological family with which he has family and legal ties and for various reasons is excluded. After the debate, which I say mainly referred to an article that is controversial and most of us here see it from the replica of the minister disputed, after the discussion of the members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the majority of votes 7 for, 2 against and 2 abstentions supported the conclusion that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports proposed to the Croatian Assembly to pass the Household Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108764	Thank you. With us are students of crafts and technical school in Ogulin, so please welcome and welcome. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We're continuing with the committee's reporters. Next is my colleague Ines Strenja, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108765	Thank you. I welcome the chairman, the minister with associates, associates, respected colleagues. So, at its 59th session, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the final proposal of the Household Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 31 October of this year. Therefore, the Committee discussed the law in the same way as the home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Presenting the final draft law, the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy stressed that the sole objective of law-making is to establish a legal framework that will intensify the process of deinstitutionalising children from social care institutions and increase the interest in carrying out foster care. In this way, the possibility of carrying out foster care as a job for unemployed foster parents would be opened and a specialised foster care would be provided for the purpose of providing children with the most difficult difficulties and the need for the highest degree of support. The law would also improve the conditions for foster parents and allow all services to be provided by younger unemployed persons than those who have done so so far because more than half of the registered foster parents are over 55 years old. The implementation of traditional and related foster care would continue to be possible and compensation would be increased for work and effort and care for all foster parents. Compared to the differences between the first and second reading of the law, we commended the accepted solutions we proposed. Finally, the final draft of the law adopted a proposal on the accommodation of a younger adult in the foster home until the completion of regular schooling or the longest year after the completion of regular schooling if it cannot be employed and the longest to 26 years of life referred to in Article 3 as well as a proposal on a different manner of listing of criminal offences as well as obstacles to the pursuit of foster care for which a person who wishes to be a foster parent is legally sentenced. She also expressed her regret, we also expressed regret that the foster care for children and foster care for adults had not been separated, although the promoter estimated that, in order to maintain an existing form of foster care in a single regulation, with more precise normative solutions, a quality and comprehensive legal arrangement of the foster care institute was achieved. There were representatives of the Children's Quality Hostage Forum, this way I welcome them, they are watching this session very closely today, this session of ours, a forum for quality foster care gathers 2,500 members who just want a better legal framework so that they can help the children they host in a quality way, only this is their guideline, and that is why all these polemics we hear today are not in their focus. In their focus is the content of this law, and that is why I invited them yesterday to the session to once again say what they think about this bill and some of them were included in the working group for the making of the law, and they commended the adoption of a legal framework that would finally regulate this area. Therefore, in the discussion of the Quality Household Forum, the most frequently referred to were the specific conditions for conducting specialised foster care and therefore the necessary preparation, then the registry of foster parents who should finally be more accessible and up-to-date, not only at social care centres but also at the ministry level, the need to equalise compensation for fostering standard and traditional and compensation. The proposing representative explained that the differences between traditional and standard foster care were targeted and clearly referred because it cannot be allowed for a child who enters the family to be the only one who brings money into the family. Currently, if you are a traditional family, someone in the house must have some income for you to be a foster parent, not the only income that gets a child to be the income of that family. Therefore, income refers to traditional foster care for all household members, not only the householder, while the difference is when it comes to the interest of the person who will gain the status of the standard fosterer as a profession, which is therefore income and does not necessarily require other household members to have income. This is what we have specifically clarified what our foster parents need to hear today. The further discussion also referred to the comments of the Committee member referred to in Article 9(3) on the grounds that, under the notion of foster families, life, informal life partners are left out, resulting in them being limited to accessing the foster care process based on sexual orientation. In view of the fact that there are members of the Committee of Discrimination who cannot allow any legal proposal, the SDP and HNS representatives clubs have also made amendments to this Committee. Regarding the definition of the foster family, the minister pointed out that neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the Ministry question the rights of same-sex couples, which is evident in the laws that were passed this year, and were always on the verge of protecting all human rights, especially all forms of discrimination. These are questions concerning children and their well-being, family and parenting, which is all very immersed in the socio-cultural environment. There should be very careful because the law above all needs to be focused on the welfare of children with the aim of their full protection against any stress and unpleasant environment situations that are still very traditional and unprepared for different approaches. After an extensive debate, members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the Household Act for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108766	Thank you. This ended with the committee rapporteurs, and I can also open a debate on behalf of the MPs' club. So, I'm opening a debate. She is the first representative of Ines Strenja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here's a colleague of the Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108767	Thank you, once again, I welcome everyone and I would like to say that MOST of Independent Lists supports the direction of normative changes related to fostering with a focus on fostering children as the most appropriate alternative form of family care for children who cannot live in their own families. We welcome the will to finally start by improving foster status and increasing quality of care in foster families. The draft law should further enable capacity building and ensure better conditions for conducting specialised foster care for children with the most difficult difficulties. We also plan on a fosterer's commitment to a higher degree of education would achieve a higher level of quality of this service, which has so far been lagging behind. I hope that by a detailed regulation and regulation, therefore, this must not be voluntary at the level of associations, at the level of those centres or children's homes that have gone and become Community assistance institutions, which do so in some ways with their volunteerism and certain programmes they have concluded with the ministry, this must be clearly prescribed. However, it was also necessary to separate the supervisory and transportative role of the social care centre in working with foster families, introduce the concept of the case manager and define him as coordinator of all other experts and service providers in the local community. In particular, we consider it important to introduce an obligation on the part of the head of the case to coordinate and organise the simultaneous intensive work and professional support of the child's biological family in order to create conditions for the child's return to the family or, if this is not possible, to intensify the procedures for taking parental care in order to implement a permanent solution in the best interests of the child through adoption. So our problem is to take away parental care of parents who can't abuse a child and who can't care anymore, and that biological family can achieve the capacity to get that child back. This must be accelerated, must be seen at which stage the child must be monitored and then that child should be adopted if he cannot return to his biological family. That's the real problem. There's thousands of kids. We listen to yesterday night, I have to go back to it, to the Open, one of the representatives who thus advocates a certain attitude, claims that thousands of children are waiting for accommodation in children's homes, that's a lie. So you currently have 850 children in children's homes and it's far too much. We have more children's homes, I said, than we have in Germany or what we have, we're getting closer to how children are placed in institutions in Romania. So, it's not waiting for thousands of children in homes, we've emptied our homes. Many of these homes today are institutions that provide care in the community. You have a home that was first transformed, home Source in Selci, last week has been 100 years since it existed, a 100-year-old children's home of the Selce, which is the first institution that has completely transformed, with a top man who led it, Nikica Sechen, who started talking about how each child needs to be solved status, followed it, and every child today has arrived either in our family or returned to his biological family and today only come to this Centre for support in learning and monitoring and support of all those who need that child so that he can continue to live in his biological family with the support of the community. That's the problem. So fast enough to resolve that child's status in relation to the judiciary. So, I am glad that you have partly respected some of the remarks that we have made during reading this Law, which is an obstacle to the pursuit of foster care because it was necessary to point out that foster care for children cannot be carried out by a person who has been legally sentenced to prison for any act committed to harming a child or using a child or a minor regardless of whether rehab has taken place. That's what you're picking up now. I'm sorry. Today I heard a different remark, not only that those who have been convicted by power, but also those against whom the proceedings were initiated from that domain of these crimes were now said in the article. It also means, for a person who has a criminal record, it means not only a criminal, but a criminal application for domestic violence, and against which criminal proceedings are being conducted, and not just by persons who are being punished by law, as I said. The law should provide for other than the keeping of the register of foster parents and systematic data on children, again with the aim and monitoring of the status and circumstances of each individual child and the taking of appropriate and timely interventions to ensure the permanent accommodation of the child in family care in accordance with his or her best interests. Currently, the registers are run by each individual Center, some of the better quality, some not, which also led to the complete inequality of providing foster services to children on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So that's the same problem, unequal care, so foster parents don't have the same support for every welfare center. So we're not users of social welfare with the children we've fostered. We are the partners of the Centres for Social Care, so that this child would not be in the institution, but would be in our families, and that means, if this child has the right to receive 1,000,00 kn one-time help to leave, if the users of social care have the right to 1,000,00 kn one-time assistance, that means that this child who is fostered has the right to go on a trip or have some other extraordinary cost, gain, and not depend on the social worker and his good will, as if you are coming to pray to yourself for some kind of social assistance because it is helping that child. I welcome that the abandoned is mandatory, it was my proposal, therefore, a mandatory age difference of at least 18 years between the foster child and the foster child because it should be a difference of at least 18 years if you adopt the child. But we had a situation with brothers and sisters who then could not, if the difference was less than 18 years old, be foster parents of their younger brother or sister, and that made it impossible, so even for those related families and that was finally changed. Householding, then, as long-term accommodation is not in line with the child’s well-being and interests, especially if it is a child under the age of 7 years. So, in policymaking, there is an immensely significant holistic approach to developing and improving alternative child care. It is therefore necessary to develop the conditions in parallel and to return the child to a biological family or to adopt it as quickly as possible. Here I have to point out once again, the longevity of court proceedings, delaying and permissive approach to biological parents who are long-term and rudely neglecting and abuse a child, and the child remains blocked in the system, and has been placed in foster care or in a home for years. I'm sorry the media isn't paying enough attention to this. This is what we need to talk about. So, how long has this child been blocked out there, while parental care is being taken away, that this child can finally find quality accommodation and be adopted, and we are talking about how little adoptions are in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, opportunities for the permanent provision of a child’s right to live in a family or adoption are missed. In addition, it is generally known that a child who welcomes adulthood in a foster family or in a home, in too many cases, does not have any perspective and living conditions for a independent life after leaving care. One of my proposals to the state budget will be that, except that Caritas built a home for children without parental care coming to study in Zagreb, that such an institution, or a building for the housing of these children, is built in Split, Zagreb and Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, so that these children, after leaving the foster family, can go to study and have permanent accommodation. At the same time, according to biological parents, adequate measures have not been taken in due time to deprive parents of parental care, so the child, not only cannot return to his biological family, but may continue to abuse the child at his adult age by biological parents. That child at the age of 18 may be in a position to inherit the debts of her parents. I have such a case in the Primorian Mountain County where the 18-year-old boy came into a situation that all those debts his parents had inherited and had to be dealt with, indeed, in a few years, with a lawyer, so that this child at the beginning of his young life would not be owed more than 500,000.00 kn. We therefore propose that foster care for children is also defined as temporary accommodation, which will contribute to the dynamicization of the system and measures to protect the rights and welfare of children, and that is why I have already said this, to separate the legal solution for fostering children as temporary accommodation which is something completely different from fostering older people. Elderly people go home to their families, go to permanent accommodations, live-in accommodations, are severely ill, do not have their families most often, and go there with someone’s care for the rest of their lives. Indication is only temporary accommodation and as such and all that carries the fostering of children as a special story, this law should at least be divided into two parts, if not adopted as special laws. So, I'm sorry what we said besides how much it means right now that we have 3049 foster families, 1492 foster families for children and young people, currently means she's still in the homes of 864 children, we don't know how many children are located in homes to raise children and youth with behavioral problems and how much in children with developmental disabilities. How many children from 0 to 7 years old are in homes for children without adequate parental care, as in homes for children with developmental disabilities, means 0 to 7. I wonder if an analysis of the overall needs for foster care has been carried out in certain areas of the county. In fact, we had a completely different picture, a completely different picture was said that there were no foster parents in Split, I was in contact last night, representatives of the host association, have over 50 foster families in Split County, which is good, it is a good shift because it is constantly said that there are not enough foster parents in Croatia in the coastal Croatia. So, it is necessary to see what needs are for foster care in certain areas, to throw the biggest focus on it because it is best if the child is singled out from one biological family to a foster family, it is best to keep the child in the area of that county, this area of Croatia where he can actually have contact with some of his relatives, if the different families are located even with his brothers, even though they are trying to be all children, even if it was three, four children, in the same foster family or tradition, and all of what is carried by a particular territory of Croatia, it is not good that there are no foster parents on the island of Krk, and then that child is taken to Đurđevac, for example, there is a great association, so I welcome the team from Đurdjevac, very good foster parents and it is not good. So this child should still remain at least in the area of the county, we do not have an accurate estimate of how much in the areas of certain Croatia what the situation is now further so that we can plan to develop a particular type of foster care and projection of certain financial resources. So, once again, I would like to point out that it was better to adopt the Social Care Act first, redefine and refresh social services, relieve social care centres from administrative procedures. Currently they do, social workers have 140 powers to perform at their workplace, enable them to deal with professional affairs and case-keeping and to encourage the transformation of institutions into community social services centres. In this way, systematic preconditions would be created for professional support to foster care, a lack which, according to our experience, is a major obstacle to the expansion of foster care, a drop in number of foster parents and an improvement in the quality of care for consumers. So there is no equal support for all foster parents and it is not the same in all parts of Croatia, so you have a foster parent, yesterday a lady who says she had to go on a field trip, a child like that, his mother who is an addict on alcohol, has to give permission that the child can go on a trip and when she comes to the CZSS, the social worker told you to leave and find her to sign you. That kid has to go on a field trip. So we haven't solved the same custody problem, I've already talked about it, of course, it's said that it should be through other laws, too, but I think the foster parent is the one who cares 24 hours, 365 days a year, and can't come into the situation that the child can't be taken to vaccination because for that he has to have permission from parents who were absolutely dysfunctional, the child already couldn't continue living with him. The most significant problems facing foster parents in foster care are as stated, therefore, the lack of information among citizens in foster care and the difference in adoption. Very often these days, we see that people in general are starting to talk in the media, so just some special cases of child adoption, which is adoption, which is adoption. Hostage is temporary accommodation of children who could not continue their quality of life and development in a family that is dysfunctional and it is temporary until the conditions are created to return to that biological family, to strengthen the family or, if not possible, permanently after that, take away parental care and accommodation or adoption. So a child who has grandparents, who has parents who are seriously ill, who has an old grandparents, who has some kind of life story, who has his own background, of course that child will be permanently fostered because that child has a last name, has his mother who is seriously ill, has a grandmother who is in a nursing home but this child has something to do with that history of his family. And such a child will be fostered. A adopted child gets a new identity, a new OIB, goes completely like to overwrite their entire past, goes into a new family and goes away and goes away. in the complete creation of some new connections [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] What makes these two concepts completely different and should be distinguished [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'll continue in each individual, thank you. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108768	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the clubs, the next colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108769	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us today is the Final Proposal of the Household Act whose purpose is to provide care and support to the user of a potential, positive environment in accordance with its individual change plan. The law goes in the direction of modernising this form of care and is aimed at improving the conditions of fostering children and adults. Although foster care in the Republic of Croatia has been a long tradition since 1902, the legal status of foster parents has not been resolved so far. According to the 2006 statistical report, there are 2342 users in foster families for children and youth and 4459 users in foster families for adults and older people. At the same time, 864 children were located in a foster home for children and young children, of which 505 foster families have family status and 1557 foster families for adults and elderly persons, of whom 220 have the status of foster parents. According to data from two days ago, the number of foster families for children is 1427, the number of children in foster families is 2151, an additional 1481 foster families providing accommodation services and daily care for adults, resulting in a total of 2908 foster families. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, in accordance with the National Reform Programme 2017 and 2018, has committed itself to drawing up a draft of the Household Act that we are discussing today in the second reading. The creation of this Law was approached for the reason that there is still insufficient number of foster families and their unbalanced spread in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In some areas of foster families there is no or negligible number at all, while on the other hand, in some areas such as Zagrebačka, Varazdinska and Međimurje County, the number of foster families is more important than the needs of children from that area, which is why accommodation and children from the other side of the country, leading not only to difficult adjustment, but also to make it difficult to maintain a relationship with biological families and relatives because the parents of the fostered children are most often not deprived of parental care. It is therefore necessary to improve, strengthen foster care in the entire country, as this Law provides. Also, the problem is the age group of adopters as well as the degree of education. In fact, more than half of the registered foster parents are over 55 years old, and almost 30% of the foster parents have completed primary education or have no primary school at all. Families of a younger age, higher education, as potential foster parents are in constant decline. The status of foster parents is not attractive and motivated by new, younger, more educated foster parents for several reasons. Despite the fact that in their homes care for persons in need for a long period of years, foster parents do not have settled pension and health insurance, they do not have the right during unemployment as employees according to special regulations. Then, they have no resolved insurance like other social service providers, accommodations, or adequate work compensation. The adoption of a new Household Act will ensure the deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are staying in the Institutions, and improve the quality of service care in foster families independently of the host group. The new Law opens up the possibility of carrying out foster care as an occupation of unemployed foster parents and provides specialised foster care as an interest in providing children with the most difficult difficulties and the need for the highest level of support of users of this service with the appropriate compensation for the work of foster parents. The implementation of traditional and related foster care would continue to exist, but there would be an increase in work and efforts to care for all fosterers, and for those who carry out foster care would be paid compensation and contributions for compulsory insurance. Thus, the adoption of this Act will ensure the prevention of the institutionalisation of children and adults, then deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are in the institution, improvement of quality of service care in foster families regardless of the user group. There will be an increase in the number of foster families, regional equality with regard to the accessibility of foster care, foster care will be established as an interest in unemployed foster parents, better conditions for the provision of specialised foster care will be ensured, foster parents will be committed to higher levels of education, foster parents will be provided and greater levels of support will be provided to social care centres, social care centres, community services centres, associations, religious communities, other legal and physical persons providing services of professional assistance in the family. In order to enable all of this to be made possible and in order to obtain more users in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, larger financial resources have been provided compared to the previous period and by 2 million kuna. As a compensation for accommodation services with foster parents in 2018, funds amounting to 183 million kuna have been provided and the same amount is secured for 2019 and 2020. The implementation of this Act will allow for 300 to 400 unemployed foster parents to carry out foster care, to have an increased remuneration for working in the amount of 2,500 kuna and paid contributions. The same amount of compensation will be provided for traditional foster parents when fostering three children or four adults. By increasing the fee, it will increase in proportion to the number of domestic users. In order to carry out specialised foster care as a profession, it is planned to include a smaller number of service providers for the most difficult user group of children who will be provided with an increased work fee of between 5000 and 6500 kuna. In 2018, funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 45 million 500 000, the same amount was secured for 2019 and 2020, which is an increase of 15.5 million kuna compared to the previous period. Although love and care for children do not have the price, by regulating their rights, the foster parents would also get the security they deserve. The current foster care in Croatia is traditional, the foster parents receive compensation for the cost of children, 1800 kuna for preschool children since 2011 and 400 kuna compensation for themselves, but do not receive salaries or have been paid contributions so far. Many, therefore, when they turn 65, stop being foster parents, have no income at all, and in my debate, in my first debate that I had, I repeat. We've got a woman who's fostered 45 children in the end, living on her own for welfare. I've recently met a lady who is a foster parent who, with her five biological children, has been fostering her foster parents for 10 years now with her husband for three children and, as an unemployed person, this professionalization would mean a lot to her if she gained employment rights. This example is just one of the many that needs to be regulated. What has changed since the first reading, and what I welcome, is that there is no age difference between a foster parent and a foster child when the child is fostered by a relative, then there is a specific circle of people who can carry out specialized foster care, the accommodation of a younger adult can be one year after schooling, and if it cannot be employed then for up to 26 years. By passing this law, we expect an increased interest in fostering foster care and that this will result in a series of positive effects that will also reflect the whole picture on the issue of foster care. It is indisputable that the proposal of this law is quality and good for children for their personal growth and development, and I am sure that this law will create quality preconditions and that many children will find their home. The HDZ advocates' club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108770	Thank you. We're going to continue the debate of the Advocacy Club. Next on behalf of National Minority Representatives Club, fellow Furio Radin. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the Final Proposal for the Household Act has its virtues, and these qualities were spoken by Minister Murganic and Mrs. Masimchuk, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. This normative act among other things regulates fostering, defines essential concepts, controls the course of foster care and determines some also important economic parameters. Even taboo is used by the concept of a generation from which some hair is raised on their heads, of course, that concept of gender as well as in the Istanbul Convention marks male and female. The National Minorities Club, however, or at least one part of his club because they won't all vote the same way, and not everyone and not everyone thinks the same way, we've left freedom. The National Minorities Club, however, and I belong to the part that is critical of this law, finds that one part of the population that is legally and legally recognised in potential foster parents is discriminated against and, as I will later show legitimately, is able to be equal with other foster parents who are also recognised by the law in fostering children. These are marriage and extramarital communities and individuals, or single foster parents, so they are recognized. With them, however, they are not equal to life or informal life partners or to be clear about those extramarital communities that are made up of persons or of the same kind or if you want the same sex. I will now take the opportunity and explain more, I will define even better what I have been having a little debate with my friend Stier before, but with which and with which attitude Minister Murganić agreed. If we were to identify marriage and family, then single mothers would not represent family, single mothers who had never been married would be even less family, and in the end it would be all down to that age from my childhood when such mothers were called the ugliest names just because they were not considered families, which are families, such as divorced mothers, divorced fathers with a child's family. So family and marriage are not the same thing and I will say to Mrs Murganic that there is nothing, none of what I am about to say, none of what is drawn up in the amendments of other parties of the HNS, SDP, etc. It is not unconstitutional, nothing is unconstitutional because family and marriage are not the same concepts, are different concepts. I'm going to try to stick to the fact now because as a psychologist, we have opportunities, since I'm quite old and 40 years old, I read about how it affects the education of homosexual couples, communities or families, how it affects children, because it's just over 40 years old, 42 years old, in 1975 the first research was published in 1975, so this research takes less than research, for example. I don't know, tuberculosis, but I'm sure it takes years to study bulimia, anorexia and other diseases, others, in this case of disease, we'll say the problems because here, of course, you're not talking about diseases. When observing the welfare of children or children who are adopted or adopted, these studies are done, I must do so in... the most adopted, adopted children, which is an even more radical form than a foster home. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Adams and Leit in 2015 reviewed all the research in this area and found that there was no difference between the welfare of the child, in his happiness, in his sexual orientation, between the well-being of children and his happiness, so to speak, raised from heterosexual and homosexual couples, and also certainly refers to, as we will see later, when I will give you the opinion of the association, the American Association of Psychologists, this can also apply to foster children. Of course, there are those who dispute such research. There are exactly four psychologists who dispute such research and all four psychologists belong to the circles of different churches. These psychologists, they were all, in fact, denied by the academic community, and the one who was perhaps the most angry at it, I don't know if I'm going to exactly pronounce his name Regnerus in 2012, he also withdrew his research and admitted that it was actually about, they criticized research, where it was actually about his mistake. So, the academic community has actually expressed such opinions and found that homosexual couples do not act negatively, and in some studies it is even said that they act extremely positive, but I say they do not act negatively, they also act positively to raise adopted or adopted children. Thus, the American Psychological Association, the world's largest association of psychologists, said in its own time, the APA opposes any discrimination based on sexual orientation regarding adoption, preservation, fostering and reproductive health of children. APA believes that children who are raised from the same sex couples must have the same legal treatment as children of heterosexual couples and synthesizing the American Association of Psychologists encourages psychologists in their efforts and activities that are directed against such indoctrination and discrimination which this Law, the Bill, unfortunately, in that part, which is fundamental to me or at least very important, discriminates against, such discrimination. The official views similar to this, is that, the APA, the American Psychological Association, have the American Psychological Association, the American Pediatric Academy, the Australian Psychological Association, the Australian Medical Association, and these are only the most famous and many others are in it, agreeing with that opinion. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2008 that where an individual is allowed to marry and is not married by definition, if he is an individual, is that, where he is, to adopt a child, and this Law allows it, he must be allowed to do so independently of his sexual orientation. So we're in front of an absurdity that an individual can be homosexual, but a couple can't. And that was quite incomprehensible to them, too, so they later, in one case, were an Austrian citizen who was paired with another Austrian citizen who had a child, they admitted that she had the right to parenting, so she was creating a family of two moms, so to speak. And now I'm going to tell you this, when I was young, ma'am, when I was young, I was fostering kids over the weekend, I was going to Nazrov, I was a psychologist, so I knew, they didn't ask for anything, no special qualifications at the time because I had qualifications, I was married, I had two kids, two girls, and I'd been in a home for years, we were fostering children. Anyone who gets into a situation like this, now I don't know how it works, but when I did, I was always going around, my brother and sister were from Zagory if I went in there, then I'd be running towards at least 30 kids with my hands up and they'd say, "Take me, take me." To explain to you that this topic is me and how at heart and that I'm telling you that, except that there's no difference when it comes to fostering between heterosexual and homosexual couples or individuals, everything, and there's no such thing, and there's no such thing as all these research, it's all better than what can be seen in such, let's call them with the right name, the orphanages. Thank you. The National Minorities Club will vote depending on its own, each depending on its opinion and, as it is said in feminism, on its conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108772	Thank you. We're continuing with the Advocacy Club. The next is a colleague of Tulio Demetlika, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, on the final proposal of the Household Act. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108774	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The IDS and PGS Club welcomes the adoption of a new Household Act. How much can we read with the new regulation would improve the quality of care services in institutions, as well as in foster families. As we speak of foster care, I believe that we will all agree, that this is a matter that needs to be given full attention. Householding enables the host to live in an environment that provides protection, care, support, love, care. But unfortunately, today, we have too many nos. children without proper care, care, attention, love. And we all know how important it is for children of the most vulnerable age to have adequate and satisfying care. In addition to them, we must mention adults who need foster care. Such individuals also need satisfying care. Since, for certain reasons, the most common health care cannot be taken care of. When we talk about a foster family, we must say that it is a family that has decided by its own free will to take care of the warmth of its home for legal reasons from a biological family. I believe that there is no need to explain why it is important for such children to be in a family environment without adequate parental care, to feel loved and accepted, because it is essential for their long-term and psychological and physical development. We positively assess that the new law gives the possibility to carry out foster care as a profession for unemployed foster parents, and to provide specialised foster care, as an interest in providing children with developmental difficulties and behavioral problems. This law and its implementation must aim to benefit users from foster care. We therefore welcome that this law enables higher levels of education, as well as support for fosterers. Since we are talking about an unprotected category of persons, effective mechanisms should be provided to prevent possible abuse of foster care. I will note, in the context of this topic, that only two things are important, that all the necessary conditions are met for someone to become a foster parent, and regular supervision of experts. So regular control of such families is crucial. And therefore, when these conditions are met, we at our club are against any form of discrimination, as well as any other issues, and in foster care, and we are guided by the principle of equality. I really don't know, who here can say that housing in the home is a better solution than fostering, fostering is compared to accommodation in an institution, certainly more natural and more humane form of care. What grieves me most is that instead of focusing on these laws, and our discussions, they are exclusively persons who need to be fostered and the conditions of their adoption, this has turned back into politicizing, which is aimed at collecting cheap political points. I think the only thing that matters is that our children are in first place, not because of their own political beliefs, and even prejudice, we leave these children home and street. From the ranks of the ruling, we've heard it's a matter of light. Dear colleagues, the issue of human rights and the equality of all before the law, must not be a question of worldview and one's belief. The lighthouse shall not be an excuse for discrimination on any basis. I'm going to ask one question now that we all have to imagine. If the profession, meaning experts, who have been trained and trained to do so, have estimated that based on analysis and expert assessments, someone is capable of being a foster parent, whether I or any of us here have the right to say otherwise, based on my own beliefs. And instead of distracting us, to strengthen the welfare centers, to relieve them of administrative affairs, not to cramp in papers, to spend more time on the ground and to exercise control in foster families, it turns out that you limit the number of foster families, and the aim of the law was to increase. I will also look back at younger adults, who, when they turn 18 and want to study for example, remain on their own and can then organise various humanitarian actions, in order to enable these people to study instead of getting rid of it legally. So let us make sure that we provide them with a decent life, not that their future depends on donations and humanitarian actions. In the end, I call on all of us to primarily lead ourselves to the interests of children when we vote this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108775	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of SDP representative Davor Bernardić, please welcome colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108776	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished minister with the co-workers. What should be said at first, that children without adequate parental care, especially those under the age of 7 are members of our society to whom the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to help, because there is no one to help them and it is our obligation to help them in the best possible way. It is therefore necessary to extend the possibility of fostering them rather than limiting them. And we should adopt just because, which will help as many children as parents can't care about. I'll remind you that in children's homes, without proper parental care, there are more than 1100 young people living today, more than ever. Because in their cases, it has failed what the ruling majority in this House believes. She set up a traditional family, their mothers and fathers set them up. And a child without adequate parental care, under the age of 7 under the Social Care Act, should not live in children’s homes at all. The institution of our country, if we want to respect the law and provide children with life in the foster home, is unfortunately less and less, the fall is drastic and the children have nowhere to go. We legally decided to place them in foster homes for their benefit and therefore reduce the number of homes for them. Dear Minister Murganic, you've put the children on hold. Where are they waiting? In their dysfunctional families, they wait where they should be moved for their own good. I'm afraid you've left your colleagues and colleagues where you think they shouldn't be. Because of the lack of education, misunderstandings and individual limitations and perhaps most of us here today listen and we will listen to this topic of arguments on the preservation and protection of traditional families. And most kids who live in institutions today because their families are not functional just come from these traditional families, those families that we're going to listen to here because they're made up of mother and father are the only healthy environment for a child. Unfortunately, every day social care centers exempt children from such environments, and unfortunately they often have no place to stay. They're children. I'll repeat, Minister Murganic, on hold. The new law will make specialised foster parents a fee that will be at the level of average salary, but it is hard to expect that only because of the fees of university educated people in large numbers will opt for a special foster parent, the interest of a special foster parent. It's simply not an interest you choose for money, or just for money, you have to want to foster children and have a lot of love for those children. Very often it is children with traumas or children with developmental difficulties, abandoned children, from dysfunctional families whose foster parents are not labour forces engaged in money but are precisely their family, crucial to their rehabilitation. Traditional foster parents in Croatia are too heavy for us older people, because people in the middle age are increasingly turning to care for older and powerless abroad, of course. Why? Because they earn more, and young people have no interest in fostering, unfortunately, young people have an interest in evicting from Croatia. And that's defeating. More money for foster parents is certainly a decision to praise, but to whom will the minister give that money, that is the question. In a country where the number of foster parents falls, the number of places in a home for children in homes is reduced, we should allow a much larger number of people to foster children rather than limit that group. In particular, we must not restrict it by discrimination on a gender basis. And my question to you, you'll discriminate over fostering same-sex couples, why? Because you are very concerned about children, so I will remind you that the European Court of Human Rights has for years passed judgments that allow the right to foster equal couples, because, as they say, human rights must be the same for all. If we make it impossible for couples to host children with the same sex, we have discriminated against one group of people on a gender basis, and all the scientific research conducted at EU level shows that the future of children in need of foster care does not depend on whether they grow up in a traditional or same-sex family, depends only on a stable family and a harmonious and warm relationship within that family. The Croatian Chamber of Social Workers has already called on the state to pass better laws and take into account relevant health, scientific research. They show that children from a family with same sex parents are no different from children with heterosexual parents, neither in cognitive, nor in social, emotional development, nor in adopting roles, gender identity, nor in their sexual preferences. So, my question to you, what are you afraid of? If you are afraid that children can grow up in same - sex families to learn what love, tolerance, and acceptance of diversity are, are you afraid that they might grow up to be better people, people who do not accept a reverse. According to you and your proposal for a new Household Act, the parliamentary majority of Prime Minister Plenkovic intends to discriminate against same-sex couples, directly at the expense of children under the age of 7 who do not have adequate parental care, either by voting for the law or by refraining from voting and by maintaining quorum, as some members of the ruling coalition have announced today. So you will be discriminating without any basis and without anyone else using same-sex couples in Croatia. Once again, like a thousand times so far, you will deny one minority in society their human right. This time he's entitled to a child's foster home. If we do not work to reduce homophobia, to bring down prejudice, if we do not commit ourselves to campaigns that will help society to accept same-sex families, we will create a fertile ground for misunderstanding, discrimination, Stigmatization and new trauma in the future. You say, we'll make changes when the time comes when it matures, it'll never mature unless we bring in the changes to the good and positive ones. The SDP has always advocated and will advocate for a system that is non-discriminatory and that will ensure the protection of every man's rights, and I ask you, as legislators of this law, when you will finally put children first, when you will stop dividing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia into first and second-row citizens, when you will surmise clerical imprisonment and open to the progressive and changes that have occurred in the world long ago. This law is exactly the opportunity to step forward as a society, but you would persist in place or return if possible until the Middle Ages. I call on all representatives of parliamentary parties here today in the Assembly and those who do not participate in the debate to make it clear whether they support whether the same sex couples can foster and adopt children, Prime Minister Plenkovic's invitation to make it clear whether they support it with YES or NO. ... We sent the law into the procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I call on Live Wall, I call on all other parliamentary parties of the Republic of Croatia, the public is interested in their position, there is no hiding, for the end, Minister, I would like to propose to Minister Murganić to enter into the role of partner in the same sex community for one day, perhaps to discover that in this family she would be an excellent mother or father, however, because thousands of mothers today in the Republic of Croatia in raising their children take on fatherly roles, and thousands of fathers today in raising their children take on motherly roles and we all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108777	We thank Representative Bernardic. Now intervention on behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108778	Thank you. There have been several debates on behalf of clubs that I would now like to look back on with the goal of perhaps clearing things up right now. In fact, the role and the opposition of the Centre for Social Care has been highlighted by this Law, and the Social Care Act is what we really intend to do. A question that also stretches all the time whether we care for children who have been under our care and turned 18, yes, until the 26th year they can stay or have a foster home. It is also impulsed to collect humanitarian actions for children leaving institutions, certainly, yes, there are many in the public space of humanitarian actions, however, children who want to study, scholarships, and also have other support. We also provide for a new law to extend these rights. I have never said that this law is proposed in this way through a world-wide issue and the law is really aimed at the welfare of children and I think that all these imputations that refer to that we are limiting, the question is whether we forbid fostering a child until the age of 7, it is explicitly pointed out that there are 1100 children in homes, there are no, we have 813 children, it stands out, it was also in the Open, I guess it's the same handwriting, that on waiting I don't know how many children, which isn't true, children don't wait for us, children when they're separated from non-functional families, right now they're stationed and the same foster care still works. In the future, however, we want to alert him and fix him. So, you are not waiting for accommodation in the institution and institutions, as you are now also represented by Strenja in her presentation explicitly stressed that this is not true and that even our homes for children are empty and that there are empty accommodation facilities. Your question to whom the minister will give the money, and on the other hand, you confirm that it is a good suggestion to pay for foster care. So the funds are intended for foster parents. The point is that children are taken into foster care for love, of course those foster parents should have a certain empathy and love with children. These loves are later so connected that both growing up and going children and starting their own families, these children are in warm, emotional relations with their foster parents, but on the other hand, you get all together as critics in college when you call us what we're going to do for those foster parents who have been with minimum benefits for years, and without contributions, spent working as very useful members of society or as social partners, so it was very often asked whether they were also used for their child supplies, which certainly wasn't true, but we don't want that to come into question, so all of these twisted topics are certainly one malicious certainly criticism, which is not based on any accurate data. And what I'm trying to say is, neither the government nor I nor the Ministry at which I'm headed, in no way wants to challenge anyone's rights, we're very much in favour of the Council of Europe Convention, which you're not. You now respect us that we have not put potential foster parents in the same sex or life, and neither are you for the same reasons because you said at the time that this is not a psychological aspect, that it is necessary to respect the sociological aspect and that all these researches are not conducted in our socio-cultural mile.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108779	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit, first colleague Sabina Vosovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108780	Well, Minister, that's how it's married and that's how it is in HDZ, isn't it? When you stop living in the past and come at this moment, learn the fact that you cannot talk about the welfare of children in such a way. Who gives you the right to evaluate and assess the welfare of children? The benefit of children is to be taken care of, to have a familyly, warm environment full of love, not to be in homes. Are you the one who will estimate that it's just a heterosexual community that provides love, warmth and a peaceful home? No, you're not a minister, you're not a god and you're not a goddess and you have no right to claim it. Stop doing that. Today you talk about the welfare of children, the well-being of children is to be fostered and taken care of, and you are the ones who rightly allow it with the right of singles homosexuals, and you have something against gay couples, which hurts who you love.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108781	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, here you go, Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108782	I don't want to retaliate with this tone because I respect this House, I respect every person, I respect the one who has the need to insult me at this level, he probably doesn't know how, in which way he'd be more convincing, but it's his own choice. And the way you address me with the question of who gives me the right, I am neither God nor Christmas. I am entitled to come from my duties, and the Law has been working, all the bodies have passed, the Committees have passed the first reading, it's been twice in the Government, so I don't share the rights, I'm just passing on what we've all found in some way, we agree and make a proposal, and on the other hand, how you think you can just determine and that your position is right, you who are fighting for respect for other people's opinions and attitudes You're very aggressive. [[Intruder: Thank you]] when someone is expressing different attitudes. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108783	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Gordan Maras, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108784	Thank you very much. We are not aggressive, but we are rid of when it comes to defending human rights and defending children's rights. I cheered up Madam Minister when I saw you this summer, we were in action together, every child deserves a home, in the organization of UNICEF, you took a picture there, so they took you for a day, I saw it, but it's not a game, it's not a pyr, action, it's a life, and you have no right to limit every child's ability to get a home, and you do this law part of it and you work. And on that side, Madam Minister, try to understand that no one personally attacks you, but attacks the principle that someone takes someone else's right, and when it comes to children, that's where we all have to stand together. And if you're already worried about who would do what in which position, give us the opportunity to vote on our amendment, so you'll see what we're proposing and how we suggest and then you'll see what the SDP is for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108785	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108786	So, as for the amendment, you will vote it or you will not, and thank God, I cannot forbid it, so the MPs will vote on the proposed amendments, and you have the right to do so, nor do I take it away from you. And if you respect me, even this sociohumanitarian or professional work, you know, I'm 38 years old, before I got on political duty working in a welfare system. You probably assume that I know what I'm saying if you think a social worker with so much work experience doesn't know what he's saying, then to that one, and about this problem, then in that way you're probably reacting to the right of all experts and social care to do this job of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108787	Thank you. We continue to present on behalf of the club of representatives. The next colleague, Branko Hrg, is on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSB club, please welcome colleague Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108788	After your argument, I don't think so. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So listening to all these days of public debates about this Law and listening here today can really make it unclear for a listener on the side whether we are discussing the same sexual unions or discussing the need to care and help children and persons who need this help to get their warm corner to get a roof over their heads, to get someone who can help them, who can give them a hand, who can help when it comes to children, lead them through life. And I think that this law is going in the right direction and that it is in fact in line with the will of Croatian citizens and none of us here are more discussing and thinking, certainly not immune to the overall debate that comes down, so whether and who can foster children, but not only children, but also adults who need help. Conscious of the fact that this is really a major problem in the Republic of Croatia, that people are really even more alienated today than they are before each other, that in principle no one will worry about anyone in a way that they take over constant care and commitment for them even though Croatian citizens in humanitarian activities are extremely sensitive and extremely active when they need help, but when, of course, they need to take some continuous form of care, surely that people in that time in which we live, very rarely and very hard to make such decisions to accept such a job. And that's why there are people who are foster parents, which is why there are people who have found them, of course, and some of their own interests, but the facts are that most of these people definitely couldn't do that job if they didn't have a simple, built-in desire to help others. There are probably those who go to do this out of purely economic interest, that's for sure, but that's why there are institutions that need to control it, so there are welfare centres that are ultimately the most important role in determining and those that can be fosterers, but also those who will be fostered. What I would like here to ask the Minister and the Ministry that definitely need to increase control when the fosterer gets special children at the foster home that the Social Care Centres must be teamly unannounced and present on the ground at all times. Because he's got all kinds of disturbances on the ground. There have been cases of maltene people redecorating the garage, showing the house in which they would be housed, where children would live, eventually these children ended up in some customized spaces that were not worthy of living conditions and were not allowed to basically tell them where and how they lived. There's a situation like that. But it's all unfortunately present in society and no one is, no society is immune to such situations. And that is why it is very important for social care centres to be strengthened and humanely strengthened to go to as many foster educations as possible, to control foster parents but to provide them with compensation for what they are doing. We're not going to get people in our own right on some kind of human approach, so it's all gonna be you, that all the kids that need to be taken home, we're not. And we need to be aware of that and make it very clear and loud. So the other side must be made possible, along with their desire, to enable them to be virtually dedicated to those children, to those who care and to live. And that's why we at the club welcome this idea of the law that we have a professional foster home, even more so, I think we should consider increasing the benefits for foster parents who are standard foster parents. To strengthen them and increase that fee, to stimulate fostering, for we will find it difficult to do so in some other way. We have various organizations, which help, which educate, that keep on the phone, which are initially turned on. I have an example that I want to set here as a beautiful example, perhaps as an incentive for some of our citizens, our families to have something like this happen in Croatia. The other day I was at a event marking the 20th anniversary of a wonderful collaboration of the crusader school of Ljudevita Modeca and an association in the Italian town of Breša, which has been helping socially endangered children without family from the town of Križevci for 20 years. Over 500 children were placed in families in Italy over the past 20 years, they later served as corporate godmothers, scholarshipd to their schools, gained a new experience of friendly relationships and relationships, and thus showed how we can take care of children in such a way. Let it be an incentive for something like that to happen. But this organization of Bimbo Kjama Bimbo is called an association founded by seven couples from Italy, 7 couples who launched the initiative, today have over 500 members of activists who work and help children. Not just from the Cross, but beyond that. And let this be one small introduction to the other part in which I want to speak here in this law and state the very clear position of most of the HDS, HDSSB and HSLS Club. We at the club such as different opinions have a very clear view as regards the Croatian Democratic Party and the HDSSB, we support absolutely the proposed law and we will not support the amendment submitted to this law. While counterpart Kosor of HSLS reserves his right to decide on how to vote. These Italian people from that association, I said just before seven married couples, seven men and seven women launched one such initiative. Thank God, children are still born in a way that both women and men must participate. Croatian citizens made their position about marriage very clear in the referendum. What they think about the basis of Croatian society. They said marriage is a community of men and women. And according to our court, all the laws that are passed must be in that spirit, they must go in that direction, not to play the will of the citizens in the way it was played, a few months after the referendum was carried out, the ruling majority then played the will of the citizens and passed a law that was contrary to the will of the citizens. Now, of course, we must determine whether we are going in accordance with and on the road that the citizens have drawn up for us in the referendum or whether we will play the will of the citizens, in any law and so on. And it's really not normal, for a month now, to have a public debate on whether we should allow same-sex marriage communities to foster children. And in this we have practically forgotten what is important and the main thing that is being said here today, thank God, today we are finally talking about children. Of course, adults who need to be fostered are also spoken of. Our position here is very clear, absolutely opposed to such changes of laws that would allow it. Not because we have something against someone, we have nothing against anyone, but we respect the will of Croatian citizens. And we call on all those who think differently to keep in mind that Croatian citizens have made their position very clear and that we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament are obliged to follow and respect the will of citizens, so this is the first and basic task that we must have in mind. As I have already said, the club will call on the bill as it is proposed, support it, we believe that it is an improvement, we believe that it could cause increased adoption activities, but we also call on ministers, to really once again and while you bring in the rules, as you set out the censorships, while you determine the fees, to bear in mind that by increasing compensation for the standards of fosterers, even more potentiates and strengthens the interest of these people, that they can generally foster children but also help older people who remain the same often unsettled. Today we have a situation so that children no longer care about parents, that often they too are left behind, left to Malta, not to worry about society taking care of them, even though the law tells us that a child has to take care of his parent. And unfortunately, they often find themselves in situations and accommodations in families or accommodations in nursing homes and in society to care for them. So let us try to build a society based on real and healthy foundations. Let us not succumb to one approach, some modern times, and destroy what is the foundation of society. Let's not get out of the way of the mind that a child who may be about 6, 7, 10 needs to get into an environment he's used to, that it's normal for a child to grow up primarily in a home where there's a man and a woman, where there's someone he can identify with his mother, that there's someone he can identify with his father. Tells me one mom who asked her daughter these days what the kid thinks about it, the kid goes to the fifth grade elementary school, she says, "What do you think if someone were to be, to live in a community where the two dads are, or where the two moms are, the kid looked at her and said, "Mummy would be weird, and the kids would kind of screw them up in school, kids are honest, kids aren't thinking about whether they should say something or not." Now they're going to say some kids need to be raised that it's normal for them. Maybe sometimes it'll be normal, maybe sometimes kids will be produced without their fathers, maybe it'll be some production on tape, and today it's not like that. Today the child comes from the father and mother. Both on this trail and on the will of Croatian citizens, we should continue to build our society and preserve its values and values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108789	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next representative on behalf of GLAS and HSU's club is counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here are my colleagues Turina-Đurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with your associates. I will speak on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU, and since I am the chairman of the board, I have given the report at the beginning, I will begin the topic a little bit, the whole topic of my presentation with yesterday's session of the board of presidents, and where there has been a very sharp debate over more than an hour, which has been expected after the final draft of the law was withdrawn and we were convinced that there has been some mistake that the ministry has missed out on all the good that has been done in this law, that we are now not counting on a number of articles where we have all been satisfied with the technical promotion of the position and the fosterer and those who are going to be fostered, under the law of one of the law and the other members of the law that the law itself has been passed on to the other members of the club. And we believe that there was only a failure and that, of course, after the HDZ coalition partner, the HNS who quietly agreed on the coalition, I think that he could also agree in silence on the change of this article, to change, to accept the amendment, but obviously it didn't work because we saw it yesterday on the board, and we will likely see it in the vote because the promoters are in their own which we absolutely don't think is good. So we thought that there was a failure and that in one decent conversation through those amendments that we have proposed, which have already reached the point where we are going to find ourselves and that the Proposer himself will take over the amendment of Article 9(3) and allow at least this one life partnership as the Minister says today, and we have the knowledge that the two were in the process of achieving the right to foster care, but it doesn't matter, so that only one, by changing this article, might open up a chance for any other potential foster parents to come from the same sex communities or from life partnerships. If we stay on this, of course, it won't be possible, and what's terrible is that yesterday, in this way, the Committee's session was present as a representative of an association, which deals with issues of same-sex communities which from the rainbows, so-called long families, which had the opportunity to listen to our debate that wasn't very pleasant, and which was not exactly, as I would say with arguments, such as to encourage members of that community to have some bright future in this country. He also got a chance to plead at the end of all our debates, it wasn't passed down to you in the record I read, it was such an assessment that we wouldn't bring it up in the record, but I'll tell you, it was a shame on me. I was ashamed to hear from this person, a very decent person who was very kind to us, but she actually embarrassed us. She shamed us with her greatness, because one of the people who would like to be with her foster partner, and she addressed us in a way that we really cannot get a chance to realize our life in a small family to become foster parents of a child, they primarily aim at it. It was me, terrible. I hope that, I hope not, but I am convinced, I think that our Club, too, has not agreed yet, but I think that if our Club passes this law will seek an assessment of the constitutionality, first of all, meaning this article of the Law, because we absolutely think that we are right, that he, that we need to change it because he limits the human rights of a certain group of people, which is absolutely inadmissible through our Constitution, but also through the laws, which are in charge of these situations, and I think we will experience another one in a series of defeats related to the social laws that were in this House that we have to change them in some short time. And yesterday, in that debate on the Committee, we discussed the most about this point, and what several Committee members asked and received a single answer, which is a big problem for us in GLAS, is a big problem which is why we will not support this law, if it does not change, and that is that the Minister's answer to why the same-sex communities, or life partners, are not included, the only answer she gave, was that we could not get any firmer argument from her saying that the children who would be fostered in such communities, in order to be further stegmatized. I responded immediately to the Committee and warned that what she said, that it was something terrible, because according to which she felt that children would be further Stigmatized, it could happen that today-to-morrow we are not going to host children, for example, in different ethical groups, meaning in marriages, in families that are concluded and marriages that are concluded between different ethical groups, ethnic groups, then different religious communities, different skin colors, and so on, and so on. Why would I bring that up? Because in same-sex communities, on LGBT persons, very often the spears were broken around human rights, through the history of democracy, because from these proposals there is always that worm doubt that some others, which are minorities' turn to rule them out, any, and for various reasons. And that it goes through the lichen in this kind of thing, as we say down there, without anyone saying anything and anyone showing a red card, what about the voice won't go away unless an agreement is reached to change it. So, we will also support all those amendments that went in that direction, and of course our own, because we, too, have submitted it, and that is that the right to foster care, means that the foster family is a community made up of the foster parent and his or her spouses, life or informal life partners, as it stands, is an addition, as it stands in the third article of this Law. We are here discussing politics all the time, I am pleased that some colleagues praise this Law and it has, in a technical sense, brought a whole series, and it is therefore unfortunate, that we are actually breaking, but we are breaking over an extremely important issue, a politically important issue. It's not enough that the laws are only technically good, the laws have to answer the questions of life, the goals of this society, create in this society a positive atmosphere, create an atmosphere of equal opportunities, equal opportunities for all people, no matter where they live, how they live, who have faith, skin color, eye color, etc., if this assembly can't accept those standards, then it doesn't really deserve that grade given to our citizens by this common one, which is somewhere around a couple of twos, and now we've been barely getting to it lately. So we have a negative rating from our citizens. That we can't think in such a positive way and make it a small step. Madam Minister, the law is good and I'm going to try to paint it a little picturesquely, he's like a nice cake that's got a very nice frosting, his fillet's just as good, but you forgot to put sugar in it, and somehow the cake is supposed to be cute. In this law, you've only destroyed the good intensity of this law by that failure, and I think there may be, or I hope there's still time to talk about changing it. I think the prime minister should also be involved, and if it is possible to reach him as a pro-European politician who knows how many countries in Europe have not passed such laws and regulations on this matter that I am talking about, it means in point 9 but just the other way around. It's a chance to change that, very simply, to apologize to those who need it, you say that only one life partnership that has run for office has not a lot to apologize for, but it shows if we do it where we go what we really want. We want an equal society of all of us, including those of one who is somewhere far away and perhaps under-seeing and under-recognizable. So let's be big enough when they've already shown themselves to us, when they've turned our attention, as a council, as a legislative body, and let's say we've added those two words to that law and been proud to do this work, not actually do evil over not perhaps too many people at this point, and in order to sort of invest in those who were against the Life Partnership Act or some other proposals that some former government has come out here and brought them to their majority. This will not bring this country and the citizens of this country into a better position than it will force them to think about leaving the country and that man who was on the board yesterday is, that's what I was told, and that sentence told me that some of the MPs, they didn't name them, told him what you're doing with what you're fucking with and you're looking for those rights to go to Denmark and you live in Denmark. So it obviously came from one of the MPs' mouths. So will we drive people away because they have a different opinion, because they belong to a certain minority, send messages from this home, move from Croatia. There will be fewer of us, and there will be fewer of those to whom we will even be able to turn from this constituency mountain if we continue to work the way we started. Here I thank you, so if something doesn't change in the meantime, GLAS and HSU won't support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108791	Thank you very much, Mr. Stjepan Curaj is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108792	I thank the Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, and I want to start this exhibition with what's really good in this law, with why we're bringing this up, and in fact there's no one in this law, we can probably all agree in 90% of cases there's not one bad thing, nothing bad is written. So it's all acceptable, I think to a large number of MPs here maybe some small executives, there's an amendment we've invested, a disagreement of technical but essentials, so none of these words are questionable to anyone, at least I haven't heard that, not to us. What is being arranged here and what we want to get with this law is to encourage fostering fostering in Croatia, to try to prevent the institutionalisation of children, i.e. deinstitute, but now I'm confused, to uninstitutionalise them, so those who are already in homes, to improve the quality of care, to improve it as an occupation. So here we introduce the concepts of fosterhood itself, and as a profession that can be specialized, it can be traditional if I'm not wrong or standard, so we have a relative, so it's branched out absolutely so that only more people can activate and enable only children, than older and powerless and all of them really needy, better quality, better care. That's the meaning of this law. Here we open up the possibility of compensation, so actually creating foster care as an interest in those unemployed, in one way and stimulating, I'll just read it to you, and it'll be like an introduction to the subject, which are all the conditions that need to be met by someone by law, which doesn't mean and doesn't guarantee that they'll be able to be foster parents. So, age-old business ability. Croatian citizens, having residence and living in the Republic of Croatia, under 60 years of age, unless they continue to carry out foster care or if foster care as a relative has completed at least secondary education, unless the foster care is carried out as a relative, completed training for the foster parent, unless it is related, meaning, training, there is no obstacle from the art. 18, and that's where the disturbed relationships in the family, the disease, the condition, etc., socially unacceptable behavior, all those legal assumptions are practically there's no obstacle to working. It shall have the written consent of all full-time members of the joint household to carry out the foster care unless the foster care is carried out as single. Then it further says when it submits in a joint household it must realise its own means of maintaining more than 70% of the amount of the guaranteed minimum compensation for singles or households established by law, etc. And then, on the basis of all these conditions, the foster home center assesses the family, the motives of the person and his family to carry out foster care in relation to the family, and their impact on the acceptance of the users, etc. etc. The foster care centre is conducting training. Does this seem like an easy job to anyone? Singles can, but that doesn't mean they can, that everyone will be. And when we talk about that one thing, because I said there's nothing controversial about the text here. The only thing that's questionable is what's not there. And why we submitted the amendment. Is that with the existing laws we have, and above all we are talking about the Life Partnership Act of the same sex, we have left them out, practically not in that very implementing part of the law, but in the general provisions, in the preamble, where the concepts are defined, there are no, in Article. 9th wheel. 3. are not indicated. And we here don't say that it will and must be if they state, they will have to meet all those assumptions that the foster center will implement and verify and these legal ones that have to meet, from education to financial, to conditions, everything that can be. And not to mention a relative, where someone can happen because of their sexual orientation, can't foster a niece, niece, or anything, anyone who's in a close relationship. That's not what we're saying right now. And then we go to the full goal of this Law, which is to reduce the number of children in institutions and allow such people to at least compete. But the purpose and purpose must be the child's interest. Now we're talking about kids here all the time. We need to know that this can be a very good thing for an elderly helpless person, and that is what this Law says. And we actually have this where we have a law that speaks in art. The 37th century 4th century that life partners have the same procedural rights and status in court and administrative proceedings as marriage mates. And then later, when spoken here, means, the objections that were made to this Law, and there were, we can find them, to include life partners, since fostering as a form of providing social services accommodation comes from the Social Care Act, and the meaning of the foster family is based on the meaning of the general rule. This we have to, it's like an explanation why they're not proposing, we need to know that this law is lex specialis, this in relation to the Social Care Act. And he doesn't define what a foster family is, he's a general regulation, and this is a lex specialis and it's a place to define, not in general, where he's not. And that's when we get into trouble with another series of gender equality laws. 6th century 3. where a prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation is clearly prescribed. Well, the law... discrimination. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8. It states that everyone has the right to access services provided by the state bodies and bodies of the unit of local self-government, etc., and this is one about these social services and we are actually discriminating them there. Well, then we can get to art. 14. The Constitution, we can also quote the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, etc. And then what paradox is that single man can, regardless of his sexual orientation, and formal, informal, same sex couples, married couples, can't. Then what are we afraid of? This doesn't mean it's not nearly the same as adoption. So, you foster care, especially if we talk as an occupation, that child can come, you can sometimes ask him, it can go away if it's estimated that something is wrong, if the child's conclusion means, we're talking about children older, I don't know, 8 years old, if I'm not wrong, but maybe younger. So that doesn't mean it's written... It has nothing to do with any concept of adoption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the minister here is right actually because her argument today is against the same argument that the SDP had when we were with them 4-5 years ago, 3-4 years ago when the law was passed, in 2014. Same exact argument. It's not a society ready, it's a Stigmatization, we were up for it back then. Neither we as HNS, nor those colleagues who were no longer in HNS left the government, were resigning because it wasn't done because we want it, it's not something we're going to crash on, but that doesn't mean that we still don't think it's good. Because Stigmatizing, I've said it a few times already, we've all heard about that ugly expression, the home children, so what kind of stigmatization, how their social integration, don't let him be from your home, so I don't see any worse stuff that a child can have besides that, but it doesn't mean, if we make this possible and if our amendment is accepted, that now only sex couples are going to foster. Why? Why don't we all be encouraged, especially if we put it as an occupation, and why don't these foster care centers assess where is best and what couples are best. I'm not saying that all of them are neither heterosexual couples, nor family, nor sex that they are neither the best nor the other, they have everything in every life. To talk about some influences, different statistics or assessments, I said 50-odd years ago, 70-bit, living in an out-of-marriage relationship was a stigma, still having kids imagine, so imagine yet the woman doesn't have the same last name as the husband, that's what, watching, the malts don't get baptized, today it's normal. I don't know when we're talking about statistics, I mean we can go to the extreme, I haven't heard of any example of a homosexual person who's become that because she lived in a gay family or was a child of same-sex parents. And almost all the homosexuals I know are from heterosexual families, whether singles or families, what are we going to say now? That heterosexual families create people homosexual' So of course we won't, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. Is that an argument? Or we're going to let this great law that I have to congratulate us for, that they had the courage and took it, and that's what we should have done, and in the interest of the children, we're going to let them get in the way of the system and fall down to nothing. And those who will submit a constitutional assessment are as responsible as that? Well, he's not responsible for saying something's wrong, I guess he's responsible for something that's not good. So I appeal once again, let's think about it, this isn't said and given as a right, but here we're only talking about the ordinary possibility of competing, so in the end line and the children will recognize it themselves, older and powerless people whether they want it or not, whether they're okay, whether they're not, because their opinion is important. Well, maybe no one will be satisfactory and no one will sign up from the same-sex couples or marriages or life unions, and it won't be, but this is the only way we're looking for that possibility of not discriminating anyone, and doing what's best in the interests of children, and this isn't a prelude, it's no prelude, it's nothing to do with adoption, and it can't be brought into the same correlation that now if we did this, then we have to do that. No, because this is not the law we can call upon when we talk about adoption, and the Life and Informal Life Partners Act, is directly to which this creates problems in the constitutionality of this Law if it stays as it is. I repeat again, please simply make this step, and civilizationally, I believe that it is something that we have power in this House and no matter what party belongings, no matter what, that it is something that should simply take that first step. And 20 years ago, being in some coming procession wasn't exactly great, today nobody's looking at it anymore, nobody cares, and that's actually the goal of it all. I believe that we can go well here, argue and if this is not voted on Monday, and if the amendment is not accepted, the HNS Club will unfortunately not support this Act, but I, once again, appeal to all MPs to support the amendment and in the final line, then support such amended Law, because it is good and for the child's well-being and it will remain, and resist all potential constitutional lawsuits and once again congratulations and promoters on, in addition, a very systematic and quality law with excellent objectives that should arise from this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108793	Thank you very much. Mr. Recajmir Varda in front of the Labour and Solidarity Party Representatives Club, Reformist and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108794	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I have to shorten my debate over other obligations, so I'll just try a few things that I think are important. I've listened carefully to all the arguments and replicas I've heard so far, and now I'm interested in the following. Last night I watched it open, all the time. HNS gives the amendment and the others on the same subject, and only about that is we're spinning de facto all the time, except maybe one or two debates, was one of the colleagues of Hrga. Now I'm curious, what changed in three years in the world horizon, in the cultural, traditional understanding of Croatian society, in three years? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. And from 2011 to 2015, you had a chance to change all that, you could change all that. You had two amendments to the Social Care Act, 2013 and 2014, you didn't even say that. You didn't even touch that. And when you talk about discrimination, then I have to tell you this, the Minister also called for Family Law by reason, and that same Government in 2012 adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Discussion of Discrimination. In Article 9, that same Act, paragraph 1, states that discrimination in all forms of occurrence is prohibited, but further in St. 2 it states that discrimination is not considered to be a more unfavourable situation in the following case, and that when placing in an unfavourable position in determining the rights and obligations of the regulated family law, and in particular for the purpose of legitimate protection of the rights and well-being of children, protection of public morality, etc. Do I have to further explain that there is no discrimination here? No, because obviously if you thought there was one then, then you'd be changing this law because you had a chance for it. And in the end, we landed this government, and you had opportunities for the Istanbul Convention and left this Social Care Act the way it was. And now this government is trying to do something, this minister and the ministry are also praising the content of the bill itself, but as far as the club's Labour and Solidarity Party, reformists and national minorities and independent representatives are concerned, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, as you know, the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives in the club have no problems, we have no problems with these issues. Why? Because you know that we differ in the light of the world, in our understandings, unlike other representatives clubs on this and similar occasions, so when it comes to the Amendments, the club members will vote as they think, and how we will vote in the end on the bill, the club will decide. As for me personally, my vote, Madam Minister, you have for the final draft of the law, and if I didn't repeat it, because I said in advance that I had to shorten the debate, I also call for the debate of my colleague Hrga, she would be signed 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108795	Now it's Mrs. Dragana Jeckov's turn in front of the SDSS counseling club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108796	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Madam Minister with Associates, the SDSS's Club supported the proposal of the Household Act in the first reading, which, at the time, pointed out that the bill should indeed have been discussed 10 years ago, if not more, and that this proposal of the Law is very meaningful, concrete and brings a number of solutions that will improve and strengthen the foster care as an institute and make it more accessible, in fact, to more interesting potential foster parents. Hostage is a form of care outside of your own family to provide accommodation and care in a foster family, in this case to a child or an adult. So, a child or an adult of whom there are, therefore, more adults than children, which is often neglected in this debate. Accommodation in the foster family is recognised as the most qualitative form of care, as more natural, humane compared to accommodation in the institution, and we have highlighted the importance of the advantages of foster care based, therefore, on the principles of the family environment, the sustainability of social ties and the involvement of the user himself. The home family accepts the user as their member, the user receives a sense of family belonging, and therefore, in recent times, it is in the foster home family that the householder is seeking to accommodate. Hosthood is a noble decision, but it is extremely responsible that changes and touches many lives, so it is very important to make such a decision with great thought in mind what foster care is doing. Often, therefore, we have had opportunities to hear, young people for foster care have no interest, and the number of middle-generation foster parents decreases dramatically and the number of middle-generation foster parents, as one of the older foster parents says, is getting closer to 65, after which we are no longer able to deal with foster children and young people are gone. In the debate then, but also in this day, it is important to highlight and refer to the Ombudsman's report for children, which also repeatedly points to the exceptional importance of raising a child in a family environment, calling for numerous international and domestic documents. So, by ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the State has taken the obligation to ensure that the child is not separated from its parents against their will, unless this separation is necessary in the best interests of the child, and then it is necessary to provide the child with replacement care. We have also pointed out that we believe that poverty should by no means be that element because the child will be separated from the family. According to the Ombudsman for children, the main criterion for the exercise of the right of foster care should be the ability, motivation and commitment of a person to provide adequate care and care for children, not for their sexual orientation or birth identity to be a challenge. Therefore, in a replacement family and in a foster home, the most important thing is to provide the child with the best possible care and support. Of course, when deciding on this subject, we should keep in mind the direction that our scientists from the Republic of Croatia have shown us, 200 of them signed by name and last name, signed by their title and reputation. So, 200 experts, the mahogany of psychologists, sociologists and educators, who tell us that we need to accept and recognise the diversity of existing family communities and relations in the Republic of Croatia, and the importance that we are all guided by scientific knowledge, not prejudice and stereotypes. Statistics suggest that according to the ageing population, Croatia is following trends in highly developed European countries where there are growing ageing populations. In proportion to these figures, we do not grow in awareness of the possibilities of foster care so that we still have more families who provide foster care to adults than those who deal with foster care, and as I have already said, this problem is being bypassed in this debate. The decision to introduce professional foster care as a form of care, to seek to revive and encourage fostering and deinstitutionalisation of homes is precisely one of the important intensities of this law, which is why this law is important and very good. New legal solutions should allow for an increase in the number of foster families to improve the quality of care and the introduction into family families. As we've heard from Madam Minister, the projection is that this number will increase to 50. 50%. We therefore consider this legal framework and the legal arrangement of this area to be very welcome, with a note that we pointed out in the first reading that it is necessary in the law to state that fosterers can be life and informal life partners that are not listed. The SDSS advocates' club will vote on its conscience that it is often heard in media space, and we will bear in mind the well-being of children and the suppression of discrimination on any basis clearly stated in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which brought this high home to 2008 in which it is clearly stated that discrimination is considered to place a person in a more unfavourable position on the basis of the wrong idea of the existence of a basis for discrimination, for discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108797	Thank you, too. We're done with clubs, we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Minister, the Minister of Associates, and here's my colleague Jeck mentioned that at this point more families who provide foster care to adults, so I will talk about this group of people with mental disorders who are and how they are stigmatized, not only in our society, but also in general at global level and even international law does not pay enough attention to people with mental disabilities when we look back at international documents such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their position is seen in the context of general protection of human rights and protection of persons with disabilities and is used, in my opinion, in an unfavorable manner, the term of persons with disabilities. According to the World Health Organization 450 million people suffer from some kind of mental disorder, we have a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders that emphasizes the importance of protecting the dignity of a person with mental disorders. Many times we go through the gap between theory and practice, if we generally look at people of older age, the vast majority of them don't want to go to homes for older people, the vast majority of them. So the same thing when we talk about foster care as a social service, then we need to know that we don't have to withdraw analogy here and now go by some kind of rough model so that all people with severe mental disorders should be in some form of surveillance, so also foster care. According to statistics, about 850 people with severe mental disorders are located in foster families. It is necessary to strive to keep them as few as possible, to keep them in their own family. But if we look at the retrospective of human rights of persons with mental disorders and tendencies that have changed, then we can see there, perhaps 50, 60 years ago, the situation in the Republic of Croatia was such if a person with schizophrenia who had no understanding of the family would often end up in psychiatric hospitals for the rest of his life. Then, from psychiatric hospitals, that direction was moving towards welfare institutions, homes for mental adults, and then it went correctly through the process of deinstitutionalisation, but again, as we often people tend to different extremes, then there was the principle of deinstitutionalization at all costs, until the total elimination of homes. Here I have to mention a home in Rijeka, Dom Turnic, which has an excellent programme and a deinstitutionalisation project that has developed and is working, I say it would be much better if those persons were in their families, but unfortunately we know that reality is quite different. It's always to be pawned, here I am as a person who works in a psychiatric hospital that after the hospital's treatment of people with mental disorders goes to his own family, but unfortunately we have situations where it's not possible for a number of reasons. Is there any inadequate housing and material conditions, lack of emotionally supportive environment, lastingly disturbed family relationships, and what is very important, therefore, that person should be asked if she has any other solution, whether she wants to go to a foster family? Therefore, it is always important that the consent and consent of a person who is specifically concerned and then, of course, the competent institutions, the arrangement of foster families and social care centres. It is important to mention this process of bartering when we talk about people with mental disorders where foster care teams at the social care centres find the most appropriate family, a foster family that is currently available and is being placed there. My experience with the vast majority of foster families is very positive and they really consider this person an extension of their new family. Some media inscriptions related to certain negative experiences, they didn't write for no reason, I don't think it's in any large numbers, but that one case should be responded to, and there's the importance of the jurisdiction of inspection services, we've all heard repeatedly that there are insufficient numbers of experts working in this sector, but we can't forget that surveillance. Again, if we are talking, therefore, about this graduation and the comparativeization of social care institutions with foster families that are certainly a step up, we must also know in the context of that story, the general principles, de institutionalization that there will be people with severe mental disorders who simply will not be able to function in foster families and for this reason there will have to be capacity for institutions of social care who will be specialised in people with mental disorders who will in the best possible way adequately care for that group of people. It is, therefore, important to care and interdisciplinary approach, therefore, except for this medical care, except for this social care and the role of the social care center, of course, it is important to see what kind of foster family it is, therefore, there are certain conditions, and this is in this final proposal of the Household Act extremely well-conceived, extremely well-designed, where there is a distinction between traditional, related foster care and the standard or specialised foster care that is currently available for children. So we can tell different stories here, but we need to be aware of where we are, what we are, what financial resources we have. I will mention one situation in Austria, so there the state financially stimulates family members to have any person older in life, any person with severe mental disorders, stay in the family. It's most appropriate, it costs the most, at least if we look at it in the short term, but then it's the best quality of life for people with mental disorders who stay inside their own family. I therefore support and believe that this Law is very high-quality, very professional, very exact and I appeal when we talk about the final proposal of the Household Act, respecting all the sensitivity and vulnerability of children's age that we also have in mind that there are, therefore, foster families that care for both persons of older age and persons with different forms of disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108799	You have one replica from Mr. Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108800	... In your debate, you did not refer to what we talked about the most today, so I would like to hear your opinion, therefore, about the possibility that the same-sex communities are fostering children, therefore, of a purely personal nature. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108801	Here you go, Mr. Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108802	Thank you very much. Well, I'm a parliamentary representative of the 7th constituency and I'm trying to articulate their views on this issue specifically regarding the Household Act. My personal position does not differ a bit from that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of State. If we look at it in general, any option that it is, it's better than the accommodation of a child in the Social Care Institution, but I think this Law is a good regulation of this area and I wouldn't be able to turn it into a world-wide direction when we're talking about this very important topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108803	We're moving on with individual debates. Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin-Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108804	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, distinguished Minister with fellow Members, I welcome you, dear colleagues and colleagues, so here I am following the course of the debate on this Act, I will be free to bring my own personal opinion that the tree does not actually show the forest and that this Law is in the manner of those laws that are being misused for political purposes. And it's really paradoxical that instead of the rights of children to be fostered and which are primarily children and adults subject to this Act, a campaign has been created in public and that the best way to go is to have some hooters, hooters and provocators, and we here, who want to reason, talk about numbers and facts, look at how many of us are here, and where are now those who have been hooting, who, this hoots, who have picked up the creams, but that's probably our fault too, are partly the media and the whole social situation, and so is what it is. However, what is important here is that this is a new law which firstly seeks to encourage as many citizens as possible to foster children and to foster people over the age of 18, so adults who for certain reasons are unable to live alone, so they live in the institution, either because of some mental disturbances, due to development disorders or similar reasons. And for the first time, he wants to give people who want to stay home the opportunity to have their rights regulated in the form of a pension internship. that foster care is recognised as a sort of profession. And let's just say, yesterday I heard from a politician saying that the people who are fostering it would do it for the money. It is primarily generalization, then it can be an insult to all those people who want to foster children, and above all it is incorrect, because those who do it for money, so they do it now, and they will do it in the future until they are eventually caught by an inspection in what they are doing, and to say forgive them, you cannot do it, you are not given it for the right, and in this way you are actually neglecting these foster parents that the state or restaurant center has entrusted to you with concern. In order for someone to become a foster parent, this person has to pass the Social Care Centre assessment and that is even similar to the procedure that people who want to pass the adoption procedure are going through, this would even be some kind of test balloon for adoption, and the Law is as such the result of the long-term work of those workers who know the immediate situation on the ground. He didn't come from yesterday to today, we heard from the Secretary-General that he had been going through various, various groups for some time, that the Draft existed in several forms, and that after the preconditions were created, so if we wanted to go financially, and above all politically to go into the settlement of this area, it now joined this Law. What's important to say is why today is a small interest in fostering, and there's a way to misinformed. Well, after II. World War II was a lot of interest in fostering, and that was one period when it was most interesting, in rural areas there were a lot of children without parents, and so on. Today, because of modern lifestyles, little time, more work, and so on, it is actually difficult to find time, even when there is a will to foster a child. But what bothers me personally, and I believe every well-intentioned citizen, regardless of political orientation or its worldview, means that so much of the falseness of this Law is tied up to expose all these false and manipulations, it really needs to be said a few concrete facts. So, in 2014, the Life Partnership Act was passed, and in that law it could be this provision that the opposition is now talking about all the time. Why, then, this provision of equal partners and their rights, is not put into this Act, and now this party, and I must say, is hypocritically insisting that it be in the Household Law, where it doesn't really have to be, because the Life Partnership Act is a variety of institutions governed by various rights, so you have an institute that regulates pension rights, family legal issues, inheritance rights, and so on, and why didn't this issue be settled? Why? Was there no will, was there no idea, was there no organization, was there any verse that didn't think of it, and so on? So you can't expect now that a return-application in this Act, in which it is not at all a matter of interest, is going to put something that shouldn't have been put into some other laws. We can talk about Family Law, Life Partnership Act and all other laws if time permits. In fact, I am saddened to see that now in this way, Croatian citizens are somewhat underestimated, as if they have a memory of six months to a year, and they have no longer remembered, because it really seems that some in politics think that the memory of Croatian citizens is shorter than a year, so they don't see what the previous Government of the opposition has failed to do and now it's imputing that in this law that doesn't regulate these issues at all, but the issues of fostering children, and above all, are the subject of dealings, these issues, or all of what I've counted, or I'm going to count if time lets me. The best benefit for the child is the category that Croatian legislation has and recognised and has known for a long time. We've heard a few thesis here. The foster family is even under the Family Law, treated in a way that is primarily a transitory cell, because this process, in order to have a child, is often, in fact, these children come from dysfunctional families, of course it would be ideal to adopt a child, not to ball him from one foster family to another foster family. However, the Family Law also, which is in agreement with some other laws and all regulate the best welfare for a child, says that if it is possible, that a child who is fostered is returned to the biological family after 6 months, a year, or already after a judicial review, if possible. However, often these biological families are very, very dysfunctional, children are abuse, children are neglected, it is often about cases where drug abuse, about pedophilia, and so on, and Croatian practice shows even that courts generally do not make it easy to take away a child and stay in the institution or foster family. The courts are prone to parents. But here, I had insight into some files. You had a situation in the center of Zagreb, a two-year-old child who, for reasons we do not know what reason, tied the rope to a radiator and left the child at home. Of course it was a terrible cry, the neighbors reacted, reacted, responded to the Centre responsible for social care, and the child was taken away. Will that mother be able to change her behavior if she may be a mental patient, or she has, or abuses alcohol and drugs, and that child, after a certain time from the foster home, returns to her, will be assessed by the competent Social Care Centre. But first of all, they need to take care of the interests of children, that children who have gone through terrible traumas, are not in the interest of being a few months to a year in one family, and then going to another, so first of all, the child's interest should be in the first place and should actually be talked about this all the time because this Law does not speak at all about the subject of the opposition and it is being constructed throughout the public. Here we are talking about this subject which is now concerned and of course this Law and other laws have room for improvement because we have recently seen that a person who is a guardian does not necessarily have to be a foster parent, but I see that time does not allow me, so perhaps I should conclude that the protection of children and adults should actually be primary and that in this law is primary and it is improving, and those who impose the burdens that this government is asking as a secular question, and on the contrary, the opposition has been doing so all the time saying about this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108805	You have two replicas, not anymore. The first replica, Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108806	Well-respected MPs, I see that you are very much in favour of foster care becoming a profession in the Republic of Croatia, which will lead to the fact that the quality of foster care will not be greater because it has proved everywhere in the world that professional foster care does not bring quality to these people, young people who are in these families. And secondly, I do not believe that in Dalmatia or in the City of Zagreb where foster care is in foster care, professionalisation of foster care will lead to more foster parents and I think that the legislator should have thought better about it when he introduced it into the Law because the Law is undetermined in that area, he says that there must be 3 protégés in order to be a professional foster parent. Two groups are created, one foster parents who are professionals, the other are not and I don't think the Law is good at it. Except for the one in the first part. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108807	Time, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108808	Thanks a well-respected colleague, this law regulates the question of retirement and wages for those people who want to be foster parents, I don't see anything wrong with it, because it's been bad so far that thousands of people who were foster parents actually are, that's what the opposition colleague was talking about, that they don't now have the right to do their job, and right now these things are seen as problematic and trying to settle this law. If some person isn't empathy and he's using the foster home position so that, in a way, to say, she would abuse that position and get money from the state, then it's terrible. But that's why there are competent inspections that need to regulate it, but this law actually has a good intensity to help these people get paid for the work they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108809	Another replica is Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108810	Dear colleagues of Petrijevcan, I personally consider it the right of every individual, the right of every association to fight for its human rights. I deeply believe that this law has been written by professionals, although the Law always has its own political regulatory context. For example, today, the Self - Restraint Association has requested that the Law be not supported by the fact that the rights of persons with disabilities are being violated. If I thought fundamental human rights were violated, I would not support this Law, but it is also important to see where we are, that this is the Republic of 2018, and that we cannot just copy models from some other countries, and for example, fostering people with mental disorders that exist anywhere in the world, but exist in the Republic of Croatia, research says that better working and social functionality is the person who is located in foster families.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108811	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108812	Thank you very much, dear colleague, so unfortunately we don't have enough time to get into the scale of this matter, we spoke here in judgments at the European Court of Human Rights on that we should be judges here in advance, and we know that the Family Law is precisely on the assessment of constitutionality and that it is a legitimate right, therefore, for everyone to question a certain legal framework, so to speak, in the Republic of Croatia. What I was about to say, so I didn't have time left, so I'm gonna use the replica to you, of course I agree with what you said. The European Court of Human Rights has decided on adoption and homosexual orientation, and not on fostering, and these are two different institutes, and all the time, if we consult experts, regardless of their worldview from the Faculty of Law, I stress independently about their worldview, then we will hear this fact, and that fact is constantly being promoted in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108813	And finally, Mr. Bojan Glavasevic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108814	My colleague, you asked why the government, in which I was, among other things, the assistant minister, didn't do this. I absolutely agree with you, and I wish you did. However, you could ask Mr. Varda that question when he spoke and asked that same question because, namely, he was at the time in HSU which was the party that was in power, so you could ask him that too, in a replica, for example. But look, this is not a world-wide question, this is a matter of systematic discrimination of LBT persons, and that's why I'm talking about which in the process they get direct information that it's not possible to do because they're gay. There's a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia for that. So, it's not a question of worldview, it's a matter of discrimination and I'd like to have, based on the Life Partnership Act, all the other laws are in line, but they're not. That's why we have to do it and that's why we're talking about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108815	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108816	Well, honestly, I don't think that this Law discriminates because there are other laws that regulate the rights of those persons, and this Law does not regulate the rights of same-sex couples, it regulates the fostering of children and adults. Also why someone didn't do something, it's the personal responsibility of those people. I believe that this government has already shown a certain level of fight against discrimination, so we don't all have to mention the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but I will again mention the Law on the Protection against Family Violence, which I also spoke about and all of that positive European practice, and I believe that this will be the case in the future. I'm just saying that in this law to fill this category is simply unnatural. It can be regulated through other laws in other ways, but it also depends on a specific, defined a political option that will be in power. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108817	Thank you, let's move on, Mrs Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I have come to say in some way that the assessment of this law has given me the opportunity to reflect and through the replicas I will try to be as brief as possible and in advance apologize to my colleagues if they feel the need for replicats that I will not be able to respond to the replica because after a debate that will be significantly shortened, I must go to a conference that I am taking part in. In short, this law has good solutions and no one disputes, the fact is that the issue of foster care is a very complex issue, it is a fact that the Republic of Croatia faces the problem that fosterers in the Republic of Croatia are more than 50 years old and that a third of foster parents, with due respect for each individual but not completed high school or primary school, means lower education structures. The fact is the same that, in most cases, foster care has concentrated in rural areas and that young highly educated foster families in urban areas are becoming less and less. Here we also had opportunities to hear in debates on behalf of clubs, that unfortunately our young highly educated, not only young, but also mature leave to deal with foster care, unfortunately in some other countries outside the Republic of Croatia, and that through this law, the Republic also narrows down to young highly educated people living in urban areas to be foster parents and to enter this market of providing social services only because they are different sexual orientations. What I would like to absorb is the fact that as a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia had to sign a directive on trade in services that are actually within the EU's borders, i.e. in the EU, must be without barriers. So we're not talking about adopting and creating some legal family environment here, we're talking about fostering or fostering, which is the social service of providing home and care, not only to children but also to mature old and powerless persons. What I am interested in is how it is possible for the state, for example, to open a tender for the provision of such a single social service or any other social service, and as a special criterion for those who cannot access the competition or meet the criteria in the same competition, is the fact that sexual orientation is different or that the person of homosexual orientation is something that is unseen. And even if there is one in the current legislation, it's something we have to correct, and it's something that shouldn't be here. The second aspect is the fact that a colleague of Petrijevčanin also mentioned it is not true that disputes at the European Court of Human Rights are lost because they are given the right to persons with the same registered adoption partners, no, it is also about fostering or fostering them. It is illogical and until today we haven't received an answer to that question what I asked on the board, not just me but other colleagues, how it is possible that when we talk about providing social services to foster parents by a single person are different criteria compared to couples. Of course, I don't mean different criteria when we talk about heterosexual couples or singles, but we have in the law a situation where fostering is allowed for singles who are gay orientations which I think is fine because you don't need to give someone the opportunity to adopt a child into his sexual orientation, but you need to question his psychological, sociological, and any other quality that is important for that child or that adult to grow up in a safe, stable environment and have adequate care. And on the other hand, registered or life partners and unregistered life partners who are same-sex country orientations make it impossible, unlike singles, which is a nonsensic that I don't know how to simply answer, how to answer it, which answer you give because there simply isn't any here in the resistance logic. The fact is also that children who are in homes, children without adequate care and poor social care are not children of equal partners that are children of heterosexual partners who come from dysfunctional families so as to put what is good for a child, a sign of equality between what is good for a child and a heterosexual couple regardless of whether he is in a marriage or an extramarital community is completely inappropriate and completely missed, this has nothing to do with a relationship. That's what I've been saying and I'm gonna say it again. To a child, it is the child's interest to live in a family without violence, to live in an environment without violence, to have adequate care, to be able to consume all his rights, to consume all his rights, and preferably to be surrounded by love, warmth and feeling for all his needs, it cannot guarantee him the mutual relationship of two persons, regardless of those homosexual or heterosexual nature. However, the state should not take its right to, in such a brutal way as to cut off and say good, these apricots are acceptable to enter into the process itself to be candidates for fostering, and these are totally unacceptable because of the fact that they love a person of the same sex, to live with a person of the same sex, or that a person of the same sex is their choice of life, which is simply abnormal, and that is something that is simply inappropriate. And I end up, 845 children are currently unsettled, many older and powerless persons who equally seek foster care. So let us now count on how many of these elderly and powerless persons, how many of these children may be deprived of having the warmth of someone at home, having someone who takes care of him being a member of the rope, expanding families when we talk about older people who need to be fostered or a underage child, just because we have decided in this way to actually restrict and discriminate on a part of society. In public too, more examples have been presented where the state, through its institutions, in the process of fostering, has rejected same-sex couples who were young and highly educated, who have been positively passed all psychological and social tests and who, in all matters, meet high household criteria. Couples who were willing to foster hard-to-home due to health problems, Roma and ethnicities were rejected solely because of their sexual orientation i.e. because they are in a life or informal life partnership. Well, one such person was present on our committee yesterday and came to us and they went through the whole procedure, they were assessed positively, literally after the whole procedure, so someone let them go into the process of running for foster care, someone decided by political decree not to give them the child. And the question that this young person who lives with his life partner asked yesterday is, why would they and his partner have to get divorced to run as singles to foster that child, cheat on the state, get that child, and then one day out of the closet pops a dad who's unknown to the state and is actually a partner of that same person? Is it normal, is this the way we want to encourage such, I don't know, you might have something against a registered partnership, maybe you're more acceptable homosexuals as singles and you're unacceptable to such registered communities, and that's why I asked you earlier, why it hurts so much for someone who loves whom you love, especially why it hurts if people decide to register their love. With same sex couples, the state has recognised the right to love, recognised certain rights as well as heterosexual couples, I mean, we don't have any of that until they influence ours, as I would say, until they violate our freedom of choice heterosexual whatever it is, which I would have against having someone love the same sex, to decide on a life with it, so maybe today-to-morrow if the circumstances change and I hope this country, not only adopt children but also that those children adopt, give them love, home, a normal childhood that is certainly much more comfortable than those home, cold walls where you are, unfortunately, one number in statistics and where nobody cares about you and the least state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108819	Thank you. Two replicas, first lady. Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108820	I'm thinking about what to tell my colleague Sabina Glasovac, and I'm wondering why this kind of energy, this kind of emotion hasn't been spent and mobilized by the entire media audience to talk about having children stay away from dysfunctional families for too long and not dealing with the issue of taking parental care, to stay in the home for too long, so after seven years as I was fostered, it takes the process before the father who never saw her and the mother who abused her and when she was 3 years old has finally taken away parental care, that the child can be adopted. So, today we talk all the time and I really don't have anything against life partners, all the time we're talking about is just one aspect and we're not talking about what we can do to make sure that the CZSS aren't being converted, unprepared for having to be supportive to the foster parents. but we're only talking about one aspect [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Which is of no importance, we heard the data today. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] One... [[/Intruder Radin: Mrs. Strenja-Linić, time.]] Okay, thanks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108821	Unfortunately, it's running by itself. Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108822	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm very sorry that my colleague, the Voicer, took off so quickly because as a police officer, I discovered that there was another possible abuse when one adopts a child but on another approach entirely. Imagine this, a lesbian marries a normal person as I call it and has a child with him. And then right away, report him for violence, break up with him, take that same kid plus half the property, here I was thinking about how they could cheat like a cop, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108823	You made yourself clear. Now it's Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108824	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Today, an issue is being countered that ideological disputes are actually taking place in the debates. But if you think about it a little bit better, in all these discussions where ideological debates are usually based, or differences, it's actually something completely different. It is therefore a form of conflict between people who want to deny acquired rights and prevent them from developing and those who think that all acquired rights should be preserved and further spread. So it's a conflict over human rights, whether we want to admit it or not. Whether a party or some political group will wrap it up in some of their political messages, it is a matter of political practice. But in this particular case, it is necessary to say what a conservative democratic Europe is doing and what is happening around us. 20 EU countries, including those traditionally considered Catholic, have loosened their relationship when it comes to prejudices and are working hard to remove the stigma among other things because they meet as well as the whole modern Western world with several major open problems. The first is a total redefinition of the idea of family versus what we knew 50 or 100 years ago. So today the family is quite something else, a large and growing number of people living alone. Third, it's getting harder to start a child. The fourth and that number of marriages that are made in direct danger is to be broken down because the number of broken marriages is growing rapidly from country to country. It's a third somewhere, some countries say it's more than half already. These are some trends that do not contribute to the social stability of society. And conservative political parties are trying to come up with this and see what to do to make society more stable through retraditionalisation but not in a way that comes back to models from 50 or 100 years ago but to admit reality, to expand the concept of family, that equally every living community is declared equal, that people living in those communities are stimulated to have children, to help them have them. If they don't have them to earn them by fostering them or adopting them. The fact is, we're talking about social services today, adoption is quite different but we can't forget that these are two connected systems because in a large number of cases when fostering foster parents want and if the conditions are acquired and they ask for the child to be adopted, if it's a child. An unbreakable emotional relationship is created, which is not a good thing to break up just because the child has reached a certain age and has become a full - time adult or acquired a legal condition so that it is no longer adopted because a lasting emotional relationship is required. So, those political parties that think about the future, regardless of whether they are conservative, liberal or socialist, are trying to come up with models where society will make society happier and those social groups that are depressed, which are as vulnerable as possible to protect and include them in communities, hence the idea of inculsivity, the idea of inclusion and social services because we will all agree that the child in the home cannot be a happy child. As we will agree, the existing family communities, so-called. normal, not all ideal, and in such families children see violence, evil, ugly words, hate, intolerance. After all, let us not forget most children who are focused when talking about foster care come from such families. They've already been to so-called. To normal families, but they did so well in those families that the social system had to say a lot, take them away, put them away, protect them and remove them from such families and seek a solution to make them happy. Today, we asked how many people are really looking for a home and are in line with the same life partnerships. We heard from the minister one couple, in nature it seems two, because two of them called the ministry and they got a rejection, and they went through all the procedures in the welfare and evaluation centers, they came to an end, they had to just issue a solution, that solution was denied them. So we're talking about two pairs. Oh, God, there's 250 of them and we're talking about two pairs. Imagine if this law changed, there would be maybe 3. So only three, four, five kids would have a chance to find a new foster family. What we're fighting about is God's people, so that's funny and it's marginal. So are we going to cloud this whole thing that says we're creating something that's discrimination. We already have three laws that are in collegiate with this proposal. We have a constitution that defines the principle of tolerance, equality. From the other and suppressing of course discrimination. We also have decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. So we already know, we all know that practice is such that in a month, two, three, five, or maybe three years, this is going to have to change, but now the muscles are showing up. For what? Why we've been discussing this all day? There may be one good thing. Never in the history of the Croatian Parliament has the public discussed foster care with him so much. And that's a good thing. I'd say 9 out of 10 Croatian citizens don't even know what that is. Householding as an institute is in a major crisis, and there are fewer foster parents, and they're getting worse by the social structure that we don't talk about age, they're too old to receive new users, new protégés. And maybe this is good to promote the idea of fostering, to think about all those who already have children or who have no children but have the conditions to help others decide. These cases that we've stegmatized through our discussions by rejecting them, we refuse their right to be equal to everyone else in nature are ready for fostering hard-to-adopt and adoptive children. It's about the categories we know about, these are children with developmental difficulties, they're severely abused children, they're children from Roma families and they're willing to give their love to them, they're willing to put everything they have into function of their growing up in a happier environment. Why should that bother us? Why would that bother us at all? Well, isn't it the most important thing that anyone who wants to foster a child but in this particular case and his relative, the older person, must be capable of it. I don't ask if he's a man, a woman, whether he lives with a man or a woman, but whether he's capable of being a foster parent at all, because that's the key thing. We children and older people, powerless, must provide quality environments, they will also receive money for it, they must respond with a quality service, it is a social service, so it must be in the first place, who these people are, what they do, what they have, what they can provide, what way they will raise these people or help them. That's no. One, not who's tall, who's short, who's a man, who's a woman, who lives with who in the community. According to this proposal, discriminatory, let's say the same-sex couple, we're not going to let her adopt her own grandmother. Which institutionalized in the meantime or another family member. So, same-sex life partners, they can't be related adopters in this law, it's also a bad, ugly message. They're related, they're very close, and if just because they live in life partnerships makes it impossible for them, that's another injustice. There is no need, therefore, to tighten this story and touch it from the left or right, because this is not and can't be a secular issue, this is a question of promoting and expanding human rights and all that. All those who paint differently forget that both children or old and powerless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108825	Thank you, too. Five replicas. She's the first one. Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108826	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you say this is all about protecting human rights, thinking that we should spread the rights of same-sex partners. I can agree with you that we should think about protecting rights, but please consider whose rights through this law we need more protection, children's rights, children's rights, or the rights of equal couples. So we're talking about this in this relationship whose rights should be in one place. I think we, through this law, need first of all to protect the rights of the child's interests. Because it's a child that can't only be freely declared in this situation, it's isolated from its biological family, it's institutionalized and by deciding on this law, we're actually deciding on its fate, beyond its will. So, I'm just calling on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108827	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108828	Dear colleagues, don't say that. This is not about that at all, so this law defines who has the right to seek, not who has the right to gain. So, we do not estimate as parliamentary representatives or Minister Murganic who will be able to foster the child. By no means, God forbid it's up to us. There are evaluation teams, welfare centers, they're the ones doing it. But if you tell someone at the beginning, you can't because you wear a black hat on your head, then it's not an assessment, then it's discrimination, but if someone is told, you have a fundamental right of access to this institute, but you don't meet the law-defined conditions, which say you have to be psychosocially healthy, socially stable, economically you can answer that challenge, you have living conditions, then it's another pair of sleeves. Then it's an equal chance for everyone, but the conditions are set up in advance, it's called game rules, so, it's not about me being someone... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108829	Mrs. Petrievchanin Vuksanovic Irena.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108830	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, you are a good analyst and I have two questions, first question why this institute is missing from the Life Partnership Act, when it was in force, the liberal government, that is, was their government. And the second question, why all the time, these same-sex partners, whose rights no one wants to downplay, used as a political platform, when that left liberal option, did not, what it could have done, when it had to or didn't really want to worry about their rights, that left liberal option, but only through their backs actually wants to deny this good law by the ruling majority. But these are old political schemes, and I'm interested in your opinion on these two issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108832	Opinion is very simple, so if we were bad and foolish, don't be stupid. That government wasn't capable enough, what it was doing, it wasn't enough, I'm ashamed of what we did, but don't be ashamed of it tomorrow. The fact that you've been worse doesn't give you the right to be worse, to lead the country forward, not back, to open the windows, to open the door, to get the sun in, to let the light in, not to say what happened five years ago, because you won't get anywhere, because then you'll get what the HDZ government was doing 7 years ago or 15 years ago, or never the end of that party.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108833	And you were very clear, and now Mr. Steve Culey is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108834	Dear colleague Beus Richembergh you are doing this perfectly intellectually and for many who appear here, I will only ask one question simply. I'm a father, I hope you are too. To whom would you give a child for adoption, a normal couple, which is normal to me, husband and wife or two with gay come, naked butts who kick and sword in front of children Just yes or no, to whom [[Intruder Radin: Please watch out for.]] So I understand, to understand, that we don't wrap anymore, say it. [[Mr. Culey, mind your words, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108835	Comrade Culey, there's no answer for you, yes or no, you know why?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108836	Wait a minute, Mr. Richembergh, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108837	I'm sorry, there's no answer that and not because neither you nor I, I hope we don't meet any conditions to give our children a foster home, don't give God up for adoption, I hope you're as neat, good, caring and loving a parent as I hope you are. So, we're not you whose kids are gonna be fostered tomorrow or God forbid, God forbid what happens tomorrow, my parents aren't underage anymore, I don't think they're yours either, but it's about parents not deciding about it, it's about taking care of the child and the evaluation teams are making a decision that is and must be in the best interests of the child. So if that child does not have anyone else to host at that time, then there is no discussion about who is the color of the skin or sexual orientation, rather than what is offered as the most qualitative possible solution, where parent love or substitute love is offered to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108838	Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108839	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Beus, you've said well, the state needs to lead forward every day, and we need to talk about human rights every day, because once we slow down the fight for them, those who would like to limit them are quick. But how should a modern state regulate their relationship with its people, whether in harmony with development, with modernity, with what it sees before its eyes to happen in society, or to fit them into some traditional schemes of the 20th, 19th, 18th, or another century? Are we really going to be blind to what's happening in our reality and try to regulate relationships that were long ago in these places, or do we really need to see and what kind of people we have, what kind of relationships we have, what kind of family we have, what choices we have among people, and regulate exactly that, that's what's subject to regulation, not our ideals, our beliefs and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108840	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108841	My colleague Klisovic, thank you for asking. Of course, you know the answer. We should look ahead and Anticipat the future. We are facing very specific problems of the complete depopulation. Reductions in the number of children born, newborns, smaller and smaller families, and an increasing number of divorces. So that's what the others are meeting, but we can see now that there are those who are bitter against anything new, and those who are anticipating it, let's say the Protestant churches are on their Synods in '51. and '58. years approved, approved use of contraception. You know what the score is today? Protestant states have more newborn children than Catholics. Newborn children, Mr. Zekanovic, not from immigrants, but from total. So it's about being open, going to meet the problem, offering solutions, gathering, creating communities where there are children, whether they're equal or multiple, but giving a child the opportunity to grow up in such love so that tomorrow they can give that love to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108842	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Richembergh. Thank you very much. You'll have more chances because now Mr. Stier's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you said something that is true, which is that many of the democratic parties in Europe have gone towards, perhaps, this liberal, that liberal direction, or even to the left, liberal and that is so. However, what I would like to get to know you is the Centre, Wilfried Martinez, so the Centre of the European People's Party, saw it and thought it was a mistake, and that it should be interrupted, that it is bad for Europe and for Christian democracy to go to the left and that it is even bad for the European idea that even from a European level it imposes such liberal orientations. Well, maybe that was why when and within the European People's Party in Helsinki there were two candidates, one more conservative, one more liberal. The more conservative one got 80% of the votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108844	Answer, Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108845	Mr. Stier, I like to talk to you about these topics, because they are actually full of information and facts, but you know that the center you're talking about is just a tink-tank in the sea of the European People's Party, and that there are those who speak differently, and that means that they won't call the adoption and fostering of children in same sex couples, the liberal idea, but on the contrary, these couples believe you or not, they're telling you we're conservative, because we want to live in families, we want to have children, and you're saying that you're conservative, you're not letting us. What logic is that to you? So let it form, therefore, a family functionally from several members in which, among other things, it will save children who are difficult to adopt, hard to adopt, who have developmental difficulties, which are from such ethical groups that are hard to host, so either way, open up space for us to give love. I don't see that that would be liberal, but just the opposite, conservatively on the trail of strength... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108846	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic is waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108847	Thank you, dear Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108848	It's not a replica, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108849	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108850	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108851	Thank you. So when a law like this is passed, it must have one fundamental reason, a fundamental source, which is the best interest of the child. So when we talk about fostering, what's the best interest of a child? To get out of the institution, to find a home he doesn't have, for various reasons, and without his own guilt. The best interest is to find a home. Home, a place where he will be cared for, where he will be loved, where he will be raised, educated, doing all he can for that child. Now, you say you wrote a good law, and I believe you, but then ideology clouded your view, and you made a good proposal actually unacceptable. And why is he unacceptable? Because he's discriminatory. I'll try to explain to you now, dear Minister. You have denied this right, the right to apply at all to those who have created, concluded a life partnership or maintained an informal partnership. It's Mrs. Murganic, people, it's people and their basic feature is that they're people, and only after that, they're having some kind of sex, so they have some kind of sexual orientation, so they have some kind of skin color, so they're eye color, so they're either tall or low, but they're human. And you've denied these people any rights you've given to others. Why? I don't know. I don't know. There's no rational reason. There's no scientific, health, rational reason, it can only be irrational, that you can't stand these people, you just can't stand them, and you're enjoying your position as minister to propose a law in which you discriminate. Here's an example, there's a car accident, parents die, and kids, sisters and brothers only have relatives, and uncle lives in a life partnership, and he loves his children, and they love him, and he visits them at home, every Sunday they come to his partner, not you'd rather leave them in a home for unsettled children, but let your uncle arrange a new home for them. It's not only illogical, it's unusually cruel, it's cruel to such children. And I don't see any reason for such cruelty. In addition, this proposal of yours is illogical, and you know when it is, well the logic is, it's a science of opinion, of correct opinion, so when it's illogical, then it should still be brought into line with the laws of sound opinion because then it'll be more correct. You allow the foster parent to live alone, be the person who lives alone, and don't wonder which sexual orientation he is, and that's a good thing not to ask yourself, that's good, but if by chance through some life partnership he's shown to be gay orientations, then you won't let him do it. Once, yes, but a couple don't. I'm sorry, there's nothing to do with common sense. It can only have to do with the sick impatience of people of homosexual orientation. The answer to this amendment that this does not comply with the Constitution is incorrect and Mr. Schir here quoted the amended Constitution as saying that marriage is a man and woman's life union, but marriage has nothing to do with family, that's two different concepts, so that's what the vice president interpreted. Family doesn't have to come from marriage at all. A woman has a baby, she doesn't even want to admit who the father is, she doesn't want to lead the father, she and her children are family. A woman adopts a child and she and that adopted child are family. Grandma and grandson are family, no parents, they died no, unfortunately and Grandma lives with her grandchild, so whether they're family or not, and they don't come out of marriage. Therefore, do not confuse two things that are not to be confused. You ministers don't approach this in an unserious way like you approached when you entered that one family in one day, so you faked a child who was fostered to get the press there, so they could show you on TV, that kind of just promotion, I'm sorry, it's really untasty when it comes to child rights. And what children? So those who are the most vulnerable, most vulnerable, children who don't have a home, have to live in an institution, and you're taking pictures there or journalists instead of laughing at them by that strangely, incomprehensibly superficial approach to it, they're still showing you in the diary. You've got a lot better things to do, Minister. The number of adoptions, in 2017, was only 73 adopted children, at least in the last 10 years. From the home of Nazor that year, only one child was adopted, so think about it. Obviously, the laws are not good for us when it is so possible, obviously that there is something to do in these laws, so Mrs. Strenja Linic has a full right, so we are more protected by the laws of irresponsible parents than by abandoned children, so that is your job as a minister, not a single day to go to a foster family. Not only are you being discriminatory towards homosexual couples, but you are damaging these children to whom, this most vulnerable and every child who, because of these provisions of yours, will not find his home, even if it is two homosexual partners, but remains in a terrible institution, you ministers are particularly guilty to him by my taste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108852	Thank you. You have Mr. Track a few, three actually replicas. First, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108853	Comrade Stazić, here I was just called by one of my colleagues and asked, says ask my colleague Stazić, would he give his children, grandchildren, whatever you prefer to those you stand for or for whom this law stands. And the second question that would tell you now is that your predecessors from the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia are listening to you to hear how the follower of that party now uncompromisingly defends the rights of native minorities homosexuals, means here in foster care or tomorrow's adoption? Here, what do you think they'd say, so here's 30 years ago in the same room, in this room, or maybe in Belgrade somewhere?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108854	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108855	First I wouldn't give my child to anyone, I don't know if you'd give it to me. Children worship each other, and those children who ended up in a home are there without any guilt of their own, by accident, after a major life accident. And our job is to help them as much as we can help them. And I've never been a party member, so I don't know what party buddies would tell me, I don't know if it was you, so ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108856	Let's move on, let's play with those memberships now. Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108857	Thank you. My colleague himself spoke about the political motivation of critics of this law, and in this context, I did mention that they also consider this provision of the Constitution to be discrimination and that it is part of this cancer and political view, which is why they are partly attacking this. So what's political motivation? Of course I know how to distinguish these institutions, but if you think it's not that political motivation, anyway, here I am going to repeat it again, marriage is the life union of a woman and a man, it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Do you feel that such a provision is discriminated against, therefore, whether the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia discriminates or not, or accepts the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? On this basis, we can, of course, develop another debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108858	Thank you, time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108859	Yes, colleague Stier, rightly and very sincerely speaking of political motivation, yes, there is political motivation against the best interests of the child and that is what is terrible because political ideological motives do not allow you, do not give you, do not give you, allow you to protect the best interest of the child and allow you to take him home even in a homosexual family because he will be better there but whether or not you will be better or not, your political motivation is important to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108860	Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108861	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, let's say in the example in which you presented your uncle and nephew, I think, and I know that this nephew does not accept his uncle because he lives in the same-sex community, you claim the opposite. So you don't know that. Then you chase certain things about adoption and fostering, the only thing you said about foster parents is that the bad social picture is today's foster home, both because of their material status and because of age, and that the proposal for this law should be addressed both in the first and second readings. But one thing you forget, and I know that you took part in the debate about the law, I remember very well, in the Law of Same-Sex Communities when we talked about the same example, the article seems to me to be 23 when two same-sex partners have a child, a 16-year-old female child, if he dies or tragically ends that child actually goes to that same-sex partner. So he's not in any kind of biological relationship and he stays at his place and not with his relatives, which is just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108862	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108863	I really don't know if any concrete nephew accepts his homosexual uncle or not, if he's raised in one healthy way, then he'll realize that his uncle isn't guilty of his sexual orientation, but he's probably born with it, and then he'll accept it. Now, if he was raised in a completely fucked-up medieval environment like you're trying to advocate, then he probably won't. I advocate that this society not be medieval and fucked or primitive, but that it be turned to the future and that all people be viewed as humans, watched through this most important dimension that every human being has, which is humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108864	Mr. Stazic, now I have to tell you that you choose words when you talk about another representative, let's be patient with each other and let's not talk about which environment we are both from, just because we have different ideas. Today I am not giving any warning because I received a warning, today I cannot give a warning to others but we will now continue, Ms. Minister Nada Murganic will take the floor on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd just like to maybe give you some information because the incorrect numbers are deliberately stretching, so I think if it would be useful not to repeat themselves in further discussion, maybe now in time. Namely, here was the question of adoption, that certainly I am aware of the fact that now MPs differ from adoption but very often it is the way in which the child from the foster family stays with his adoptive foster parent, so I would say exactly that this thesis that I see now stretches publicly in the media space, public space, that our adoption falls drastically because the law is not good and that it is in some way my responsibility. In fact, we are working under the Family Law, which was passed in 2015, which prescribed all legal procedures leading to the withdrawal of parents' right to parental care. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have 380 children, of which legal assumptions for adoption have fulfilled 170 children aged 0 to 18, so all those other children, who really, let's just say in a simple dictionary, have no parents, for various reasons are living with their relatives and they neither want nor need to be adopted. So, of those 170 children, we can now talk and discuss. Of course, small children really get adopted very quickly and healthy children, and we must say that there are children who do not even want to be adopted from that group, but there are also children with whom potential adoptors are not too interested. In the register of potential adoptors, we have 1,300 potential adoptors, so, a lot, a lot more clearly, that this one is there, that this one is disproportionate. In 2017 107 children were adopted, in 2018 until the month of November, so, 10 months, by the month of November, 99 children were adopted. Thesis and title in the newspaper and the constant imputation from one institution was adopted by one child, the impression is that a child was adopted in the Republic of Croatia in that year. The adoption or adoption of parental care forever is one of the most responsible, but also the most traumatic decisions that can be made and certain that some times it would be a decision indeed, because these are final decisions, decisions that permanently break ties with their biological parents and their entire environment, there may be a situation where making the right decision may be made some times, but also some other circumstances, may, perhaps, make it difficult, judicial proceedings go beyond that, and then creating the impression that there is an appointment there and we agree all together that we need to work on these procedures because we are particularly young children too long in the institutions. So a little bit of these numbers should be more careful because that's why some other findings agree. So it's a family law that you've been very proud of, and then I don't know why you're criticizing those very provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108866	Thank you very much. Four replicas. One, that's these, no, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108867	Dear Minister, here's the Household Act, you're talking about adoption, you're a little out of the picture, and then I'm going to adopt. You said that adoption goes very slowly because it's a complex procedure, that it doesn't go wrong. Admit the system doesn't work. A potential adoptor can't wait ten years for a child to be adopted, and we have these situations. We have these situations, too, Minister. So I really know that the system is complicated and can't be wrong. But the system doesn't work, it doesn't work. Because if we have 10 times the demand of what we actually have children, so let's do it more, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, 10 times the demand, let's get these people who are currently available, let's adopt these kids or get out of their homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108868	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108869	I don't know now, pal, if you've understood me now, 1300 is an adult who would like to be adopted and 170 children. For 10 years someone has been waiting for adoption, it is also possible for those reasons where you say the system fails. I wouldn't exactly say, you know, that the system that carries the burden of our most sensitive groups, it's social care, we can talk this way publicly that it doesn't work. Since 118 of our Centers for Social Care doesn't work, I don't know how many hundreds of institutions, I don't know how many users regularly receive any financial compensation every day neatly, every month on the same day. How can we say that those who are sometimes the first to help our citizens don't work, and sometimes the last to hold their hands when they die and can't accept it? Every system [[Intruder: Thank you]] There are opportunities and opportunities and obligations for improvement. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108870	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108871	Thank you very much, dear minister, if anyone can talk about adoption in this House, I am the one who adopted two children and don't brag about numbers because the figures are completely different. Yes, every year 100 children are adopted, but you forgot to say that 400 children remain unaccepted every year and stay in their homes, and every minute and every second of being in a home is bad for those children, you hurt those children emotionally because living in a family is completely different than living in a home. And if anyone knows that, I know it very well, and don't defend yourself here with that we adopted 100 children, what about those 400 we didn't adopt and you give an opportunity to those who wanted to adopt children. I was lucky to adopt but 1,400 people have no luck and we have so many children in our homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108872	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108873	So let's do it again, so from that number that you're talking to me about, so these are kids who have legal assumptions for adoption, but out of that 170 is for adoption. The difference between 230 children is those in their relatives' families in grandmothers, godmothers, relatives, aunts, older brothers and sisters who can't, don't or don't need to adopt. And we're talking numbers. You can criticize these figures and you have the right to do so, whether a lot of 107 versus 170 will always be one number of children who will never be adopted because they are either very sick or already at an age when they themselves express the desire not to want to be adopted. There's a repeat of that repair space and obligations but don't say other numbers all the time, it's not that hard to remember. So I'd like to repeat again, 170-terrestrial children, aged 0-18, ready to go. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108874	Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108875	... The available choice, publicly published, I let it be incorrect, I didn't put it together, I found it on the Internet, you could, if it's incorrect data, well it's not 76 but 107 was 2017. You could have denied it instead of playing the child in this family that day, you could have held a press conference and explained those figures, I think it would have been a greater benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're saying it's under the law of '15, so I don't know by which, if that law isn't right, so come on, suggest changing the law. Well, that doesn't mean that once the law is passed, it has to last forever. If all of us, we agree that there are too many foster children, not those in the brothers, sisters, aunts, relatives, but in the home, children for whom it would be much better to have them taken by a family, if they existed. If there are legal obstacles to this, we change these legal obstacles to God’s favor, so there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108876	Thank you. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108877	Thank you very much. You're saying we could have denied that number, so here I am, in these few minutes I keep repeating the same numbers, so here's someone who wants to hear what they want to hear. We were in the media, there were conferences, there were conferences, there were contacts, there were conversations and there were representatives of the Adopt Association, so it was present enough in the media, but I agree, as you looked at in those media that day on the day of the world's child's right for me and you didn't want to look at that beautiful family that opened its doors 20 journalists and 20 cameras to talk about that fostering. If you think the cameras are going behind the politicians, then they're boasting, so here's what you're doing, so let's let the media and the people decide what they're going to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108878	And finally Mrs. Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108879	I wanted to ask you something else but I'm actually going to say that I was very skeptical when I saw the minister that she went to the family... It was a little strange for me, maybe it was different in the media even deliberately interpreted but then when I saw you and knowing the British family that the difficult fates were behind these two children who were with them and when I saw the reaction of all the other foster parents who were overjoyed because they thought they presented what should actually be one foster family I realized that this message was positive for those who wanted to understand it that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I repeat again, you're talking about children who aren't adopted here, but you have to understand, you have to understand, and I think you should say that all those children who are not in their homes have not met all the conditions for adoption. And that the biggest problem with the judiciary is that it's too slow to take care of those who couldn't care for it so that the children could adopt. Second, they are mostly children who have become difficult to adopt children, Roma children and children older The age that those adoptors who've been waiting for 10 years don't want, they want a child who's just been born. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108880	Time. Here you go, Madam Minister, will you? Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate today on foster care is a very personal and emotional topic for me because raising two children who have been in a home is very clear to me what it means for them and what it means to be in a home every minute, every second, and what it means to be in a family and to grow up and live in a family. Of course adopting and fostering is not the same but has the same goal of providing children with love, security at home, attention, and safe growing up. The legal proposal can only be discussed in this way but I invite you to look at this law on the other hand, which should only be answered one question, do you want children without adequate family care to grow up in homes or families? And that's crucial to this law, let's remove all these ideological stories, but the question is whether we want to give these kids a chance to live in a family of same-sex, multiple, single, but in a family and that's what the goal is and there are, all our discussions are going in that direction. It is now possible for you to allow more boys and girls in your home today to grow up outside of your homes, in families that will give them love and care for them and create an incentive environment that will allow them to grow up into people who will contribute and live and make things happen in this society. In this debate, I'm afraid we've lost one thing, and it's the children's interest, and this left side, maybe this right side, this right side, is when we're talking to you, on your part, but we just wanted to warn you that in this Law of Ministers, you've put on a cowardly egg and that because you haven't solved it in time, before the law came into the process, instead of the interests of children, you're developing now various ideological discussions. As he has already told you today in the replica, this Law is politically entrenched, because it is only there to satisfy individual ideological interests of HDZ. The proposed Law should take care of children, and in fact take away the right work of Croatian citizens who are guaranteed the Constitution. I don't understand the logic that it's better for children to grow up in institutions than in families, just because that family is different. Minister, you and HDZ want girls and boys without proper family care, to prevent them from developing and growing up in families. Better any family than home, and it was supposed to be your backbone and light motive when you wrote this Law. People, relationships and circumstances change, but it seems to me that the minister prefers taking care of the village rather than the custom. Of course there are some good things in this law. I welcome the increase in work fees and the efforts made by all foster parents and the Minister's intention to increase the number of foster parents, but here, the path to good intentions can sometimes lead to the wrong path, because the idea of enabling foster parents to professionalise and be an occupation can lead to major problems in the foster system. The idea that whoever has three protégés becomes a professional foster parent, and I wonder what when he loses one protégé, will he stop being a professional foster parent? And certainly, he'll get another one, what if he can't get another one? And it certainly won't lead to us having more foster parents in Dalmatia or in the city of Zagreb, because tourism also carries its own, its own tribute, and, you should have found another way to stimulate people to become foster parents. There are many things in this Law that should have been resolved, perhaps in a different way, and that is the question of the Centre for Social Care, the questions of the Agency for which you now want to set them up in all the Countys, which I see the possibility of the HDZ in all these Countys, instead of setting up agencies in four or five parts of Croatia to do so instead of these county agencies. In this law, apparently good intentions have hidden behind these things that I can't really approve of. And where do you get the right to ban one group in Croatia that is what it is, which is gay couples or homosexual couples, from being equal in rights, as they are in obligations. And most of all, I'm angry that you dare by this law to actually say that a homosexual person is not a good foster parent and is not a good parent. You cannot say that by law because the law cannot recognize who a good parent is and who a bad parent is. I come from an academic community where in the academic community things are very clear, if you have research, if you have evidence, then eventually you have to accept it. You have a petition and an opinion of over 200 experts who have signed an open letter in which they say very clearly, and that's what the whole world says, I don't know why you don't agree, that the sexual orientation of parents has nothing to do with their ability to be parents. The letter was signed by people who have worked their whole lives as doctors, psychologists, social workers, psychiatrists, psychotherapists, and points out to you and colleagues from MOST who are also on their way, I'm surprised at Mr. Petrov, who is a psychiatrist, and he should know it better than me who am a hematologist, who say it's better to have a child, to stay at home, than to give them to some homosexual couple and to be raised by that homosexual couple. If you do not want to listen to the opposition, you do not want to listen to the experts, so try to think about what in 5 or 10 years someone will talk about you as a minister who has made it impossible for a certain part of Croatian citizens to have the same rights as other citizens. It's discrimination, it has nothing to do with orientation at all, but it's a question of the rights that enables them. And in the end, they'll probably not have a lot of HDZ colleagues, and when they don't have arguments, then they'll ask why you didn't do it in 2015. We haven't changed the Law, I'm sorry about that, there are a lot of things we didn't do back then, but you can't get out in 2015, because then we can start talking about 2009, when HDZ was in power, when there were 20 billion deficits in the budget when it was a matter of funding, when you frozen the pensions to the citizens, it was one of the worst measures you could have taken, but here we never asked that, but since you're asking us about 2015, we'll ask you about both 2009 and the rest. If you have a chance to have from your coalition partner the amendment, adopt that amendment and do not discriminate people to do the work before Christmas, at the time of Christmas to work the good part, it is time to advent, do a good deed and allow all citizens to have equal rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108882	Thank you very much, Mrs. Strenja Linic asked, wait, wait, wait, but you've already got three You've got three already. [[I don't have a back.]] That's why we're moving on, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108883	Dear Minister, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to begin, my fellow Stiera is gone, but he has taken the Constitution in his hand twice and quotes Article 62, she takes it into the hands of the Constitution, I've done it to the referendum, so I'm looking for item 2 and I see he's gone. So here we are for 5 years, so the Croatian Parliament is not able to print an updated constitution, we have an old edition of the Constitution where article 62 is by old, not that marriage is a community of women and men. So what do we expect from our society if the Croatian Parliament is unable to print 100 of these books. For travel to Finland there is Norway where it is, and for the Constitution there is no. So vice president of the assembly, service, please, if you need me here, I'll finance if you don't have the money, let the new example of the Constitution be printed because the Constitution isn't complete, it's not complete, please I don't know if my colleagues have a new one, and I don't have one, and I don't think anyone, colleague Bauk, has one, neither do you, same old, so bravo. [[I'll pass on.]] We heard beautiful here I would say sermons of love, fellow Beus spoke only love, empathy, emotion, that's all that matters, it's important to love, it's important that love, whatever it means, whoever couldn't quantify it, and then listen to fellow Mrssic finally he talks about science. And that's where we came in. Science. I'm for scientific access to everything, really, and I got on the mail a lot and scientific research and papers and studies, I can quote here one of the Texas universities of New family structure study and says here's what he says. Among other things, a study showed that 12% of adults whose parents had homosexual experience are considering suicide while only 5% of children raised in heterosexual families, 40% have a greater tendency to cheat partners than 13% from heterosexuals, 28 people are unemployed at 28% to 8% from heterosexuals, 19% from psychotherapy compared to 8% of these and sexually transmitted diseases have 40% compared to 8% of these others. So, it's science, it's not just this, now I could mean to you to list emails, read studies, scientific research and try to support what's important. So, scientists have said countless times, and they'll talk more and more, vice president of the assembly how nice you listen to me right here, it's kind of hard for me to say Don't get in my word, this one, what would happen if everyone got in my word? [[No, I'm sorry I can't pollemize with you, that's all.]] Of course. [[I have to listen to you.]] So that the best place for children to grow up was to have a heterosexual family, either an out - of - wedlock or a marriage. It's scientific and then you can gather 200 scientists and quasi-scientists e we've collected 2,000, I have 2,000 signatures from the academic community, doctor, academics who are for this second approach, 2,000, that's 10 times more than you, and where you are now, 10 times more signatures I have from you, the people of your fellow doctors, university professors, who are this second approach. We heard Stazic, he talked about the dark Middle Ages, so my people then the Zagreb cathedral which is a beautiful and masterpiece of human genius was created in the dark Middle Ages, so much good came into the dark Middle Ages. And I think that something darker was this communism where exactly one party like the Socialist Party of Yugoslavia or the Union of Communists of Croatia held everything under one steel paw, and today the followers here, which is absurd, I said, defends gender ideology, and their predecessors would put them in gulags and prisons. But I have to look back on HDZ a little bit, and this is also fantastic actually, here's the HDZ now becoming a party of Christian Democrats, bravo, good for you. And then I wonder what the pattern of behavior is, the Istanbul Convention, but we won't be Democrats, we won't even be sovereigns when it's a question and when Austrians, Italians, Australia, the United States, Israel say we won't, we will be, but here we will. Then I'm looking at some pattern of behavior that's on Plenkovic's mind, so I get it. Well, actually, if this law had come from the EU and looked different, we would have adopted it. So only today, HDZ, means Prime Minister Plenkovic and you, as a ministry, are working according to Brussels or maybe Berlin, and that's that. And it's actually fantastic that now this is a bit of a schizophrenic situation. At one point, you brought in a controversial document that imposes gender ideology, you defended it here, you defended it, and now you have one document that's contrary, so make a deal. Are you Christian Democrats or not? I'll take off my hat here to SDP he's been consistent, they've been liberals and others, they're for gender ideology, and I don't know where you are or what you are anymore. You're not the only party who doesn't know where you are or what you are, but right now you're the promoter, you're the one who's proposing this law. And now I'm very curious about the following laws, about the law of abortion, for example, what's it going to be? Whether there will be one liberal law as Minister Kujundzic would say, we are for the protection of life, but we are for the first women, but it does not go together, that is when our president says in one sentence, I am against the Marrakech Agreement, but I am also for him. So, make a deal, whether or not you are, whether you are a Christian democracy or not. However, many will now be easier here. Only now are the problems of the HDZ liberals, how they will vote in favour of a law that does not allow homosexual couples to foster children. And when we talk a little bit about this famous article where we left out same-sex communities registered under the Life Partnership Act, which would be if we put in this Law for example. Yeah, and we didn't put it on, here it is, I'm happy with it, that a group of friends can adopt a baby, a crew with a towel or a white, a crew sitting on a crate, a umbrella in front of a store and drink a beer, we could put it on, we could put that on d.o.o. In which love he said he would be a colleague of Beus, a great love, that they too could adopt, what if they loved in that company all and if there were enough, so anyone could always be someone around that child to be fostered or perhaps could be a craft, should not be d.o.o. And it can't be j.d.o., so it can be a mountaineer too. So, you're getting into this story, it's just, we stick to science, science is clear, kids need mom and dad or dad and mom, whatever order it is. Of course, all kids don't have mom and dad, like all parents don't have kids, but that's the imperative we have to go to. Al, here, I'm sorry, parents must have children, as everyone in the community must have, have no descendants. So, the lapsus, but here we have to look a little bit at what the minister said about adoption even though it's not a topic, but it's a little bit of an open subject. 107 adopted, 170 a year, so that's about 60 a year not adopted, and then cumulatively created that beautiful number of children. My colleague Mrsic noticed well. And then we can show it, yeah, it's with uncles, uncles, aunts, brothers, sisters, but that number grows and eventually the system swallows them because they're 18 and they're on the market and they don't need a foster home anymore. I'll be open, maybe I was too rough when I said the system didn't work. But it really doesn't work the way it should. It works, not as much as those who would like to adopt, or you said, talk about adopting children and those who would like to be adopted or adopted. And it can do much better, you're aware. Well, sometimes you say, and that number is nice to hear from any minister, even from you, so it's not a good situation, be a little self-critical, because it's not good. I don't have an analysis as big as you, but I really know, I'm going to say, unfortunately, a lot of young couples who want to become parents through the adoption process, but I can't because the system doesn't work well enough, and you need to be aware of that, it doesn't work well enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108884	Like I said, I can't paralyze with research, but you have six replicas, so you're going to paralyze them further. First Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108885	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Zekanovic, I'll just have those few sentences of yours replicated. In fact, you said that we Parliamentarians don't have a Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that marriage is a community of women and men. I must tell you that we have all received the Constitution with an additional flyer in which it stands, with a book after the constitutional decision of 14 January said that it is an article. The 62nd century 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says marriage is a community of women and men, I suppose, to rationalise the costs that were made so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108886	You didn't know that, did you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108887	My colleague, I dropped my flyer, here it is, I'm sorry, I don't have a flyer, but here, I'll copy yours to rationalize the costs so the Parliament doesn't press, so we'll put it inside. My fellow Members, dear and esteemed, I would still remain in my remark and request. Transfer I think we can have this little book, and then these incompletes, let's give it to some schools, so let's have some kids, even if... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Let them learn a little. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108888	We often change the Constitution, then now. Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, you've said a lot, just two things. So, the right of same-sex communities and thus the rights of same-sex persons, said Mr Beus, in the Western world, in Western civilization, which you often like to call on, are no longer world-sexed issues, these are human rights issues, these are not issues of ideology, left and right, this is a question of human rights, and Western societies, and I also believe that Croatian society rests on two documents from the 19th century, this is the Declaration of American Independence and the French declaration of human and citizen rights that begins with it, so all people are born equal and that all people have equal inalienable rights and I don't know why you, Mr. Lawovic, who you are a convinced Christian, mocking love. Why do you mock love, you have a New Testament, you have a letter from St. Paul to the Corinthians, so read, I believe you know what he says about love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108890	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108891	So don't blame me, Vice President, but I will respond to any more or less replicas. I have nothing against love, of course, and I know that you want this country well in your own way, but we don't really understand each other. Look, when I look west, everything that comes from the West isn't bad, but it's not all good that comes from the West either. So some things are good, some are bad. You have one term called decadence. You have some societies that are decadent. We've had them in the past, we've got them today. And what you do, for example. Today it's happening in Canada on these birthrights etc., I don't think it's good, I... where a man of 60 or 50 pretends to be a girl of 4 years and he is adopted by some foster family and is playing with his half-brother and half-sister of 5 years of age. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's good, I think it's decadent and it gives bad, but it's not all bad from the West, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108892	Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108893	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, you called in your debate on the so-called so-called The Texas study of Mark Regnerus. I must warn you that the almost universal academic community has challenged this research because of a whole series of methodological failures. The last one was warned by the Zagreb Psychological Society, but it was rejected by, say, the American Sociological Organisation. In this long-term study, it cannot speak at all about the welfare of children from same-sex families primarily because of the 85 subjects that Regnerus had actually self-classified as same-sex families on the basis of whether parents were or did not have the same sexual experience, only 2 persons, two subjects were actually from families who were truly same-sex. So any conclusions on the welfare of children from the same-sex families simply do not appear in this study, this research is disputed. So calling only on him is so-called. Cherry picking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108894	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108895	I've set one example, we can do it later, I'll set you up with more examples, but here I'll turn the other way, or I'll replicate you the way you do to me. We've had Scandinavian breeding institutes, which is exactly the story you've been talking about for years, for decades, pushed, promoted, and gone, shut down because it's been proven that everything that's been done is a fake. And this whole birth story, so today it's based on materials, on the quasi research of that institute that no longer exists. And this has been challenged by all and liberals, those who have begun to think and think but today simply do not want to hear them, of course and conservative experts. So, I'd like to talk about science here exclusively, but let's talk about real science, let's talk about actual scientific research and not some kind of signature that someone collects on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108896	Nothing, I'm gonna have to send you a biography, that's what I had to say. Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Zekanovic, you were talking about how not everything... The Middle Ages was so bad, you mentioned the Zagreb cathedral. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I must deny you, namely, after the earthquake that took place in Zagreb in 1880, the Zagreb cathedral was torn down and on the foundations of the existing Gothic building was built a neobiotic Zagreb cathedral which is primarily the fruit of the late 19th and early 20th century, so that the thesis does not stand for you. And I'm telling you this as an example because, as this thesis does not stand for you, and as you've abused the facts here, it's the best and most accurate expression you've ever used elsewhere, so you've, for example, allowed yourself something that's totally unacceptable to me, which is to compare the life union of two people who are still governed by law by the Constitution with a team who drinks beer in front of the store, you're ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108898	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108899	Well, my colleague... So gothics, neootics, you're great at this argument, so, on the remains of a gothic which means corresponds to what I said built neotic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I'm sorry. I want to list maybe some other examples of buildings in Croatia and the world, maybe I won't make a mistake so I can prove to you that they've been working, means really building fantastic buildings in that period. You want some other scientific achievements for that reason? Ma colleague Grbin you actually want to ignore that other one period that you, according to which you have sympathy and that's the period of communism where, in which you've been standing and, obviously, I don't know, as if you're his worshiper, I don't know now what he's doing, where you're trying everything that's worth it and what humanity has produced and is worth ignoring in that one Middle Ages and everything that's wrong and it's happened in the first half of the 12 centuries that you want to favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108900	Thank you. It's time, Mr. Zekanovic. Now Mr. Culey will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108901	Dear colleague Zekanovic, you're right about a lot of things, but this whole story, it's a beautiful story about something that's strange to me that could go under one, an outside hungry man, and inside a poor man. What he used to be, he's doing it now, he just changed his name. Since the old ugly PR, and now he's "gay". I'm as old as the adolescent and I've already stepped up, admired Michael Jackson, admired George Michael, Freddie Mercury but I'm stuck on Michael Jackson because he can be both a beautiful and attractive and wonderful artist but he's always what's in the depths of the soul, he loves little boys, likes to sleep with them, likes to touch them and wake up next to them whether they have mom or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108902	What was I going to say to the PR like pi ar's? Here, if you want to answer, you can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108903	Comrade Culey, you've been in your style. So, what happens behind four walls of someone's, that's everyone's intimacy, and I'd stay on it. However, I would say here that it is not a matter of sympathy now, of unsympathy, but of a scientific approach. Let's really talk science, let's see what's good and what's bad, which would actually, I'd answer like this. In the debate, always the same sex, gender minorities, same-sex marriages, or communities. When you tell someone who's defending such a pattern of behavior, so here's your kids to be gays, mostly being a backup and why you're saying it most of the time. I don't want to, because deep down, no one wants to do it for their child. If it's normal behavior, if it's all expensive and acceptable, then I think anyone could actually wish and stimulate their children at any time from the youngest age in their family to set it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108904	Thank you. Thank you. So the opposition doesn't agree with each other, I agree. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, you mentioned the schizophrenic situation here, so you said that we from the SDP that we are as followers of the Communist party, we advocate gender ideology, which in the Communist party would haunt us for that, then I can only conclude that you are in a schizophrenic situation, because you are in favour of a communist policy when it comes to gender ideology. Because right here, you're barfing for the attitudes of the communist system, and basically, I think you have sympathy for that system when you fight so hard or you'd send us to the Gulag that we think is a little different from you. Here, I mean it's really a schizophrenic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108906	Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108907	I'm telling you... I didn't say it, but I was saying what would happen to you in some of the times before, so it was taken out of context. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And no, I do everything that this party has done, I despise it, means I despise absolutely everything, but what I've stood for and I'm going to stand for, and as I've been raised, it's the teaching of the Catholic Church, and it's always been the same and consistent. Is it sometimes a totalitarian regime that respects, for example, a red star and some kind of criminal, like now not to mention, did he have any good things? Yeah, but... They weren't right, because what would then be a relationship to birth minorities was wrong to understand each other, but this general attitude in, for example, this Law, why not? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was, in fact, was he?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108908	... Now we've exhausted the ideological debate, and now Mr. Bauk will speak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108909	No, it's just starting. As far as ideological debate is concerned, this is primarily an ideological question, and I don't intend to hide it at all, that's how it is. In 2014, the Croatian Parliament passed the Life Partnership Act of the same sex. When I made this Law, as one of the proposings, I set up two points to be held in the making of this Law. One was that this community would not be called marriage, because it was not possible under the Constitution, and neither was it intended, although it is sometimes desired, it was more for mobilising purposes in that referendum in 2013, and the other was that the community would not have the right to adopt children. That was 2014. In explaining this Law, I said that this is a democratic compromise that will try to reconcile the opposite positions that are in tension in Croatian society, and as you see four years after the adoption of this Law, this Government and the previous Government, the sixth month that has already lasted, in many of the laws they have proposed, included persons in the life partnership, they have included life partners, for example in the Criminal Law, or in the Law of Criminal Procedure in the grace of non-compliance, then perhaps in the Law of Inheritance, the Law of Personal Name, and so on. However, the subject of adoption, and then fostering, was not opened. However, in 2014, I will remind myself, MP Branko Vuksic, has submitted an amendment to the Life Partnership Act, allowing, or as the right of the living community, the adoption of children, and I, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, had to refuse the amendment. Therefore, because of this provision, there is no question of the whole of the Law and the whole series of rights that the Law on Life Partnership is a person of the same sex, persons who want, therefore, to conclude the life union and to exercise all other rights, so that what happened in Slovenia does not happen, that the whole of the Law be brought down in a referendum. That amendment was received by my memory, I haven't been able to look at the archives yet today, I should be looking for a recording because it's not in the record, it's got 20 votes. The amendment proposed by the CNS if it is not withdrawn or the amendment we have proposed will receive more than 20 votes, will not receive 76 according to my modest assessment to be accepted, but this statement will also show a certain step forward in raising awareness of the rights of persons living in a life partnership, to ensure that their family is, as I say, complete. During the debate on this Act, I explained then to MPs Mireli Holly, who also advocated that it be recognised in the Law, that of 28 members of the European Union + Norway, Switzerland, Iceland, as members of this European space, the Law that the Government then proposes, Croatia will be, as I have expressed myself in the golden environment. Eight countries at that time had a solution that was on the trail, and 12 countries had no such solution. And I said one day we'd probably discuss full equalization when other countries did. In the meantime, she made Germany and that's why I think the time has come, after four years,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108910	And more of them, Greece, and more of them, not just Germany
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108911	And more, thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the time to discuss it. Well, like I said, there won't be 20 votes now. There'll be 40, 50, OK. She'll be as long as it takes. I hope that in other EU countries, the wheel will not go back, and I hope that Croatia will not have that wheel back either. It's about ideology. So the question here is whether we consider a kind of community of life unworthy, so unworthy that they come into contact with children that it's better for those children to stay at home. And that's the question here, that's ideology, there's no big deal about this, some big philosophy. So, this debate is actually a symbolic nature debate, because it says it in law or not, the European Court of Human Rights will interpret it as it has previously interpreted it, which is that it will punish the state if their courts are discriminated against by persons because they are in a life partnership. And this is therefore a school example of discrimination, because if a citizen of the Republic of Croatia can exercise a right when he is single and can't because he is no longer single but has entered into a life partnership, he has concluded a life partnership and this is a decisive reason for the court to deny him any right, it is clearly discrimination and if that verdict does not already fall in the Constitutional Court, he will fall in the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, this is an opportunity and this is what Mr. Zekanovic correctly noticed to HDZ that they show to their own people that they are slightly larger democracies, whatever that means, and to those from the HNS that they show their own that they are slightly larger liberals... Okay, thank you. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So, the opportunity for these HNSs to show now that they're like slightly larger liberals. If they want, of course, to obstruct the adoption of laws, they can only do so so that they are not in the hall, and this is that they will vote with abstention so that they will be given to the Constitutional Court it is an ideal, ideal extraction of them and Prime Minister Plenkovic. And they know it both ways, I mean everybody knows it, but that's the way it should be, that's the way to say it. So as to the question of whether you would like your children to be fostered in the same - sex family, the question is a little wrong. So the right question would be if it had to happen, and then all the assumptions that would rather, if your child had stayed in your home or had been fostered by a family or a life partnership. I'd have to pick this other one, not stay in the dorm. And as for whether she prefers to be fostered in a family where a husband beats a woman or in which a woman loves another woman, she prefers to be in a family where a woman loves a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108912	Thank you very much, and for that critical part and for that friendly autocritical part, both of them were great. And now you have a replica of one of Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108913	Dear colleague, you're wrong. This is not an ideological question. The ideological question is, for example, when we decide on tax and tax policy and define whether to give tax relief to all citizens or to those who are richest, that is an ideological question. This is a question of human rights and this is a question of civilization, and if it wasn't an ideological question, it would show you the following data. When we look at countries in which a pair is allowed, then they are countries like Ireland, for example, the party in the order of the European regiments to which the HDZ belongs is in power. Germany Angela Merkel European Pupci, Austria Sebastian Kurtz European Pupci, Norway, Denmark, etc. Great Britain hasn't been shot, but they're conservatives, for none of these countries, this wasn't an ideological question, but this is a question of human rights, this is a civilization issue, and I think you're You were wrong when you said this was ideology. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108914	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108915	I'll take a friendly review, this one you only said, you listed the parties where HDZ belongs, I don't think they belong there, but it doesn't matter, so as far as they need to work for a long time to belong there, some clues in that direction are seen but they usually take two steps forward and step back, I hope that once they come to that level that they belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108916	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas, but Mr. Peja Grbin will speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108917	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when they adopted a constitution in the United States, of course, that they could not predict everything that would bring them the future, and indeed only 2 years after the constitution was adopted one of the most significant legal and political documents in American history, so-called "the Constitution". Bill's Charter of Rights, there Bill of Rights knows anyone who has at least once watched an American film as much political or legal terminology as in almost every one of these films has been invited to the first amendment. It's that famous amendment that guarantees freedom of speech. However, among these 10 amendments that draw up the Charter of Rights, we have one far more important to me and that is the ninth amendment. And the ninth amendment says that these rights listed in that Charter are not all rights, people possess other rights, citizens have other rights which, at the time that this document was adopted, may not have occurred to anyone. And this very document, and this amendment, the ninth amendment allows the United States of America to enable their countries to make them, enables their courts to create a new set of human rights over the years, and what in the 1900s may have been a criminal offence, today represents something that people should be allowed to do, allow, and which does not endanger anyone. You mentioned that Communism went to prison for homosexuality, not only in communism, but in capitalism. One great mathematician, Alan Turing, who was also significant in the field of the fight against Nazism in World War II because, based on his actions, it was possible to break Nazi codes, after World War II, because of his homosexuality, and in his country, in his Great Britain he was challenged. It's only today 50, 60 years after it happened that he fully understands the size of his genius and today he's getting the awards he was supposed to get in 1950. Unfortunately, he didn't get them, unfortunately, he was under pressure, unfortunately, that pressure didn't hold and he killed himself. As much as this man, if there were no crimes of society towards him, could have given to his society. A lot, but unfortunately, it's not. And today when I listen to this debate, no matter what the debate about the Household Act is, it's come to something else. And in this House, I've heard, an awful lot of homophobia and homophobic expressions. I've heard speeches about them, about those, about others. Dear colleagues and colleagues, whether you accept that this provision, as proposed by the Amendment, should be entered into the Household Act or not, in certain languages and in certain words, should be abstained. In addition, in today's debate, I also heard calls for traditional values, I heard about how we should return to what was good, that the Middle Ages did not bring us bad things, but also a lot of good things, so I was free and found an article from the 2013 Morning List, from November 2013, therefore, since 5 years ago, which was called Experts broke 10 of the most common myths about gay marriages. And I'll be free to read something in that article. Under these 4 that traditional family make up mom, dad and kid and that's the only natural sustainable model. Dr. Crescent. Tea Škokić, a senior scientific associate at the Institute of Ethnology and Folklorics, said the following, says, an insight into the ethnographic structure of Croatian traditional features of marriage and family shows that the family once included many more members than today's nuclear family, and children were raised by older children or older women, not father and mother. The marriage was on the border of pedophilia, we are talking about old Croatian traditions, because young girls almost married girls, in some parts and in the principle of kidnapping. For many years, couples in rural areas have lived unmarried, and there have been trial marriages in which a woman first had to prove her fertility in order to marry at all. The nuclear civil family and the model of courting children, which today, although we continue to practice less and less, have been imported from the Protestant West by colleagues Zekanovic, and are here in full sense, watch the irony now, live only in socialism. So I think, says Dr. Skokic, every invitation to tradition was a lost argument in advance, and today it was an awful lot to call on tradition. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as has been said many times so far, foster care is a way of providing a social service aimed at protecting users of this service, so the goal is to protect the child who will be fostered. This is not adoption and regardless of the views we have on adoption, regardless of what I am talking about in the adoption of both the Family Law and the Life Partnership Act, and I also have clashed with my colleagues because I felt that we should take this step further, here we are not talking about adoption, here we are talking about fostering, here we are talking about providing a certain service and you are at this moment, limiting the circle of persons who can provide this service, not only to violate Croatian law in that part called anti-discrimination law, not only to violate the right of the Council of Europe in the part which my predecessor, colleague Bauk, was talking about, but also to violate EU law, because you simply restrict the provision of services on the basis of someone's sexual orientation. If you look at the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, you will understand that it is forbidden. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I deeply disagree with all those who claim this is an ideological issue. This is not an ideological question, this is a question of combating discrimination, this is a matter of protection of human rights, this is a question of child rights. I deeply believe that the fact that one of us in HDZ, SDP, Most or another party should not affect how we treat human rights. I'm extremely sorry that I'm obviously in that opinion of myself wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108918	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. Let's go with the next debate. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today, as well as the last time, in our first reading, we are discussing one aspect of this Law, this aspect is essentially crucial, not because, as some here have said, an ideological question because I agree with my colleague coat of arms, I don't think it's an ideological question. I think it's about the fact that by denying the possibility of fostering children with same sex couples, first of all, children's rights are being violated, and that's what's crucial, that's the measure of what we're talking about today. Then the rights of same-sex couples were violated and thus the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was violated because if we adopt such a law, it would simply not be all our citizens equal, it would not. I wish those who said today were right that there was no need for explicit introduction of the affirmative provision into this law because it is not the subject because, of course, as some today say, same-sex couples have the right to do so just so, it hasn't happened yet. But is it not the fact that there is a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia based on sexual orientation, in fact in some way condemnation and failure of that idea and that argument? In fact, the fact is that there are systematic obstructions and systematic discrimination in the process of seeking foster care solely on the basis of sexual orientation, which is why this lawsuit exists, this lawsuit will end today or tomorrow with some verdict and that verdict will not go into favour of the Republic of Croatia. That's me, I won't trivialize it with an idea to bet on it, but I'll tell you it's my opinion. I wouldn't prolong this debate because I think it's been going on for a long time and there's a lot that's already been said in it. The positions that we will highlight by voting on this law I think are already really busy. And I'm not sure I can change, however, I'd like to say this. The sight and fear of LGBT parenting is not justified. It is neither justified nor morally justified nor scientific, regardless of what some today quoted studies that may speak differently but those studies are in the academic community both in Croatia and globally, all disputed. A fellow coat of arms spoke of it with one great deed. I also made it very clear in the replica of my colleague Zekanovic that this study, considered one of the fundamental arguments in most ultraconservative circles, this famous Texas study, is disputed, it methodologically does not prove and justify and does not justify what is done in the conclusions. It is up to us to be responsible, it is up to us to really lead our country to a future based on science and not on fears and to express myself, perhaps more in the style of fellow Vučetic, in the shadows of the wall of Plato's cave. I must also say that the same category includes a hate campaign and fear which primarily affects children, at the end of the day, against children and then LGBT persons, led by some radical and fundamentalist organisations in Croatia. So, to call the amendment that he proposed to HNS in diabolical and to express lies and hatred against children and against LGBT persons is simply unacceptable, I mean that more than that, and that is a broader topic which here may not make sense today, but when such things represent one foundation that can only be described as a foreign agent because that trust is completely managed by and all of its decisions are approved and the owners of property ultimately by another organization with some ideological agenda from another country, so it can only be called a foreign agent, co-workers and colleagues, there is no other name. So when such organizations, when they are campaigners of hatred and fear, we must be aware that it is our duty to protect our citizens from it and to deny their lies. It is simply our responsibility and from this place I can only say that if this law does not fully emancipate children, so I do not think that it is cowardly for them to move to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia more than the HNS who is talking about sending it to the Constitutional Court, claims that they did not support that law, so their members who have raised their hands for it in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it is simply not true, it is a shame. I agree entirely with this decision to ultimately send this to the assessment of constitutionality, to avoid responsibility and that it is a complete, political cowardice and a lack of vision and a lack of responsibility and something that is unworthy of the people who serve and who have been chosen to lead this country even though they have issued several times the will of voters, that is what I mean by HNS. But I can't support such a law, and I don't think anyone with a sense of responsibility to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia has any argument that such a law supports, unfortunately, it's a key provision of this law. This law has many others I agree with, which I think are good but this simply ruins the essence of the law. I can't for this law nor be abstention as I was in the first reading because it's, once again I want to say and with that I'll end up, it's really not an ideological question, it's not a question like my colleague Grbin said, do you think a tax should be a flat war or should be progressive, it's an ideological question. This is a question of whether you respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? This is the question do you think, do you believe when the Constitution says they're all equal? Do you believe that children really need to be allowed to have the right to a family, that it is really better to have children in a happy family than at home? That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108920	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for this debate. Next debate, dear colleague of Ines Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108921	.../The speaker turned off... which should be fixed and therefore I will now say at the end of this debate which amendments I have submitted. So, in conversations, in a broad discussion with foster parents, in art. 15. We will ask to change a point that says that it should be a traditional foster home for a minimum of 6 months before it becomes his profession. Traditional foster parents themselves feel that one little longer experience is needed, and that should be a minimum of 3 years, after which it will become a real profession. So, in this way, we would avoid situations if foster parents appeared immediately after becoming traditional foster parents, asking for foster care as an occupation because the aim is also primarily to achieve compensation and application of pension and health insurance, and we want to avoid any suspicion that someone is doing it just out of money. After that, I will propose, and I have proposed Amendment 2 which speaks of crisis foster care. So, crisis foster care is important except for those we listed as forms. This is a situation where in the middle of the night you will be housed in a 9-month-old foster family and a preschool child or an adolescent who has suffered a terrible trauma in his family where you have to have properly profiled age-old crisis foster parents and for this reason we add to the article. 23, we suggest adding a new item that reads, crisis foster care, or users of temporary accommodation in crisis situations, accommodation is organized into prepared traditional foster families depending on the age of users, therefore, foster care for infants, preschool children, and a child aged 8 years, adolescents. The foster care shall be paid for a full month regardless of the duration of the accommodation during the month and that child may be in that crisis family one day, three days, a week etc. Afterwards, I propose Amendment 3 to add a completely new article. 33 which is, a fee for the work of a foster parent who carries out the foster care of children. So, today, we've talked several times about how kids don't get adopted, that there's a lot of kids, that the adoption problem, but let's forget that there's one group, so, hard-to-adopt kids that no one wants, but also kids who are in family families, that's best for kids, but if you realize that it's a child when it's placed in a home costing a country per child 8.000,00 kn, and if it goes into a traditional foster home, it's going to cost the country 2.500,00 kn, but if it goes to a family, it won't get anything. That's why it's necessary, because it's best if a sister takes an example. He has four children, of his late brother and three innocent children and takes his children, that's best for the children, but then we suggest that at least 50% of the benefits that that child would have to go to a foster home cost the state, let alone how many three kids go to a home where each diet would cost £8.000,00. So, our amendment is to pay relatives 50% of the child’s benefits for a traditional foster child, thus allowing the child to remain in the family, in his extended family, and to encourage it. Such children are almost 1,500 in the Republic of Croatia, don't forget. Furthermore, I propose an article. In 46th, to change and to change the 1st century, who's actually on the foster team. The Centre foster care team or professional worker shall participate in the process of needs, selection and preparation of foster parents, monitoring the provision of services and training of foster parents, providing professional support, and organising a supervisory review for foster parents, etc. We add St. 2. and propose that it is a member of the foster care team other than social workers and psychologists, should be, will be a social educator and educational rehabilitator when it comes to a child with behavioral problems or a child with developmental difficulties. Therefore, the specialised foster care defined by this Law for children with behavioral problems or with a child with developmental difficulties requires the support of a strengthened expert team to be adequately and timelyly involved in support of the foster family and to be focused on early swelling and recognition of risk and protection factors, to check behavioral problems, but also on recommendations for the treatment of these children and young people in order to improve the functioning of the foster family and prevention of return to the institution. I think these are the real amendments to be discussed. I'm sorry, I don't think the other clubs went except with this where they go looking for equal rights for life partners. But I'm giving you messages from the Quality Household Forum who wanted you to hear their problems today. So, problems to take a child who is a few months old and who can't get maternity leave because they are foster parents, but for that child who is 8-9 months old or a year old, it's better for that child to go away to a foster home than to go to a child's home, only that mother should continue if it's not her profession, the foster parent as an occupation, which will only now be made possible, has to have the right and that's what this law should actually be tied up to several other laws that we regulate and strengthen the foster parents. So, when we had that budget amending tax laws two years ago, Minister Maric was really very much there, he accepted our remark and very sensitized when we allowed fosterers and foster children, because they could not increase fees, it could go as an application to his tax card, except for adopted children. After that, it is necessary to try to regulate the situation within the judiciary or custody in a different way, so that the foster parents can, not the social worker or the lawyer, be the ones who will be able to perform certain activities for that child. Also within these maternity benefits should be considered in fact whether the Ministry could make that step in contact with this Ministry, which is responsible for this and allow the adopted child, which is adopted at the age of childbearing, also has the right to maternity leave. So what do foster parents resent today? They resent the lack of information from citizens about foster care and the difference between adoption and adoption, so they are constantly talking about adoption and no adoption, but the problem is how many children are even ready to adopt and how many 1300 people who want to adopt a child are essentially ready to take a 13-year-old girl from a Roma family who has changed three foster families, which has six other brothers and sisters. And now that a child like that is taken from her parents after years, who is willing to adopt such a child? I'm not sure how many are ready. So, there are too few foster families that make children grow up in institutions, but nevertheless, the choice of foster families is crucial for a child, because each foster family is not equal. It wouldn't be easy for me to take a baby that's between 0 and 2, 3 years of age with my duties, but a kid from 13, 14 could be raised with her children without a problem. So after that, they resent the unequal representation of foster families in Croatia, but unbalanced support, equal support for all social care centres. It is said that it is a high age, age, unfavourable age and education structure, especially what we have heard from the minister today, is a special problem for foster parents who were 20 and 30 years old, raised 30 children, and eventually they are social cases because they do not have days of work. Due to the chronic lack of professional workers and space in the Centres for Social Care, foster families do not have insufficient professional assistance. We in the Primorje-Gorski County have this, we have regular monthly supervisory, we have regular contacts, 24 hours phone every day of the year with people who are the Center Source, so Center for, an institution that has completely transformed, which will support all the foster parents, but it is not that simple and not in all parts of Croatia. Even the Centre for Social Care, or your social worker, you can't get over the weekend, of course not organized and fosterers as I say do not have the opportunity to get equal support in all parts of Croatia, and that is a big problem. The foster care is more developed in small environments, where there are not enough accompanying services, then the problem of custody, as I said, is that one 'who is a foster parent can't sometimes sign for the most basic things of a child who's been raising and living with him for 24 hours. Inheritance of parents' debts, the same big problem, that's what I was talking about today, after which you should say that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108922	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108923	Yeah, well, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108924	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108925	Mostly my message is there's still a lot of problems that need to be opened, the law can still be fixed, with these amendments I invite you to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108926	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108927	Thank you, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. So today, here's a good part of the day we've really devoted ourselves to a subject that's really important, nothing less important than all the other topics we're talking about, and that we've been discussing for months, years, or whatever you want. That's why, I can't even agree, and I'm affected by the thoughts of some, including our colleagues in the Parliament, maybe we haven't heard so much here today, I haven't been able to hear everything, but in informal conversations it's going through, see as we talk about something, about the Law, where we want to allow same-sex couples to foster, or here we are dealing with life partners, and so many countries have problems. And that's one of the really wrong premises, because every human rights issue, every question, every question that concerns any citizen in this country is a fundamental right, it's important, it's as important as the economy, it's important, it's really just like any other subject we're talking about. So let's not say that this is irrelevant because here you might not be talking about the budget or talking about something that's attractive, but this is unattractive, this is an extraordinary and life-threatening question. The question of life is how for children, for adults, but so is the question of life for all those who have been denied, denied fundamentally, therefore denied this human right in this case to be a foster parent. And we have to admit, it's not, it's really not so minor and let's not hide behind everything else. Unfortunately, I will also return to this topic that is really a top topic all the time, but I would like to say by the sequence of what you are in the opening part, which the minister said when she spoke about the final bill and what was accepted, which was not accepted by what we suggested in the first, first debate, in the first reading. Therefore, we cannot agree that this Law is the best solution. We cannot agree that this Law is indeed what will contribute to quality development or to the development of quality foster care. We cannot agree, or I cannot agree that this solution will be best for all persons, that it will be the best solution for people with disabilities, adults with disabilities. And we can't argue that foster care is really one of the best social services, especially an extra-institutional service, knowing that, unfortunately, even in foster families, bad things can happen. With good therefore and control, good supervision, good education is to prevent it. However, let us not be honest and admit that in some areas of our country we will not be able to develop foster care and we can try, but it will be very, very difficult. I believe in us in Dalmatia, and somehow, somehow I can say it, so it's almost impossible because there's no traditional foster care and I don't know what kind of incentives it's going to be hard to develop. Therefore, we need to keep in mind that, in particular, we are talking about the ministry, we need to encourage, we need to invest in all other extra-institutional forms of care when it comes to children without adequate parental care or adults, for example, with disabilities. What was also not accepted, which is that this law, that this law is actually divided into two laws, one fostering children, another fostering adults, because then we might be able to talk a little differently, talk, and unfortunately you didn't accept the fact that for people with disabilities really fostering is not the best solution. And now what we've been talking about all day and what's really incomprehensible is why you don't accept it, which is why you're afraid of it, which is what's going on with you, because I would tell you next. Discrimination, this is discrimination, and discrimination harms health, damages the health of someone who is being discriminated against, harms the health of the nation, hate speech damages the entire nation's mental health. So because of that hate speech, disrespect for human rights many people go away. And that's one reason and it's our job to do that and that, by changing those attitudes, by changing such laws, to allow people to stay here. Next thing I know, none of us, so according to some research in their genetic heritage, are carrying a gay gene, but homosexuality is biologically conditioned. Being gay is not a question of choice, homosexuality is not learned or acquired, so when we talk about the welfare of children, we cannot say that in this regard it will have a bad impact on children. But what I'm going to quote is Professor Krizmanic, but there are latent sexual orientations that some people manage to conquer or control by feeling at the same time, beware, while having a whole life of frustration and failure. Why am I saying that? And I would be, I'm really sorry, and I want to tell people this way that we have to change that law because it's one of the ways that we're going to admit to people that they don't have to hide, that they don't have to say they're heterosexuals if they feel different. I'm sorry if in your ranks, if there are people in the HDZ who have to hide because of it, and this law will not help them, but help them. I don't know who he is, what kind of community he lives in, and really this kind of debate, and I'd like to help anyone who feels different, who feels unaccepted to change that. And our task here is to pass such laws that will respect the human rights of all and, of course, if we have come forward, if we have confessed something, if we have in our legal system laws that recognise certain communities then that recognition or that right should be applied and in other laws and it is right here if you leave this in this way, it is true that it will have the right to seek, it is the question of the Constitution and the question of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108928	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108929	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first of all to say that today we are discussing a bill that is good and legal for me. Today, much particularly on the left hand side of the assembly has been said here that this Law actually violates human rights and the rights of same-sex couples. I think that's actually the way the thesis turned in those attitudes. This Law does not serve to protect the rights of same - sex couples, but this Law must primarily serve the rights and interests of the child. Through the Household Act, regardless of what it is not only about fostering children, but also about adults, but since most discussions today have been limited in this direction, I would like to say that we need first of all to be aware that through this Law we are primarily protecting the interest and the right of the child. The interest and right of same-sex couples is protected through the Life Partnership Act. We ourselves know that it is also justified that someone’s rights are relatively limited if this is to protect some other rights and those groups in society that are more vulnerable. If we are talking about children, they are the most unprotected group in society, and I therefore believe that, accordingly, they must have the strongest protection and that it is therefore the correct position of the promoter at the beginning and the adoption of such a proposal for the Household Act. If that were the case, I'd warn you. 64. The constitution that says, parents are responsible for ensuring the child’s right to a complete and coherent development of his personality. Physically and mentally damaged and socially abandoned child has the right to special care, education and care. The State pays particular attention to minors without parents and those who are not cared for by parents. What am I saying? Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are in a position to decide the rights of these children, to show that we are indeed their legal advocates, to decide their best interests, these children have lost their biological family, they are institutionalized, let's not push them where they may not want them. Imagine the situation that you have a 10-year-old child, and we impose this law on them that he can be fostered by the same-sex community, and what he doesn't want, no one will ask him if he wants or doesn't want it, it came from a biological family where Mom and Dad had one, so I think the bill is good because it protects first of all the rights and interests of the child, a child who can't just decide about himself. That is why we are here who should be his good legal advocates, and that is why we need to think about it when we adopt this Law. Here, so much for this, and then you would point out some more things that have been said today, and in fact, there are positive changes to the current Household Act. In fact, this Law gives the possibility that people who are unemployed can also, by fostering, actually self-employed, say so, and I think that this is a good way to help younger people who are unemployed first and who, according to what the Law has prescribed as conditions, meet the conditions that they can be foster parents and thus resolve their employment and have the same health and pension insurance, which has not been the situation so far. What I mean is that in the end, let's not calculate against these laws, let's be aware first of all that this Law and its similar laws protect, first of all, the most vulnerable group in society, and these are our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108930	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. We have a replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108931	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Jelkovac, here's just one question, I ask you to answer me. After what you just said, would you, would you, would you, uh, take the child away from the person who had a child in one relationship, and then, after that, set up a life partnership? Just tell me that, would you take the child away from that person because it's the same thing for you. Or do you think that this child is actually living in bad conditions and that this life partnership would take away the right to parenting, so maybe fostering that child into a heterosexual family?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108932	Thank you, colleague Jelkovac's reply, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108933	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, to be picturesque, you've mistaken pears and apples. So, this bill doesn't speak at all about child abduction, we're talking about fostering, and I was just in my debate saying what kind of foster parents should provide for children who need foster care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108934	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelovac for his reply. Next debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108935	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honoring state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, we have been talking all day about the final proposal of the Household Act, and we have indeed heard a lot of criticism and praise. My special respect for the presentation of those colleagues who were foster parents and who spoke from that experience. I can speak from the experience of parents, mothers of three children with more than 30 years of parental experience I will give myself the right to quote some passages of some and books and some people who are far more professional in this than I am. I would very much like to read and hear what the experts say, so we often see that for example. They say, children learn from parenting examples. children copy our behavior, what children learn from our behavior, learn by the model of copying, observing our parents' faces, and accepting reactions. I wonder if we're talking about same-sex communities, for example. two men, would you rather they had a boy, a male child, and he lived as a third man in that new family or would have allowed a girl to be there. And now that we're looking at children not to talk, they need to be inspired, that they're making little sponges, that they can be spoken to, but if they're not experienced by an example of what they're trying to do in their heads, an example that they're going to see from you, you're talking in vain. So it's in vain to talk to a boy who, for example, is a boy. In one same-sex community, two men, what is the love for that opposite sex that beauty has? Children won't be children for long, they'll start exploring very quickly, experimenting in the world in which they surround themselves. We know that children, first of all, imitate their role models, and the role model in one such, let's say, a new family is certainly one of those partners. A parent of many words and few examples will accomplish little. Likewise, if in one such community he is told about this love, about this other sex, not to say that when he comes into contact with that opposite sex that he didn't have in that same sex community, he'll run out of confidence. Being a parent is a big responsibility and it's really not easy, and I'd say the foster parent is even harder and more responsible. Small eyes observe all of this and they will get a keen desire from the example. So, a child who is fostered in the same-sex community, in this regard, I think that if the role model follows and his parents can form a new same-sex community. And we will all agree together, and I think that everyone here as a parent would still prefer that our children find love in the opposite sex and that this love be blessed with a new life. That's what I'm saying from my proud grandmother's experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108936	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108937	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Branka, children are always a sensitive question. When this is discussed, the question is always asked, how, and when the problem comes, how do you solve it. I congratulate the foster families who took the children, of course not, I disagree that gay people who, based on some kind of marriage, would accept children. But it's a process, it's one process that has to go through, we have to set the standard first, of course I'm not for what others want, but we have to make every effort in the country to put the state on its right feet, to single out more for those children and, of course, congratulate those people and who have fostered children and who really care for them. And that's what's basic and that we're making good acceptable centers that can give it all to these kids, and that's actually real politics, and gay marriages, I don't agree with that, and that children.../Intruders: I thank the respected fellow Misic, imagine, are assigned to such people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108938	Branka Juričev-Martinchev's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108939	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Misic, I would really once again express my great respect for all those who are fostering, but as you said yourself, I think that a child should lead to a same-sex community by example to show love for the same sex that can ultimately lead to the child's wish and later living in the same-sex community, and that certainly is not the point for all of us. Those who are, they're adults who decided to live that life, but in that direction raising children, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108940	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108941	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juričev-Martinchev, on what scientific analysis did you carry out your thesis? So, first of all, sexual orientation is not chosen, whether you want to accept it or not, people are born like that. The second thing, according to your thesis, is not a foster child in isolation in the camp, so that doesn't come out of the apartment, that child goes to kindergarten, that child goes to school, that child goes to other people, plays with other children, so it's not some kind of ghetto in the apartment, so it won't come into contact with the outside world. And the other thing is, if we have a man or a woman who's gay, and they're grown up in a heterosexual marriage, with heterosexual parents, how they became who they are, by that theory of yours, if they imitate someone and the other thing you said you were talking about based on your own experience of parents. I don't know if you've raised someone homosexual, this, this child, so you have experience in this. So you can talk about how it goes or doesn't work, here, let us know. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108942	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Answer to a respected colleague of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108943	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, I'm already a year old, so all three children already have girls and husbands and I have a granddaughter, thank God and so on. I don't think children are raised in the ghetto, and I'm sure I can follow another example, but most often there are role models, especially with fewer children, parents. So it's either a father or a mother. Why someone became a homosexual, they are already, and research is being done on this matter. It happens that precisely because of domestic violence, I don't know, there's a certain hatred and reluctance towards the other sex, so it comes back to the same, but I'm not professional in talking about it, but that's what doctoral dissertation is about. We get a chance every day and read about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108944	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108945	Thank you. My colleague, Jurič-Martinchev, here's my colleague, Saša Djujic, who stole a good piece of my replica because that's exactly what I wanted to ask you. From which families, then, did individuals or homosexuals come, from which families? Made, learned, hard. So don't, don't mess with those thesis because they're really not right and let's not be sure what our children are like. Many respected people don't really know what their children are like. And we don't know and there's no guarantee that the child, how this adult will be, we can try not to know how much, but how it's going to become, but what I do know is that in a family where there's hate speech, where discriminatory attitudes rule, it's going to be inherited, it's definitely going to be inherited. homosexuality doesn't. [[Thank you, dear colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108946	To the replica, answer from my colleague Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108947	Thank you very much, so colleague Alfirev, here's to you and your colleagues before that, I assumed I'd get one of those lines. So here's only the presentation of Dr. Vlatka Baričević Mašić says it has not been investigated and it would be important to be indirect and indirect even the impact on fostering in homosexual families of social isolation, peer relations, etc. and the results of some analyses of other countries in our country cannot be used. Maybe as it was today, it may not be time for us to do something like this, but I haven’t talked about this part in any way when that child comes to the playground at school as it may have problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108948	Thank you for your response. We're moving on to the next debate, the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, is not present. Final word on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Maria Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108949	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your constructive discussion, suggestions and remarks. As stated at the very beginning of the debate, this law came about because the state of foster care in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory. Due to insufficient number of foster families and their uneven spread in the Republic of Croatia, it is therefore not possible to intensify the process of deinstitutionalisation of children from institutions of social care as well as the process of prevention of institutionalisation. So lastly, I thank everyone who participated in today's debate, and I propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Household Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108950	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, the Secretary of State, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa, for this final word. With this, we have exhausted all discussions on this agenda point, I would like to conclude the debate and once again thank the Secretary of State, Maria Pleikosa, and the advisers of Minister Zvezdni Bogdanovic, on the reasons and answers they gave to the MPs and MPs. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108951	The following law is the final proposal of the Household Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 376. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Amendment by the Club of Representatives HNS Liberal Democrats, SDP Representatives Club, Sabina Vosovac's representative, GLAS and HSU's club and Ines Strenja's representative. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, I would ask the applicant's representative to show that the amendments submitted have been made. State Secretary Margareta Majeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108952	Thank you very much. That's what it
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108953	First, we'll start with Amendment 1-4 even though they're identical, but the first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108954	The government does not accept, taking into account primarily the protection of the child and the assessment of the child's greatest interest, it is not possible to accept the amendment in the proposed form. The institution of foster care stems from the social service of accommodation, which defines the family as a community made by spouses, children and other relatives who live together, commit, earn income in a different way and spend it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108955	Thank you. I don't see any proposing representatives, so we're going to have to vote on that amendment. The next amendment, and it's actually the same amendment, but it was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, please read.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108956	The government does not accept, as is the reason for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108957	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Honorable Representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108958	Thank you. We, as a club, have proposed this amendment, to prevent any political trade in HNS from giving up the amendment that it has submitted, and yet to vote on it. Since none of the representatives of the HNS Club came today to defend their amendment, we won't be doing it on their behalf either, we'll be doing it on our behalf. So whatever you write in the law, in this article, accept or do not accept that amendment that the HNS has submitted, the courts will have to respect the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and allow persons living in a life partnership to have the same access to this social service as you have stated here. Therefore, this is actually a play by the CNS to prove its liberal and HDZ its conservative line, at the expense of the current practice of the European Court of Human Rights and at the expense of distracting itself from some important matter in the country. Therefore, it is clear that this law has been given the subject of same-sex communities, so that the CNS will prove its liberalism, HDZ will eventually rejuvenate the court as it has so far ruled, we will ask for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108959	The hand was raised by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108960	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, as it is now evident for the consultation, that this whole farce and play that we could have followed in the last few days about some alleged conflict between HDZ and HNS has proved true, what we've been saying all along. HNS's representatives are not here at all, they've given the amendment and this shows that this conflict is actually being falsified, in order to make much more important topics pass out of the public's focus. In fact, I remind the general public that Foreign Policy Committee Chairman Miro Kovac has concluded that most likely the Committee on Foreign Policy will be reassembled, because the conclusion on the acceptance of the Marrakek compact has not been reached, as my colleague Klisovic confirmed that he has not given a vote at all, and Committee President Miro Kovac said that he has 7 votes and refused to discuss the proposal of Croatian Parliament President God Petrova that the Croatian Parliament is discussing the Marrakek Agreement. Yesterday, Budnestag debated the Marrakech Agreement, and yet they have made one statement saying that the Marrakech Agreement will not affect the legal order of the meaning of Germany, we demand it here, and these games of HDZ and HNS will not be tolerated, I demand that you too, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, to take up the Croatian Parliament to discuss the Marrakech Agreement, you cannot do so with this game of NHS and HDZ. The Croatian people expect you to be expected by Croatian MPs to discuss such an important issue, which is the key issue of Europe and the world, and not to push such finer conflicts into another plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108961	You know you've now broken the Rules of Procedure, and it is because you're talking about a subject that's not on the agenda right now. Marrakesh has absolutely nothing to do with foster care, nothing. You'll get, you'll get a break of course, just distracting you not to. I will not give you a warning, but I draw your attention that you do not, and in the future, if anyone will in this way violate the Rules of Procedure, I will give you a warning. Because now we're discussing foster care. Comrade Bulj, you also want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. In what injured Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108962	... You've hurt Rules of Procedure 238, or a colleague of Grumoy's hurt his Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Grmoy said that this Household Act is a play of HNS and HDZ to push through the Marrakech Agreement counter-business on the Committee on Foreign Affairs which opposed Miro Kovac. And that is very important, the whole world and Europe are discussing the Marrakech Agreement, and you are not allowing parliament to discuss this most important topic in the world, and you are pushing this law just to make it go away in the shadows. Underneath the table you push the Marrakech Agreement And we're looking [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] MPs to debate [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in a meeting on this Agreement [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] Otherwise you are the same as Miro Kovac and Plenkovic [[You're out of time.]] you do not allow parliament to discuss this point. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, you're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108963	I'm giving you a warning because I just said that you can't talk in a series of Rules of Procedure about a subject that isn't. You have a free speech, you can say whatever you want, whatever you want. Dear Representative Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108964	I would like to say, I would also like to say that we are looking for a 10-minute break so as to point out that this extremely important document will not be discussed in this assembly and I am asking a rhetorical question. If the arguments are on your side, if you're right, and we're wrong, why are you afraid that this topic is being discussed here and the place because it's an extremely important document, the whole world is discussing this issue, all the media are writing about the Marrakech Agreement, many European countries including Switzerland have rejected it, and we are bound by mouth here, we can't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108965	I will, of course, approve you, as well as my colleagues Grumoji, but I repeat, the breaks read to yourself, please finally Rules of Procedure. The stations are approved on the point under discussion. This moment is not, you can discuss the Marrakech Agreement as much as you want in free speech, etc., but now it's a different topic. Injury, breach of the Rules of Procedure raised. Shall we just calm down for a second? Are we gonna calm down?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108966	I also have to take advantage of the opportunity here and say that it's unacceptable...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108967	And I can give you my first word, colleague Zekanovic. Yes, please. [[/Intruder: Please, may I?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108968	I must say that it is unacceptable that such a controversial document is being discussed throughout the world, and it is the Marrakech Agreement where all neighbouring countries have given up the Marrakek Agreement, and that we in the Croatian Parliament, in the highest home of the Croatian people, must not talk about it. For a month now, I have been personally talking about this controversial document, and this is how I ask that this document be put into debate in the Croatian Parliament. This is simply unacceptable, so we must discuss in the Croatian Parliament on the Marrakech Agreement, if Germany is to discuss, if Switzerland, Hungary, Australia, I think the Croatian Parliament must, too. Because we're the most vulnerable to this agreement. [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108969	A colleague of Zekanovic, a colleague of Zekanovic, should you not have called on some point of the Rules of Procedure, but you knowingly violated him after I asked you nicely not to, I am issuing you this notice. Don't ask that in connection with this, don't ask with this with the Marrakech Agreement a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give every warning. It's not the subject of this moment of conversation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108970	Mr. President, I just want to say that I'm asking you to warn the MPs to speak on the subject of the debate, and if they want to discuss there is a Rules of Procedure that prescribes how it is handled, you don't know that, so you don't know that you have a Rules of Procedure and you ask for a hearing, no one defends you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108971	Comrade Kovac, I must also give you a warning because you have broken the Rules of Procedure, this one I ask you nicely to stick to the subject So let's just make a deal now. [[I don't know anything, but I'm mine.]] Are we going to continue these amendments to the Household Bill proposal until the end, then take a break or do you want to take a break right now? All right. He's taking a break right now. I'll see you in 10 and 13 minutes. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:17 A.M.]] Here you go, dear Secretary of State Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108973	Vice President, the government doesn't accept the amendment. The explanation is the same as for the first two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108974	On behalf of GLAS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108976	Can we just shut up for a minute, please, colleagues, can we please hear a colleague, Beus Richembergh?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108977	There's some noise coming from Marrakesh. We have actually given this amendment the chance for the government not to be ashamed and to save money. In fact, it is quite clear, and it has also been warned by the lawyers, that the bill, that it is a miracle that it has even passed, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because in a college with 3 already existing laws, but which is the worst of all and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, it is quite clear that, because of this and such a hard-core position of the Government, I hope not the ruling majority, will be put in a position to evaluate the constitutional law on the one hand, on the other hand, that the Republic will be exposed to lawsuits. Why go into exhausting citizens, why go into paying costs and why in the end bring you to a position to come here in front of this High House and say sorry, we need to change that law. This is an elegant way to avoid it and stop scaring the public with some kind of bogeyman because it's literally two pairs, so we're not going to be dramatic, in practice or in the work of our social services, the CZSS, but we're going to allow at least two, three children to get a chance to be fostered by those who really care about growing up in a quality environment, with love, attention and all that the foster family has to offer in order to be a foster community at all. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108978	Thank you. The fourth amendment is that representative Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108979	The government doesn't accept it either. The explanation is the same as for the first three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108980	Honorable representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108981	Dear Secretary of State, you don't care that you have to pay the fines, or not you, but Croatian citizens, because if you go to a same-sex couple to press charges before the European Court of Human Rights, we've won the case. But I don't understand the fact that you're kindly looking at the fact that somewhere around 1,000 children abandoned by heterosexual families, they have their only home in homes for carefree children. And the only warmth of home they feel is the cold cold walls of those homes. Why did you choose not to accept this amendment and not to allow those children to find the warmth of home in a foster home that may be made by all the same-sex partners in accordance with all the professional procedures, evaluations and rules, I really don't understand. And I'm even less clear to why you've actually eliminated those life partners, same-sex life partners, in the possibility of related care for their aunts, grandmothers, aunts or some old and powerless members of their rope or wider family. I really don't get it, and I won't get it. We handed over this amendment after yesterday's debate in the hope that you will still sleep over, once again consider, that it is actually in the interest of the state not to be any child not in the heat but in the cold of the cold home abandoned and unsettled, but it has not helped you at night, but I am afraid that you will come before this Croatian Parliament and have to change this law when they start hitting us in the pocket. And when Croatian citizens pay for your carelessness, your nonchalant and disastrous way of leading the state, then I really, I mean, I don't have the words simply what kind of government it is to get you into these things in cold blood and put our citizens in a position to pay for your mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108982	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Subject Voter: Yes.]] So now we're going to the fifth amendment that's different from the first four, that's the amendment of the club of representatives of the HNS, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108983	The government doesn't accept. The proposal to delete point 2 is not accepted since standard foster care establishes a more serious form of rights and obligations arising from foster care which is not subject to the conditions of previous life of traditional foster care as a form of foster care in which the primary foster parent can gain direct experience in fostering and competent CZSS with insight and direct co-existence of foster parents and users, the willingness of foster parents. It is also not possible to accept a proposal to supplement point 3 as proposed, as the provisions of Article 23(5) and Article 24(4) clearly give rise to the number of children and adult users who carry out standard foster care must be located in the foster home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108984	Thank you. I guess, uh, the Honorable Representative Stephen Curaj will.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108985	Thank you, Vice President. Thanks again to everyone for worrying about the previous amendment,... We stay with our amendment and we vote on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, we do not accept your argument, as we have stated, that when we put a condition that someone would become professional as a foster parent as an occupation, that we put as a condition that they must have 6 months, before that experience as a traditional foster parent, and people who do not have the conditions to become a traditional foster parent, especially because of the property situation, if they are unemployed, and we know that a person who wants to be a traditional foster parent must have a certain censorship, we practically exclude them from this part, especially if we talk about single persons, do we know that the property censorship is seen in relation to family members, and we have absolutely excluded them from, so, unemployed singles can't actually compete as fosterers for, through interest, this amendment would change it. Furthermore, in point 3, Article 15, condition that standard foster care can be performed if the foster parent provides accommodation services for three or four, three children or four adult users, means, at the same time, that the single person does not have the conditions to carry out foster care as an occupation, since in Article 23, paragraph 5, which prescribes the accommodation of children with the foster child who performs the standard of occupation, states that there must be two children in the foster home. So a little contradictory, actually, and that would be our amendment to extend the possibility of people who want to be foster parents, which is the very purpose and purpose of this reason, so we stay on the amendment and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108986	Thank you. The next amendment is number six, Agent Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108987	The government doesn't accept. The proposal is not accepted because the time from at least three years of service as a traditional foster home, too long a time that would be required as a special condition for the performance of standard foster care as an occupation. A three-year-old would not be stimulating to include new and younger families, and in fact, it is the aim of this Law. The time of at least 6 months in which the foster parent provides a service as a traditional foster parent is long enough in which the Centre for Social Care, as well as the Committee for the selection of foster parents as an occupation, can determine the quality of householding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108988	The Honorable Representatives of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108989	The bridge, independent lists are after consulting many, many foster parents, and they are fostering children around 1500 in Croatia, so they have extremely much experience, estimated that what we have suggested is realistic. So, six months for someone to come and become a traditional foster parent is too short if we know that now the Social Care Centres may once in a year, enter every foster family so that the Centres can assess if someone good is able to carry out foster care as an occupation. And that's why we thought that this three-year-old deadline, that someone was showing that the foster parent was a traditional foster parent, a minimum after which he could professionalise and be his profession. It's very important for us to have enough foster parents, but it's even more important to have enough quality foster parents, so this isn't a way to start hiring someone who can't earn a living differently, and we think it's absolutely necessary to control the Social Care Center that, if it's only six months old, could not be respected. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108990	Thank you. And the seventh amendment was given by a representative, a respected Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108991	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposal is not accepted because the fee for the work of the foster parent can only be paid during the accommodation of the users in the foster family, which is considered the only legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108992	The Honorable Representatives of Ines Strenja on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108993	So, the bridge, independent lists, proposed a special item that would refer to crisis foster care, so crisis fostering, i.e. users of temporary accommodation in crisis situations, accommodation is organized into prepared traditional foster families depending on the age of the users, so we have, should have foster care for infants, foster care means, crisis foster care, emergency foster care for preschool children, a child aged 8 years and adolescents. The foster care for this crisis is considered and we have suggested it should be paid for the full month regardless of the duration of the accommodation during the month, it is always about children who are urgently, during the night, moving from their primary biological family during the day, and accommodation to a traditional foster parent who has the capacity to do so, which is why we have proposed to share these depending on the age of the child, but also because it is a crisis foster home, these are people who are capacitated, but they have to make more effort, because there is a difficult traumatized child that makes us think that no matter how many days a child was given in the month, this traditional foster child should be paid off means for the whole month. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108994	Thank you. I have to apologize it wasn't either this or the previous, it wasn't the Club's amendments, it was the Honorable Representatives of Ines Strenja. And the next eighth amendment, is also an amendment to the respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108995	The Government does not accept, because Article 30(5) of the Final Proposal of the Household Act is prescribed that the amount of compensation for the work of the foster parents is determined by the Minister. As regards related foster care and the provision of compensation for the work of family foster parents, a legal arrangement has been maintained so far whereby the relative foster parent is recognised as a provision for the user, but not as a compensation for the work of the foster parent. Thus, the regulation of the amount cannot be the content of this Law. The calculation of the work compensation and the decision-making process in which the right of the fosterer to receive compensation is recognised is already contained in the provisions of the Final Proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108996	The Honorable Representatives of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108997	Thank you. In order to explain this amendment that I have proposed, I have to go back to the story of 1,000 children is currently in children's homes. 850 children are in children's homes. Most of these children, most of these children, have not been resolved to take parental care or will never be able to take away, because that child in order to completely take away parental care should, after that, only go to adoption, but they have living relatives of their own. So we can't talk and talk all the time about just one or two like they were the last, previous these five amendments that would eventually get with the same sex, in the same sex community right to foster, but I'm sorry that we're always forgetting 3,000 children who are in foster families and those 850 children who are looking for our help right now. That's what we need to talk about, that's what we were supposed to talk about yesterday all day. And for that reason, it is best not to take parental care away from them, but to put them in a relative family if possible. So if a brother or sister has children of their own, they have three more children to their dead brother or sister, or relatives, whom they can take into their family, deserve to get some compensation, because it's better for that child to go to a relative family than to be in a home, and that's what we need to talk about, and that's where we have to, we can solve dozens and dozens of children. And that's why I think if the benefit to the foster parent is traditional of £2.50,00, that this child would go to a relative family, for that child the state can, as I suggested, pay 50% of that amount and we will still raise the child in one family and not grow up in a home. That's the rate to talk about, and these are cases that we solve dozens and hundreds of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108998	And the ninth, you're looking for a vote, right? The ninth Amendment is a respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u108999	The government does not accept, the proposal is not accepted because they are in art. The 46th century. 2. The final proposal of the Law clearly prescribed the obligation of the Centre towards fosterers or team or expert worker of the Centre and proposed by the cited provision. According to Art. The 16th Regulation on minimum conditions of space, equipment and the number of necessary professional and other workers of the Centre for Social Care and Branches is prescribed to carry out a foster care team consisting of a social worker, psychologist and lawyer. It is not by law on foster care that makes up the foster care team, but by means of the said Regulation, which is the subject of the Household Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109000	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109001	Thank you, yes. So, we think that the foster care team should certainly, so he's doing foster care and foster evaluations at the Centre and in it, as you said, is involved by a social worker, a lawyer and a psychologist. We also believe that, in addition to social workers and psychologists, a social educator and educational rehabilitator should be involved when it comes to a child with behavioral problems or a child with developmental difficulties. Only they can provide sufficient quality assessment to protect that child and include timely support for the foster family and focus on early detection and identification of risk and protection factors. I must draw attention once again because this is my last Amendment, that I regret that this Law is not divided into fostering older people and fostering children because these are completely two different categories. We put children in a foster home temporarily, and adults, elderly people, are placed permanently for the rest of their lives in a foster home. Special story is persons with disabilities, and yesterday they came to us by the Association for Self-representation because accommodation of persons with disabilities instead of including them in the Croatian community is absolutely unacceptable, we have to do everything to give support to a family in which a person with disabilities is involved, not to put them in another family, in another part of the Republic, where there, the foster family will be paid to have a person with disabilities living in them instead of staying in their parent family who needed support. I'm looking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109002	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109003	Now we move on to Final Proposal of the Household Act, Second Reading, PZ No. 376. Comrade Curaj, here comes the word, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109004	Thank you, Mr. President. Please pause on behalf of the HNS Club to consult on this law. I also want here and from this place, and I want to appeal to colleagues who left the sitting to return after the break, to vote for the proposed amendment with which a quality law will be passed, which is, and what is most important in the interests of children, of course, the elderly and the powerless. We believe that the above-mentioned amendment, if adopted, is fully legal, in accordance with the Constitution and will enable what is most needed, not adoption, no custody rights, but the right of a child to a home, to deinstitutionalise, to the care he has the right to decide whether or not he will. We believe that it should be possible for formal and informal life partners to participate in our laws, and that does not mean that it is an obligation, but only an option. And the CNS will once again remain and stand behind its amendment, and I ask you once again, all colleagues who have left the sitting may return, let them not politicise with the fate of children, for there are too many children in their homes and here is just that. Nothing else, nothing ideologies, nothing but the future of children and child care. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109005	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Zekanovic, you can't do this, you can't ask for a break, you know that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109006	No, no, I'm not gonna ask for a break, I'd just say unlike some who are afraid to vote on world-famous issues, I'm not afraid,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109007	Comrade Zekanovic, don't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109008	I'm not afraid, and I'm gonna like my SDP colleagues saying,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109009	My colleague Zekanovic, you can't, you can't speak that way, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 2:30. MEETING AT 14:22 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.33 HOURS]] Let's go, then, to: - Final proposals of the Household Law, second reading, P.Z. Number 376, as I said, the motionary is the Government. The debate is closed. We're going to the Amendments first. We declare the amendments of the club of HNS representatives, Liberal Democrats, SPD representatives' club, Sabina Glasovac's representative, GLAS and HSU's club and Ines Strenja's representative. The debate was already held at the meeting held on 30 November 2018. The review of the Amendment was submitted by electronic means. We are now going to vote on amendments that the Proposer does not accept. Identical Amendments were submitted by HNS MPs' club, Liberal Democrats, SPD MPs' club, Sabina Glasovac's representative, GLAS and HSU's club. It's Amendments 1, 2, 3, and 4, so we'll do it on the basis of an article. The 202nd century of the 7th Rules of Procedure only vote on one of them. I am giving the above-mentioned amendment, which the Government does not accept, to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that the above-mentioned Amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Let's go now, what? Stanka, okay, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109011	President-in-Office of HS, we are asking for a recess to further consult, but once again further alert all forms of discrimination that you will produce if such a form of the Household Act is adopted. In children's homes in the Republic of Croatia, not a funny colleague from HDZ In children's homes there are more than 1100 children waiting for foster care, children who will never be able to feel the warmth of the family home because you will not allow same-sex couples to host those children, and they want to host them. [[Intruder: Please]] Therefore, in this way, directly, Plenkovic's Government and this parliamentary majority want to discriminate against a group of people and to the harm of children under the age of 7 years. For discrimination today you can be by voting for this bill or by staying in the hall, holding the quorum and voting abstentions, as announced by colleagues and colleagues from the HNS who are known to be the on-call HDZ. Today, I invite you fellow Curaj, as you have invited us to vote for your amendments, we have done it, to get out of the hall, to show that you have little face, that you have little dignity, that you are not yet a partner who can be blackmailed, that you have a spine, and not that you are homeless, because tomorrow you will have to put yourself in a position to vote in the same way for the Law on Abruption, even more conservatively, which is done by Plenkovic's Minister Kujundzic, along with the Church and the backward conservative associations. Therefore, women's right to choose, women's right to decide on their own body is their right, and neither the Church nor the conservative Association nor Plenkovic's minister, who says that a priest in the hospital is worth more than 12 doctors. I'm inviting you out. 'Cause you can't be present [[Employer: A colleague Bernardić, time is up]] And fair in this vote. [[Employer: A colleague Bernardić, time is up]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109012	Time's up, please don't bring up such qualifications on your colleagues again. Everyone here has a right, you used the expressions of the homeless, the errand boy, etc. Don't do it, I don't think it's fair. But, therefore, everyone has a right, therefore, to their own opinion Well, different opinions, different worlds, please be tolerated to each other. [[Appoint Bernardić: No, it's conditional, it's in conditionial either]] Here's my colleague Batinić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109013	Thank you, Mr. President, it's an injured officer. 238. Rules of Procedure, he was injured by his colleague Bernardic, and it was common. Namely, errand boy, do you know a colleague, Bernardic, what does that mean in translation? I could do a lot of such qualifications, especially for you, but I'm not using that, nor will any of the HNS be used to that. Furthermore, as far as the proposed Law is concerned, we are the Law when it went between two readings, communicating it the way we are today. You only remembered not long after we handed over the Amendment, you signed the Amendment, and you started speaking this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109014	Comrade Jelkovac, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there was this kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then what? You're looking for a break, too, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109015	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again how this bill protects the child's interest above all. The Government as a Proposer and Resort Ministry had first and foremost a focus on the rights and interest of the child. Those who say otherwise today have actually turned the thesis. This Law does not reduce, or enforce the rights of same-sex communities, their rights are protected by the Life Partnership Act. We must be aware that through this Law we must actually protect children who are the most endangered part of our society and in this case we protect those children who unfortunately lost their biological families, they are institutionalized, it was their additional trauma, and let us not in this way, by such a flat-rate assessment bring them into a situation with such proposals coming from individual representatives, let us not bring them back to the situation to further traumatize them. As a HDZ club, we believe that such a bill proposed by the Government is, above all, in the interests of the child and the protection of his rights, which obliges us and the Constitution to protect the rights of children, especially children who are without the protection of parents. The state must especially protect such children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109016	Thank you. I approve a break with my colleague Hajdukovic still reporting for his violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109017	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 was injured, a colleague says that same sex couples traumatize children. I can't accept that, that, if we're talking about qualifications that aren't right this isn't right. My colleagues, we are all flesh and blood regardless of who we love and because we love the same sex, it is not right to single them out as someone who traumatizes children. Children are traumatized by abusers and in families, children are traumatized by peer violence They're not traumatized by ordinary people. [[Incursion President: Col. Hajdukovic, just a little bit, just a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109018	Please, colleague Hajdukovic, this was a classic replica, you understand that. So there are different opinions, different worlds, different ideas and here we are because we represent different political ideas and attitudes. So this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here are your colleagues, too, colleague Jelkovac, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109019	Article 238 has been injured. So I didn't say that sex couples traumatize children, but I said that after institutionalising such children, let's not further demand them in this way as individual clubs and advocates suggest that we also allow same-sex couples to foster such children because there is still no evidence in this society that such children would not be traumatized.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109020	Wait a minute, I'm begging you now. So we started now, this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you started replicating it through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. So it's something I consider a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm about to interrupt this debate. More colleagues will report to Radin... No, no, you won't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you want to replicate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's my colleague, Radin, here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109021	The National Minority Representatives' Club is looking for a break so that, based on all that's been heard these days and everything that's been heard today, it's decided that they're going to vote on this, for this law. We were, I was talking about this law in front of the National Minorities Club and I said that it would vote on conscience, one part of the national minority club would vote in one way and the other part of the national minority club would vote in another way. But what is certain, however, is that this part of the national minorities who vote in another way will sign a constitutional suit because it is a violation of the human rights of one part of the population. And about the trauma that has been said now is no replica, but I will say my opinion, in my youth, the single mothers were traumatized and called by all kinds of names. Today a single mother is a family with her child. She wasn't family before, she was something else. If society is, it can traumatize a child contribute to changing that society if, and in those parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109022	Okay. I approve of the break and here. We have three clubs. A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109023	So, Mr. President, I must say that Article 236 has been injured. My colleague, therefore, took advantage of the breach of the Rules of Procedure to say that it was not a neck, but a neck. So you've realized it, you've realized it, I'm, I'm trying to be constructive... [[Invader President: No, colleague Hajdukovic, come on, don't, as a child now, I mean we're really pushing it to the finish line.]] I'm trying to be constructive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can I finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109024	You can't because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109025	How do I break the Rules of Procedure if it indicates that a colleague broke the Rules of Procedure? Then I have to go to the board and all I have to do is figure it out because I have no other choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109026	But I was saying that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109027	How am I supposed to protect myself from your arbitrary session?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109028	What a voluntary session, both of you and her, I told you that you violated the Rules of Procedure. She had no privileged position, a colleague... Here's a warning? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come on, let's take a break by 14.53. MEETING IN 14.43 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.55 HOURS]] The government doesn't accept it, so let's approach the vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment No. 6. Representatives of Ines Strenja. The government doesn't accept that amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the 7th Amendment of the same MP. The government doesn't accept that amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment No. 8, repatriation of Ines Strenja. The government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the 9th Amendment of the same MP. The government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Household Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, with six abstentions and four votes against, were passed the Household Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109030	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Measurement, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 466. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for the economy and legislation. I call upon the motionary's representative, respectable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, to give us an additional explanation of the final bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109031	Thank you very much, esteemed Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the reason why we propose to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law on Measurement is the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion this August, and related to the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority, and all in the context of meeting the obligations of the National Reform Programme for 2018. In accordance with the applicable Law on Measurement, the State Bureau of Measurement, which is a national administrative organisation, performs the tasks of legal measurement, which means that this refers to measurements, units of measurement and measurement methods. On the other hand, the Croatian Measurement Institute, which has the status of an institution, performs the tasks of basic or scientific measurement, whose task is to establish state ethlons, units of measurement, establish traceability and uniqueness of measurement in the Republic of Croatia, and develop new measurement methods. What we propose, therefore, to these amendments and additions is the accession of the Croatian Measurement Institute, the State Bureau of Measurement, and we hold that this will ensure a better organisation of measuring operations, facilitate co-operation, timely performances according to the requirements of the economy and better visibility at national level. In this context, the amendment and addition of the law are prescribed for the termination of the work of the Croatian Measurement Institute, the way workers, jobs, assets, equipment and other documentation are taken over by the State Bureau of Measurement. Therefore, to repeat the basic objective of adopting these amendments and to complement the rationalisation of the system of legal persons with public authorities. To implement this law, it will not be necessary to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to fiscal impact, the National Bureau of Measurement shall take over the funds planned for the Croatian Measurement Institute in 2019 and 2020, which are reduced for the savings expected by this accession. The savings are expected around the costs of external accounting services as well as the costs of measuring activities that the Croatian Measurement Institute is now calculating to the State Monitoring Office. The State Institute takes over 6 workers who are now employed at the Croatian Measurement Institute and, as we have been told, we propose amendments and additions to the emergency procedure, in order to implement the Government's conclusion in accordance with the deadlines set by the basic legislative plan, i.e. to fulfil the obligations under the European Semester. The working bodies of the Parliament, therefore the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on the Economy, supported most of the votes put forward by this proposal to amend and supplement this proposal with the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109032	Thank you, Your Honor, to the Secretary of State. Would the Committee’s rapporteurs perhaps want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, dear colleague Zarko Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109033	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. As we have already said several times, the government of the Republic of Croatia has determined to move towards a reduction in the number of agencies with a fundamental objective of rationalising the public administration system. We are talking, so, about a comprehensive process through which 54 public administration bodies will be abolished or merged with ministries or other societies. The objective is an effective, fast, simple and transparent public administration. We believe that this process gives us serious and quality reform, which, as I have already said, will lead to the overall rationalisation of the state administration and bodies with public authority for the benefit of Croatian citizens to certain financial savings. Accordingly, and in accordance with the Government's decisions of 02.08 this year, a conclusion has been made that the process has been launched. In the context of this Proposal for a Law, the National Bureau of Measurement as the competent authority responsible for the proposals for all activities related to the accession of the Croatian Measurement Institute to the State Institute. The purpose of this concrete accession of the Croatian Measurement Institute is simply a better organisation of measuring operations, facilitating cooperation, joint performance according to the requirements of the economy and generally stronger, better quality and better visibility at national level. Of course, the law also defines those technical things, the process of taking over workers, jobs, assets, equipment and the overall documentation of the Croatian Measurement Institute. As a consequence, the National Bureau of Measurement will take over the activities of a thorough scientific measurement and will add them to the legal measurement operations it has carried out so far. We believe that this law, as well as the other laws that go into this package, will indeed help to ensure that the quality of the process of rationalising the system of legal persons with public powers is as high as possible, as well as that the greater the savings for the state budget and, in this context, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109034	I thank my esteemed colleague, Žarki Tušek. No more requests for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, Mrs Natashi Mikush Zigman and the Chief of State at the Bureau of Measurement, Mr Dalibor Jakir, for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109035	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Measurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 466. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Measurement. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 92 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Measurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109036	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the frequent abuse of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready". They shall be submitted to the 28 representatives of the Club of Representatives of the SDP under Article. 86 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 45 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of Article 2 shall apply in the event of a discussion of this act. 145-151 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government delivered the report. I ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Dear colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109037	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the National Assembly in the highest representative body of our country. Suggesting in fact, this Interpletion a year ago, we only had one goal in mind. To encourage all of us, citizens' representatives, regardless of our ideological or secular differences, which we consider to be not only normal but also desirable, to bear witness to the value of our democratic pluralism and our European civilizational level with a unique condemnation of one of the symbols of the totalitarian and criminal Ustasha regime, which not only did not allow ideological and political pluralism, banned democracy and parties, but by brutally and physically, he removed others and otherwise. Whether it's people of other races, nationalities, religions, different looks or political beliefs. This Interpletion, therefore, is not the opening of historical issues, encouraging debates or perhaps imposing obstacles in some aspects of the past. It is, first of all, an invitation to all of us, here and now, to talk in a clear and unequivocal way about our present, but also our future. By the nature and character of the Ustasha regime, they have long said historical science and our Constitution, and the opening of these issues is both excessive and unnecessary, especially for those of us who have sworn to the Croatian Constitution, making a commitment to protect its values. But one of the key and universal symbols of the Ustasha regime is also a greeting, showing their willingness to kill, exterminate, and torture to the people of the same regime. It's a greeting for home-ready. This symbol of the creepy and re-converted abuse of the concepts of home and country, unfortunately in a quiet and undetermined demonstration in the early 1990s, received almost the right of citizenship, and even a group of Croatian defenders put it in their coat of arms. However, this creepy greeting has not been lost at all on its criminal basis and meaning, and there is absolutely no excuse for it to be used in our public space without clear criminal responsibility. Namely, he was a criminal greeting, and at times when, at the beginning of the war, the group of volunteers installed him in their coat of arms. By showing respect for the victims of these ranks, a group of our defenders, there is no reason or justification to show respect for that criminal symbol embedded in the coat of arms of the troops in which they participated in the Homeland War. Moreover, I would like to make it clear and make it clear that bringing the Homeland War into contact with any aspect of the Ustasha regime is a difficult and unacceptable insult for all Croatian defenders, for our blood-defended country, for the defensive, just character of the Homeland War, for aspirations and hopes, not only for Croatian defenders, but for most of our citizens, to create assumptions for the construction of democratic, plural, civilised, human and European society. We cannot accept any reason and no excuse by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Plenkovic's Committee for facing the past to tolerate, in any form, the emphasis of Ustasha greeting anywhere and any occasion. The panel with this greeting is equally malignant and dark, whether it is placed in Jasenovac or in Novska or anywhere in Croatia, and advanced and civilized countries show that there are no panels for such places. It is amazing to me that from today on in Croatia, along with this government that supports, unfortunately through this Committee, the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" are those most affected by these Ustashas in World War II, and I am sorry that there is no Mr. Popovec here today, nor Mr. Keatazi, to ask them what it feels like to be part of the ruling, who support the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" and who glorify the constitution. Isn't it legal, difficult to sanction the use of this symbol in Austria enough to confirm that as a civilized world, as it sees the constitution, as a version of the Nazi fascist movement, as the darkest period of European and world history. What we think, we believe, is that all Croatian governments, strong and unequivocally, should express their deep contempt and condemn the shameful episode of our history, to which, in good time and with great sacrifices, our ancestors, by mass participation in the anti-fascist struggle. I call on all of you, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, especially you from the ranks of the party, who are placed on the political right, to adopt together the conclusions of this Interpel, to testify that the existence of conservative, right-wing, populist parties in Croatia has absolutely nothing to do with the fascist-nascist Ustasha regime, which we are all condemning together, and that the defence of antifascist values, antifascism does not fall under any ban on the left-wing liberal parties and is not reserved only for the left. I am convinced that we will show the strength of our European orientation by unanimity in the unanimous acceptance of the conclusions of this Interruption. And lastly, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to make clear whether he supports the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready". Unequivocally, yes or no. I would also like to invite representatives of other parliamentary parties, MOST, the Living Wall, representatives who may not be here today to debate, to clearly and unequivocally say whether they support the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready". Yes or no, there's no hiding, as was the situation in the debate over same-sex couples. This is an important issue for the Republic of Croatia, Croatia must turn to the future, and to turn to the future, it must close its past and the people who forget their past repeat their tragedies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109038	Thank you. Continuing the esteemed colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me explain in a few words the content, differences and manner in which we have launched and applied this Interpellation Institute as representatives of the SDP Club of Representatives. Namely, on 5 November 2016 in Jasenovac was erected a monument of a tablet containing the carved words “For Home Ready”. Dear colleagues and colleagues in Jasenovac, at the site of the death camp, in a place where thousands and thousands of people were deported precisely by orders that ended with the words "For Home Ready". Dear colleagues and colleagues, when you decide to vote on this Interpellation, think about it a little bit, to feel like you read in a newspaper that someone, for example, Auschwitz, Dachau or elsewhere, has set up a memorial panel, which says "Arbeit macht frei" or "Sieg heil" or something like that. I think it would be an insult to all of us, even to those whom "for a home" does not mind. It would have come across the dismay of the whole world, and this memory plate in Jasenovac is exactly the same. There's no difference. However, she was there. And the government of the Republic of Croatia didn't have enough for six months to take the trigger, or, as they would tell me in Istria, the kacavida and move that board. And that's why, in April 2017, we from the SDP Club started this procedure, we collected signatures and sent this Interpeltion to all of us. It's been a year and seven months since then. And if we hadn't intervened a few months ago to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, if we hadn't spent all night here, if we hadn't showered you with hundreds and hundreds of amendments, we wouldn't have discussed this today. Because you, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues from the government, don't want to argue. You'd like to plant this under the carpet. And one policy led in Croatia, for domestic purposes, and another policy, when the president of the HDZ and the Croatian government sat on a plane and travelled to Helsinki, Berlin, Brookselles or wherever he didn't travel. However, these years and seven months that have not been discussed with Interpellation, which has not been discussed, have not done Croatia any good. And that is, the best way to do so is to say the letter of the Croatian Ombudsman Mrs. Vidovic, entitled "Relativation of Crimes NDH violates the fundamental values of the Constitution and the lack of reactions opens up a space of hatred." Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the greeting "For Home Ready", we are not just talking about the past. We are talking about the future of the Republic of Croatia because if we can't see the sins of the past, if we can't see what happened wrong, if we can't figure out why it's bad, then we can't even make sure this country doesn't do it again in the future. I hope, I really hope, that among you, respected colleagues and colleagues, primarily from HDZ, and then from other parties, there is at least someone who was in Berlin and who visited the Holocaust Museum. And that's what I'm asking you because I hope you read what's on the wall there. And there on the wall are the words “Prima Levia, ” which are very clear,“ It has happened, so it can happen again. ” "It has happened, it can happen again." And that's why we have to talk about this, so that in time, until the Fascision of society has reached that point, after which there is no return without death, we can prevent Croatia from ending up in a spiral of hatred and going to where no one else, warms it, deep in the heart, hopefully doesn't want to see it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me also talk a little bit about the legal aspect of this impelation. Unlike the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in November 2016 was not ready to react and did not know in which way to take that notor helmet and set the record, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia twice decided during 2016 on the character of the greeting “For Home Ready”. For the first time in the case "Miljak" and the second time in the case "Simunic" and in these cases he took a very clear position. Let me now, because of the importance of this debate, read in full what was said about the greeting "For Home Prepared" by the High Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia, and quoted in his decision the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Court, therefore, quotes: “It is an indisputable fact that, regardless of its original, Croatian, literary and poetic significance, it is also used as an official greeting of the Ustasha Order and the totalitarian NDH regime, which was also on all official documents, either in the original form - “For home and chieftains ready” or in its short forms, “For home ready” or “For home”, and which the movement stemmed from fascism, based, among other things, on racism, thus symbolising hatred for people of different religious and ethnic backgrounds, the manifestation of racist ideology, as well as the understatement of victims of crime against humanity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these are not my words. These are the words of the most important institutions on the ground of the Republic of Croatia that worry about respecting the constitutional order, both by the Parliament and by the Government, by other courts, by other bodies of the Republic of Croatia. The hate speech, and the hate speech all together must most resolutely say no. In this context, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the Constitution of this Assembly discussed and reached the following conclusions in December, from which I will read point 1: "Setting the memorial of the dead Croatian defenders, members of the HoS in Jasenovac, with the words "For Home Ready" in the coat of arms of the victims of this Ustasha camp and all victims of the Ustasha regime". Dear colleagues and colleagues, at that time he was a member of the Committee on the Constitution, for example, also today's president, HS. We made this conclusion together, by consensus in December, but neither that nor that, it wasn't enough for the government of the Republic of Croatia to take that kacavid, which I have already mentioned and done the only thing that was possible, and that's moving the board. And that's why we suggested these conclusions that are ahead of us today. I hope that when you make a decision on whether or not we accept these conclusions will take care of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, which is not and hopefully will never again be an island among other nations and countries. The Republic of Croatia, which is a proud part of the international community. The Republic of Croatia, which today, unlike NDH, is indeed independent, and which can truly exercise its sovereignty on its soil. And RH, which, unlike so-called. NDH can say "no" to occupiers and say "yes" to the future, "yes" to democracy, "yes" to freedom and "yes" to justice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, support this Interpletion and allow us all to move forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109040	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the respected Davor Bernardic. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109041	Thank you very much. Col. Bernardić, so we have a European day of memory of all the victims of all the meanings of totalitarian regimes, whether communist, whether fascist, whether Nazi or any of the victims in the 20th century of these malignant regimes. And of course we need to figure that out. I just didn't realize if they belonged here and meant the victory squad of the Croatian Army, the Croatian defence forces that can't be generational, live at that time, the ones that defended Vukovar in the most difficult place where 58 of them died and three others disappeared. But he was Jean-Michel Nicoleier. We're talking here, mixing pears and apples with deep drinking, we should honor all victims of totalitarian regimes, either Ustasha, whether Nazi, whether fascist and totalitarian. I'm asking you if you're referring to the winning Croatian army, if that's what you think, then we here cancel out the Homeland War Declaration that was brought into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109042	Dear fellow Bull, thank you, dear fellow Bull. We have a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109043	Jean-Michel Nicoleier certainly didn't know that "For Home Ready" was a Ustasha greeting and that under that Ustasha greeting he fought in the Homeland War. Unfortunately, one is the Homeland War, the Croatian defenders, their caps to the floor and everyone who died for this country. And we will not allow, trust anyone and neither will you to reduce the value of the Homeland War, to defile Croatian defenders by mixing them and bringing them into any connection with the Ustasha greeting "For the House ready", with symbols of fascist and Nazi Germany and its Quislin countries, such as the NDH, under which we are, I will remind you of the loss of Dalmatia, Istria, islands, whose regime killed several Croats, not only the Serb, not only the Jews, but the Roma, but the Croats, but what killed them in the homeland war. You forgot that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109044	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109045	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Bernardic 232. With all the totalitarian regime, every victim who died, who suffered from the letter U on a five-point star drop, from the Chetnic Kocard, which is a Chetnik monument, we have 39 in Croatia, I'm talking about Croatian troops, the Croatian Army unit that defended our Vukovar, in Dubrovnik Srđ at the fairship. We're talking about two different things. We have the Homeland War Declaration, the Racan government brought it here during the time. I'm talking about the Homeland War, do you mean the Croatian defence forces and their blood that died under the markings of the Croatian Army? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109046	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, please don't abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure has not been injured. Your colleague Bernardić may not have understood you well but the Rules of Procedure have not been injured and you have called on the wrong article of the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt. ... Thank you very much, colleague Bernardic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We propose to the next line, respected counterpart Josip Djakic replicates his respected counterpart Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you explained your interpretation to your colleague Bernardić, and it's a miracle that you didn't put a Croatian kuna in it as a coin that also served the Ustasha government. It is a miracle that you did not put in this interpretation a Croatian coat of arms which was also dated at the time of NDH. And I'm actually worried that you didn't put Nikola Šubić Zrinski in this interpretation, too, because she's associated with "In a Battle for Home and Homeland". And it's actually unclear how you don't say a word to that bloody five-point star who's also bled so many hands that these young men under that coat of arms have been unbound with any uprising defending the Croatian homeland. It's actually a miracle, and I'm impressed that in any of your presentations, you haven't mentioned all the evils of a five-pointed star.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109048	I thank my colleague Djakic. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109049	So now you've mixed up Nikola Šubić Zrinski and all sorts of things in your debate, only I can wish you welcome to the evening welcome to the Croatian Parliament with a good morning, welcome because you obviously slept through this part of the afternoon and this part of the debate. And as for this SDP and not only the SDP, but all of Croatia and all its citizens absolutely condemn all crimes, were they under the communist or fascist regime, only today are we talking about the abuse and use of the fascist greeting "For the House ready" and the condemnation of the Ustasha regime under which many people in Croatia were killed, innocent, different, Serbs, Jews, those who were different in religious, national or sexual or political beliefs. That's what this is about. And until you accept that, until you fence yourself from that policy, we can't even move forward. You have to be aware of that. As for the Croatian defenders, he drops them to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109050	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardić for his reply. We're moving on to the replicas of the esteemed colleague Peggy Grbino. We've got three replicas, the first to come by the line is a respected colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109051	Your Honor. The Ustasha regime NDH was punished for what it did and for what it did not. In the Homeland War, if someone under the name "To Home Ready" did anything and he was probably processed. And I wonder what time we live here. Did we forget the Homeland War, did we forget the crimes of a five-point star under which two Croatian directors from Vladimir Grbin of Pula, who fled to Serbia, were killed in Mali Losinj, where he found protection. Are we here to investigate the crimes committed against Croatian defenders while our memories are still fresh? That's what we're talking about, not World War II. Get out of your bloody past and enter this present given to you by Croatian defenders and condemn All totalitarian regimes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109052	Dear colleague Culey, we hear you very well, we also have a voice in the Croatian Parliament so you do not have to raise your tone. Here's hoping that your colleague, the coat of arms, heard you well, so we have an answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109053	Thank you for asking, Mr. Vice President, the sight of my request for help, my hearing is still not. Let me read something to you, dear colleague Culei. Listen to me. I know that among these young people there were also Croatian fanatics, Croatian people who had Croatian ideals, but it is amazing that those who wear black shirts and fascist markings from the lost Second World War are sitting on them. Which would have been from Germany if it had continued on the black shirt and brown shirt traditions it was one of the main obstacles to Croatia's international recognition. It's something the world can't accept. Today's world is built on the principles of that anti-fascist coalition, a democratic order is sought for many reasons. Dear colleague Culey, do you know who said this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109054	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. We have the next line, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109055	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Grbin, if we don't do well, it's a question of who, will allow the hate speech sometimes, to relativize the crime of NDH, which actually makes the future of this country, what does that mean for future generations of this country? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109056	Thank you, colleague Grbin's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109057	In almost all modern democratic countries, the relativisation of criminal denial is a criminal offence, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. And that's not for no reason, the reason is very simple, first it starts with the relativization of the crime, then over time the crime is forgotten, then after that they start looking for new enemies. As a rule, these enemies seek the weakest social groups, those who do not enjoy majority protection. They are sometimes members of national minorities, sometimes people who are same-sex orientations sexually, they are sometimes poor, etc., and in the end fascism comes for everything. And that's why, and that's why we have to talk about this subject right now before we get to a point where there's no going back, before we go back to where we were unfortunately once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109058	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109059	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, my colleague Grbin, I am building on all the crimes committed in any war, but let's remember the beginning of the Homeland War in Croatia where all the Croatian symbols were Ustasha, where every symbol that happened and when people wanted to, they were all Ustasha and finally we saw what we experienced from the five-point regime. They go to war, to kill the Ustashas, never will the uprising stop as long as they sit as you are in the assembly, because you produce it, and not the Croatian people who are nowhere in the pits there are those who want to rise up, it is you who want to raise the uprising in fact to embarrass us as a state, not to raise us up the state. The country is free Croatia thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109060	Thank you, dear fellow Music, for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109061	A respected colleague, if only the Ustashas had defended Croatia in 1991, would likely have ended the Homeland War as well as when the Ustashas fought in World War II, which is their defeat. Croatia was defended by everyone. Croatia was defended by everyone. And what you claim to be Croatian symbols were banned, the chess shop was part of the Croatian coat of arms, the tricolour was a Croatian flag, and as it was called, as the Socialist Republic of Croatia was called at the time, please remember, as the Croatian anthem was called in '85, it seems to me "Beautiful Ours", I also have in my Istria "A beautiful country of the Istrian family of Croatia" which was also an Istrian anthem and no one respected us for it. And dear fellow Mishic, I was hoping that when Mr. Culej didn't already know whose words were which I had read before, at least you would say it. And you know who they were, Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109062	Thank you, dear colleague Grbino, for your reply to the replica. Maybe a government official would like to give an explanation. Please, Your Honor, Minister of Justice Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given written evidence, but let me say a few more words on this subject. We have given a clear indication of all three points that this interpretation offers, but in any case the debate on interpretation still a good opportunity for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to repeat its position on totalitarian systems, on their inadmissibility, and, among other things, on the inability to use symbols and everything that actually enlarges totalitarian systems. I think that we as a society are very strongly defined and that we have very clearly set up valuable courts both on NDH and on all other totalitarian systems in the original foundations of our Constitution where we dispute in principle general and some participation in the legal continuity of such a creation. It is clear that we are in the position of condemning everything that has been happening in that system. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we all act in these frameworks that our Constitution has given us and that we all stick to it. This Government of the Republic of Croatia is extremely aware of this and in one actual programming document it also highlights these values of which we do not deviate. I must say, I myself was a member of the Committee on the Constitution relating to that panel in Jasenovac and together with my colleagues, in fact, from all the options presented in this House, I took part in making those conclusions where we all unanimously condemned that setting up those records in that place in Jasenovac was really not appropriate and that it could certainly be difficult in this place for all those victims who had suffered in Jasenovac and who had experienced that terrible fate. And after that joint upheaval, the government of the Republic of Croatia made efforts with those who set up that board, we were actually having talks and, as a result, the panel was removed, moved to another place, which some will say, is not a permanent solution. However, on that board, I must say, we look at it in a way that it is not a splendor of NDH, it is not by us the excelling of Ustasha crime, it is not a support of all of it, it is simply a relationship with those people who died defending the Republic like this in these dimensions, in this form, on these foundations, it is a democratic RH that actually propagates the freedoms that are equality, which are guaranteed by the Constitution and therefore it is a very sensitive issue because these people really did not glorify the constitution and all that was happening in NDH. These people were generally killed defending the Republic of Croatia, which was both territorial and in every way threatened. So, here, there was a certain way of agreeing with these people, the panel was removed somewhere else, but I think the efforts of the government of the Republic of Croatia were extremely important and here, the result was what it was. In front of all the governments that have been and who have actually done no intervention in this matter in either the normative system, or in any other, here's the step that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken, it has formed one Council on Facing the Past, some may agree, some do not have to agree with all those recommendations that it has made. It has made certain courts, it has made certain recommendations, and our body in the Republic of Croatia is working to see which recommendations, how to spend their lives. The whole series is, I must say, see for myself and we are witnessing that on this very complex issue and our courts are making different decisions in criminal proceedings, my colleague Grbin has now cited two decisions, not the Constitutional Court part of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court is a separate institution. He cited two decisions that speak and enter into the area, and which will likely be strongly reflected in the practice of others. We need to look at and see all of these recommendations that are given, we have a certain normative framework that allows us to sanction these unwanted phenomena, and therefore all of these situations that we have when a court gives us judgment in one way or another should actually be said that each case and every event is actually separate and each of them actually happened in some special conditions and it is difficult in some situations to underline the sign of equality. But those recommendations on them, our state bodies are still working. Under criminal law, we have one general criminal offence in art. In 325, from which it is actually possible to draw and sanction behaviors that are unacceptable, which are illegal, which offend the victims that occurred in NDH, but of course we condemn victims of all totalitarian systems and everything that has happened in totalitarian systems, is not acceptable to us. I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, here's the Justice Department that we come from, really this one, we work on these recommendations and we watch with the experts, we analyze this normative framework, so that our actions within the system are as good as possible. One of the recommendations that we have, for example, received from the attorney general to work on education, to work and as regards our judges and other officials, we are working on, of course we are working on, there is a judicial academy, it is the Academy in which we have an initial education for our judicial officials and that life-long insurance related to their actions, which is, once again, an independent institution managed by actually the leaders of the judicial bodies, and what in its programme really has education, among other things, will process these topics. As for all these decisions that we have so far, I think we will come to one uniform practice, to one uniform standard in the justice system, but as far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we are still firmly and strongly standing in the condemnation of all totalitarian systems, we are in fact truly sorry about all the victims who have tragically suffered, and among other things, clearly and in the NDH, in relation to which, in the original foundations of the Constitution, we have clearly defined ourselves as a society. And I think it's some kind of foundation that no one can back down from, and so it's clear that every government and this one and all of these before it must stick to the Constitution. But we have opened certain processes through and through the Council for the Facing of the Past, we have recommendations and, in the context of these processes, we are actually implementing recommendations into the system, I think we will come to a possible and better practice. No matter how many questions we face, and about the future where we want to create conditions in society that our people have jobs, that young people are not leaving us, that we increase the social gross product, that we reduce public debt, it is clear that we will not abandon this issue, that we will work on this issue exactly and on the basis of the recommendations made by the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109064	I thank the Honorable Minister for this explanation of the government's report. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109065	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, taking care of the economy, taking care of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, does not mean that we must neglect all other things that as politics, politicians, government, members of the government, ministers and so on should be dealt with. This question may not seem as important to someone at first sight as to worry about GDP growth, but it is. In some segments, maybe more importantly, because when there's an attack on people, when there's physical violence and when there's a loss, and hopefully not, human lives, then we'll be wondering why we haven't done something before. You mentioned that the previous governments may not have done more work here than this, but a respected colleague, and you, and I know that the bottle spirit let Karamarko and his arrival at the helm of HDZ. Before that, from 1991 to today, no one in Croatia had thought to write in Jasenovac for home ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109066	Thank you. I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. Answer to the line, Your Honor's Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109067	Dear colleague Grbin, that's exactly what I said. Regardless of the importance of these economic issues that we are dealing with, for which we find solutions every day, I haven't diminished the question of what you've asked. And he just said that we as a government have formed a Council for Facing the past that has made certain recommendations and we are working on them. I have not questioned at all the importance of each other, we are working on both, and on the other, and we believe that it is extremely important and that this issue be devoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109068	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109069	Mr. Minister, he's trying to get through the thesis that there, greetings for home ready, is from NDH, but that in some way he's been aborted by the members of the Hos in the Homeland War because they fought and so on, so no one's arguing, but let's just a little bit, let's take this one, look at another thing. When the anniversary of a unit of HOS is celebrated on April 10th, the unit bears the name Rafael Bobana, wear black uniforms and this one, and on the coat of arms is the inscription for home ready. So, there used to be an association game in Kviskotec, so that there would be no association to what it associates us with, the organizer said: "The 100-year dream of Croatian freedom came true briefly in 1941 by establishing an independent state of Croatia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109070	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. The Minister of Honor's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109071	Dear colleague Bauk, I was talking about those victims where the panel was prominent in Jasenovac. Whether someone wanted it or not, regardless of the coat of arms, regardless of the inscriptions, these are Croatian defenders who died in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109072	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. We have another replica of the Ministerial Reason of the Report, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109073	Dear Minister, all totalitarian regimes are evil, we have victims. I'd like to ask you a question, since exactly a member of the government was on Storm Day in Backo Palanca. At that time, Chetnik Vukic said, I will quote exactly what he said: he compared Croatia, that Croatia is against Serbs, without Serbs, and as Hitler's Germany without Jews. What is your position on that statement by Vukic and on that party was your member, your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac? How do you comment that the Chetniks on the winning Storm are hitting Serbia in this way, and the majority member is next to that Chetnik Vukic, who was hoarding his people in Croatia's Glina? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109074	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109075	Dear Representative Bulj, Action Storm is a magnificent action that we give recognition to every year at the same time, and I do not have the need to comment on politicians' statements, because he has already explained his statements and his actual actions where he has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109076	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109077	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers, respected ministers, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Imagine the situation that at the football stadium, Allianz Arena, a few hundred kilometers from us crowds shouting Sieg Heil!, imagine that in the Olympic stadium in Rome, a crowd yells Viva il Duce!, what would it feel like to wake up, not only among us representatives, but also to the citizens of Croatia? Would we have thought deeply and wondered what kind of world we live in today? Unlike Croatia, the countries I have previously cited have recognised the dangers such greetings and such symbols represent, and these countries have clearly been legally determined that the use of symbols and greetings of these regimes is punishable. In addition to Germany, Italy, and neighbouring Austria, and far away Australia, they showed awareness that the greatest evil in mankind’s history was done under such greetings. In recent days, the Austrian government adopted an amendment to the Law extending the list of banned symbols and included Ustasha symbols on the list. And Australia has made it clear what it thinks about the tolerance of the constitution and the propagation of fascism in Croatia by canceling the visa to the man who used Ustasha symbols. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the emphasis on fascist, Nazi, Ustasha symbols and passwords. It's not about showing your own beliefs, it's about fostering hate and spreading impatience to people just because they're different because they're other religions or other nations. Our club is clearly determined by the propagation of both the Nazi and fascist and Ustasha regimes, a regime that is contrary to the foundations of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is a state that rests on anti-fascist foundations, which is clearly established in the original foundations of the Constitution. Therefore, any attempt to relativise and rehabilitate the constitution particularly through the greeting "For Home Ready" which is often the case lately represents an attack on the very foundations of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Croatia. Our club points to a fundamental need, that in the first place, we MPs begin to protect the values contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that these values are finally being applied in everyday life. Our colleagues and colleagues in Croatia are talking about a serious social problem, a problem that requires, first of all, a decisive response from the state, and also through criminal sanctions, because the situation is getting more out of control every day in a way that is constantly expanding and moving towards the expense of historical facts. EU member states, neighbouring and friendly countries, are passing laws, laws that protect against fascist incidents. While in Croatia we are indecisive and indecisive, we are in an unnecessarily needed situation to be stigmatized as a state. Don't we need more warning than the devastating fact that according to the results of the latest research, the political literacy of students and pupils of the secondary schools in Croatia, even half of them, is not sure whether NDH is a fascist form. Let us look to the countries where young people go to us, which have a zero degree of tolerance to fascism, we are classified, if we have already made a number of compromises when we enter the EU, then let us resort to developed societies and orderly states, which these countries, developed countries have very precise and clear both towards fascism and Nazism, and it is indeed time for Croatia to finally do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109078	I thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109079	Honorable Vice President, Ministers, MPs and MPs. It is more than a mere coincidence, so it will be a happy circumstance for us to discuss this interpretation on November 29th or November in a symbolic atmosphere of Yugoslavia's avionic heritage from which they were born and inspired by this interpretation and its promoters. The first question to be asked, which is why this pointless interpretation is motivated. From the headline of a confusing and unsettling explanation, she was motivated by the reportedly frequent abuse of greetings "For Home Ready". However, the content suggests that the motivated exclusively legal Jasenovom memorial is marked by the dead members of HOS who, as it is even known, were removed long ago, more precisely on the incentive of the government of Master Andrej Plenkovic, moved to the location of Trokut Novska. This so-called. Moving aside from the Kunktatoric importance of Plenkovica government and politics has only further confirmed the legality of the incriminating symbol and coat of arms of HOS, including its integral part of the greeting "For Home Ready". Thus, setting up this memorial feature can no longer serve as any reason for the submission of the parliamentary interpretation, the other cause has neither, nor can it be. So-called The frequent abuse of the "Home Prepared" greeting is a premeditation of the interpreters of interpretation and part of social media and academics, and intellectual activists, the so-called left, so it is pointless to discuss anyone's fantasy that does not have a standstill in reality. When it comes to historical character, ideological iconography, over the past months we have been able to read exclusively about the public emphasis of Soviet and communist traits such as hammers and red star five-pointers on various marginal social gatherings, where they participated or organized them among other prominent party members, interpreters of this interpretation, so no one has thought to use it to abuse the Croatian public, spread moral panic or to endure parliamentary interpretations. This today's pointless 29th November parliamentary debate began several days ago, uninvited and uninvited female attorney, who, in addition to her authority and any intellectual competences, held herself in the spirit of the chairman of the SUBNOR municipal committee or the reference to the DSZ, gave a public statement on what fascism is, which is antifascism, dared to give the quasi of the historical lesson on World War II and so on. I blame it or so on. The right sides don't know anything about it, of course, except cheap ideological flossules. If the government had held the majority in this House to the dignity of the Croatian people and the state and to the dignity of the responsibilities and institution of the Ombudsman, yesterday, a procedure would have been launched to resolve the esteemed lady, allowing her to continue her career in two possible directions. In accordance with her historical or political ambitions. When it comes to the motives of formal applicants of this interpretation of part of the SDP Club then, in the meantime, I only notice the paradox that a part of the signatories is no longer in the SDP but has adapted to Plenkovic's instant proposed majority through the Milan Bandic Club, so we have an unrecorded situation that stands for the interpretations and part of the so-called. The opposition and part of the government's parliamentary majority, when it comes to the SDP motive, is a banal and trivial, catastrophic state of one excessive and unnecessary party that was eventually revived from the dead in the summer of 1992 by electoral engineering and voice mailing, and to obstruct it, the so-called "Octrossion". A desirable opposition and the opposite of the unwanted. As Independent for Croatia, we do not want or need to enter the historical debate, neither the Ustasha movement, nor the greeting for home ready, nor the Yugoslav communism because we have made it clear, unlike many or most, and as individuals and as part of our civic professions as historians, we have written in our books and works. However, we need to remind ourselves in the context of the content of this interpretation as well as the occasional public debates that neither the constitutional preamble nor the Constitutional Court are in any composition nor will be considered scientifically untouchable facts nor historical unquestionable authorities. When it comes to preamble to the original foundations of the constitution, regardless of what we ourselves hold unnecessary, which in this form should be removed in the first subsequent constitutional procedure for the public and permanent interpretation of manipulations, and in this interpretation we want to make clear what I said and at the beginning of the entry into Croatia politics when I first entered this building in 2016 and what was imposed on me as Magnum Crimente was used as a toll for political execution. So, again, in the constitutional and legal sense, the modern Croatian state, the independent Republic of Croatia, is not based on any anti-fascism, word and notion of anti-fascism is not mentioned, not mentioned anywhere in the constitutional text, gentlemen of the SDPs and other constitutions of the intellectuals, including the civil defenders, take the constitution in your hands, read in peace, if necessary, Mr Bauk and before rest. The preamble stands for the following, paraphrasing, a thousand-year national self-preservation and statehood. Therefore, not today's Republic of Croatia but national self-resistance and state survival during history have proved to be from early medieval princes, among other things, in this historic series and decisions of ZAVNOH in 1943, declared as opposed to an independent state of Croatia, which has no value whatsoever, but is merely a finding of the notorous historical fact that the decisions of ZAVNOH were declared contrary to the Independent State of Croatia and not contrary to Burke's Faso, not less or less. If you want anything of us to think of the Independent State of Croatia in the constitutional text, there is no statement of any factual, valuable or any other court or assessment, nor of the Independent State of Croatia, nor of the circumstances of its creation and breakdown, nor of its legal order. If we want to know anything about the Independent State of Croatia, we will not find a letter in the constitution. So, no, there's no antifascism as the basis of anything, there's no ZAVNOH, there's no AVNOJ in terms of state base, there's no Otovac, there's no Topusko, there's no Eggs. It's simple, but many still unfathomable. In constitutionally-legal and factual terms, the modern Croatian state has several foundations but none on your or my grief is antifascism. We can outwit ourselves for as long as we want, but these are the only and incontrovertible facts. Following the manipulation of the Constitution, interpreters shall, as an argument, also introduce decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, both in former councils and in the present assembly, is the expression of the will of the parliamentary majority, therefore, the parapolitical body, a pair of excellences for dressed in black toga, the interruptors, including the lawyers, and a former minister of justice, obviously it is not clear that the Constitutional Court is not a judicial body and let alone quote "the highest court in the state", but the judiciary is also a generalis which in many countries does not exist at all. And in Croatia there shouldn't be, believe me, absolutely nothing would happen. However, we are sure that the public remembers the political maneuvers and blackmails that led to the fact that in the current meeting of the Constitutional Court, for example, such top legal and academic authority as people who were prominent officials of the very party of the interpretation Leko, Antičević-Marinović, Arlović, bars of Croatian legal thinking. We do not need to remind of any rumors that relate to the individual judges of that court, as well as parts of their wisdom that are quoted and interpreted, show all the historical and sociological indifference of that body. Only one who knows nothing about Croatian history can claim that the greeting with a raised hand is known as "Saluto Romano" Roman greeting, a Nazi greeting. Since this greeting was used primarily by many others in the 20th century by Italian fascists, the proponents of ideology differing significantly from those not called Nazi but called national socialist. It is not good when this attribute is socialist, so when it is left out by people who were mostly members of such socialist and communist organisations because it may be thought that it may not only demonstrate their own ignorance but also hide a part of their own past. To claim that the greeting "To Dom is ready" as such is unacceptable because it was used by the Ustashas, or the NDH authorities, is unacceptable because if it wants to be consistent then the same argument should also require the renaming of the Croatian coin. So for several reasons, "For Home Ready" will not be anything, I made it clear that the ancient paleo Croatian greeting but was used before NDH. Kuna, not Kuna's fur, has never been forged nor printed Croatian money except at NDH. Interestingly, though, her renaming today does not require those who opposed her in 1994 at the time of her introduction because they are perfectly satisfied when they get their silver coins right in Croatian kunas. In conclusion, on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, I call on the applicants to withdraw this ideologically motivated nakarada from the interpretation and unless it is done by the Croatian Parliament to reject the proposed conclusions and send them to the place that Marks and Engels have intended for pro-tourolution Croats to the wasteland of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109080	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. Thank God we no longer celebrate 29.11. We live in the Republic of Croatia and today is a working day, so this is at the agenda and at the meetings of the Government, or Parliament, I apologize. We have, on behalf of the proposer, a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109081	What do you say, what message do you send after this? So, I will quote one prominent Croatian historian with two sentences, firstly that Ustasha crimes are the greatest moral collapse of the Croatian people and secondly to use selectively completely peripheral statements drawn out of context more than 20 years ago from his youthful and student period represent the most ordinary political manipulation. So then Mr. Hasanbegovic, a prominent Croatian historian, reminded us of his best, the best of his political history. In 2005, a colleague, Hasanbegovic, the Croatian Parliament, on the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism, brought the Antifascism Declaration. Then, otherwise, that Declaration was accepted with maybe 3 to 5 votes against, perhaps now that number would be something greater which only shows the need, for 3 I know for sure, let's do that, so maybe now, maybe that number would be bigger as it just shows the need as a colleague Grbin said at first to discuss this and not to keep quiet about what's going on. As you in your debate referred to the Constitution by giving a rather creative and unusual interpretation then I must remind you of what the Croatian Parliament said in 2005 with this large number of votes far greater than the majority needed to adopt the Constitution. Among other things, the Croatian Parliament stresses that the values and the high contribution of the Croatian people to the fight against fascism in World War II have been incorporated into the foundations of an independent Republic of Croatia in the original foundations of the Republic of Croatia, which have been affirmed and the decisions of ZAVNOH. Point 4 confirms that the fundamental values of anti-fascism are uniformly accepted in the Republic of Croatia. Right now, we can discuss whether it's like this today. It invites the Croatian Parliament to permanently affirmate and cultivate antifascist values and protect and preserve the gains of antifascism. It stresses the deep and lasting link between Croatian anti-fascism and the general democratic gains and the construction of modern democratic Europe. Emphasises the importance of European choice today's victory over fascism as Europe's day recalling that the foundations of the EU are linked to the victory over fascism and joining the European definition of democracy, freedom, tolerance, solidarity and rejection of every form of extremism and totalitarianism and calls on the state bodies of public institutions to objectively, impartially and impartially look at the historical period of 2nd century. war and anti-fascism in the Republic of Croatia, unequaling anti-fascist movement with the ideology of communism. This is what the Croatian Parliament brought in 2005. Therefore, your subsequent interpretations of the Constitution on how or how NDH is not determined, I invite you to do something that is normally good to do, which is to go to the Assembly archive and look at the debates from the '90s. g at the adoption of the Constitution. So, in the saying, some MPs asked what you are today asking for ZAVNOH to be kicked out of the Constitution and were said to be rejected by the HDZ leadership of that time. Therefore, the will of the constitutionmaker in the '90s. This is exactly how the Croatian Parliament interpreted it in the anti-fascism declaration, not the way you interpret it. But refer your initiative to the procedure and we'll see how it goes when constitutional changes are made, and you can try to initiate them yourself. To conclude, this debate of yours, it just shows the justification, the need and the justification of our interpretation, and if there was a dilemma about it, whether it should be discussed, whether these conclusions should be made, I believe that you are largely those who look at us and who think they were in a dilemma, that dilemma has been clarified and that you have fully justified this action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109082	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We have replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109083	... to melt the lie detector. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm asking you this, when you were singing the birth mother 2... Son, Tito and Stalin are still singing it, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why for 3 declarations of the European Parliament, 3 declarations of condemnation of all... regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're defending the bloodiest... in Europe, west of the Urals, it's this communist system, which has killed more people than all the darkened sides and you're dealing with beautiful curtains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let me ask you here, you did not object, who rebelled here in this assembly when Mr. Oborsnel welcomed his election victory there, from Petrograd with... and de facto defended the largest criminal organization in the history of Europe that killed 10 million people of the Soviet Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That doesn't concern you. Why didn't you rebel against Ustasha and those neo-Nazis in '90? When did you have the time? And what they wore on the scheme was those who attacked Skabrna, Vukovar and others. Why are you keeping your mouth shut about this? And now you're getting up, now you're shitting yourself here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109084	I thank the esteemed colleague Glasnović, I kindly ask you not to use such words in the Croatian Parliament, there is a way to express yourself and articulate your views in an appropriate, cultural and appropriate way in the Croatian Parliament. We have an answer, dear colleague Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109085	Mr. Glasnović, when you will be here at the Assembly in Croatia, as they are called the NDP... No, no, no, you weren't on the team, these on the right. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I have to admit that I would have been a little hurt if you hadn't come to me for a replica of this debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Invadica Brkic: Col. Glasnović, please allow colleagues Bauk to speak.]] So when you're replicating me and disagreeing with me on these issues, I'm just more convinced that I'm right. I'd even be sorry if you hadn't called me back. So point 8. The declaration says that the Croatian Parliament does not equate the anti-fascist movement with the ideology of communism, and as far as the victims of communism are concerned, the SDP is told in a historical declaration in 1990 of what some in his name have done to people for their political belief in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109086	Thank you. Dear colleague Glasvnić, based on art. In 239, I give you a warning, and I beg you to stay away, and you enter the word while others speak. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109087	Dear Mr. Bauk, don't be ridiculous. In a civil political sense, that so-called. declaration, more specifically the Declaration of the so-called ‘Declaration’. It also obliges antifascism as the statute of your party and as the statute of the scout society or Djakic's hunting society. As far as I'm concerned, free from the text of that particular declaration since 2005 so-called You can make antifascism a paper airplane. As for the will of the 1990 constitutionalist that I know the constitutional will of course is a changing historical category and our political goal is to contribute to such a future constitutional majority that all this I said will be able to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109088	Thank you, dear colleague Hasanbegovic, for the replica. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109089	I thank my colleague Hasanbegovic. As for the value of the Croatian Parliament's declaration of anti-fascism, there are several other declarations, it has about the Homeland War, do not verify the parliamentary declarations, neither about this Homeland War nor about anti-fascism. It is now proposed or will be proposed on the position of the Croatian people in the BIH. Or they think it sucks so you'll make a plane out of it. As far as parliamentary declarations are concerned, they have a certain weight, and you don't need to verify them, because then you're deniing others who might not want to. You know, that's one side effect, like those drugs for some diseases. But as far as the Constitution is concerned, constitutional will is variable, but it's since the '90s. unchanged and will not be changed as our living heart beats in this case Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109090	I thank you for your response, next replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so my colleague Bauk seems to me that there is an ex-sense in the Club of the SDP, how that "For Home Ready" didn't bother you in 2002 when your minister verified the stamp and that name and the cry "For Home Ready" to the Association of Volunteers of the Croatian Armed Forces of the City of Zagreb, how then you didn't react, how you wanted to put it in interpretation and on the burden of this Government today, how in 2002 could the submission of the registration of the association be accepted, certified and that the association is legally registered which has a name, flag and mark registered by your then Christmas system. It's actually disturbing what an ex-post mind you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109092	I thank my respected colleague, Djakic. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109093	Better to make up for his wits than never after. In 2016, therefore, one state administration office disputed the registration of an association that had that name in its coat of arms, which was referred to the ministry, so the complaint was returned, so this government was already there. In the meantime, in 2016, two rulings of the Constitutional Court came and then each official or any responsible or authorised person in the state body had the basis to be called upon when a decision was taken to refuse registration, and to be sure that this would not fall in any court, whether by administrative or constitutional court. And since then, we have constitutional and judicial practice that all those who decide to stick to because of the constitutional law in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109094	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for your reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109095	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected ministers and secretary of state, secretary, the HDZ Representatives' Club supports a report by the government proposing not to accept a proposal for conclusions from the attached interpretation. Namely, this government is the first to decide on this issue to approach systematically and institutionally in order to finally relieve Croatian society of division burdens from II in the 21st century. World War I. Unlike the signatories of this interpretation who are members of the pause who twice acted in the Republic of Croatia and whose unit of initiative is related to the resolution of this topic exactly to the submission of this interpretation and nothing more than that. Therefore, at a meeting held on 2 March last year, the government decided to set up a Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democracy regimes whose task, among other things, was to make recommendations on legal regulation of use and to highlight the character of the signs and symbols of non-democratic regimes. So the decision on this matter was left to experts, not to politics. This council was composed of pluralist from people of different worlds. Here, it should also be said that the Government's programme for the 2016 term of office. In 2020, as one of the main starting points, it envisions the condemnation of all the non-democratic systems that have caused tragic sufferings, persecutions and the liquidation of political insinuators in Croatia over the past century. Although all totalitarian regimes are non-democratic and although not all non-democratic, totalitarian should be made clear here that fascism and communism in the past century are based on totalitarian and thus non-democratic regimes. There's no need for any more discussion about their differences. Fascism puts a particular nation and its rights on the other as a rule of less valuable nations, justifying the cleansing of the nation from its foreign elements as well as conquering wars to spread the living space of its own nation. While communism puts a class and class struggle as a fundamental driving historical force and ideologies to be mastered by the world and also under the direction of one authorised political force of the pause or party as an avant-garde such struggles with connection with the administrative system as a whole and subordinated repressive apparatus, it carries out mass persecutions and victims of a class enemy as well as democratic ones. the enemy elements even realizes a comprehensive power in all segments of society. And therefore, as from other thesises that I will make very clear, to anyone who is not up to the cheap passing and collecting of political points, it is clear that the issues from this interpretation of the relativisation of Ustasha crimes and the acceptability of using signs are completely incorrect and politically incorrect. It is a constitutional provision, and that has already been said here before me in the original grounds that they are the foundations of state sovereignty in period II. The world war expressed contrary to NDH's declaration in the decisions of the Earth's anti-fascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia 1943. In addition to the Constitution itself, Croatia has incorporated a series of laws into its legal system all relevant international conventions, and the parliamentary declarations have clearly defined its national political orientation when it comes to such matter, which aims to preserve the dignity of the pities of victims of the former non-democratic regimes, preventing discrimination, spreading violence, hatred and all forms of impatience, condemning human rights that are particularly affecting individual and minority rights, and prohibiting the obstruction of public order and the peace of hate that encourages violence, such as the International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, the Declaration of Antifascism, the Law on the detection, marking and maintenance of the graves of communist crime victims after II. the world's work. Here I will immediately look back at the points from the conclusion of this impelation. When we talk about the first point in the conclusion, we should stress that the greeting "For Home Ready" is originally a Ustasha greeting that the regime was for every conviction. This is what the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has declared in several of its decisions, the case of Miljak and the case of Šimunić, and most directly in its decision of 10 October 2017, in which it annulled the decision on the name of the Street on 10 April in Slatinski Drenovac. In that decision, the Constitutional Court stated that the well-known historical truth was that NDH was a Nazi and fascist form and as such was an absolute negation of the legitimate aspirations of the Croatian people for their own state and a severe historical abuse of these aspirations. Therefore, according to the original basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is not a follow-up of NDH on any basis. The Constitutional Court stressed that these constitutional legal views are not only related to street names, settlements, symbols and the like but are already the principles of the Constitutional Court's position on the character of NDH as a negation of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. For these reasons, therefore, the greeting "For the House is ready" is the opposite of the Constitution and as such cannot be used in public use. In doing so, I will remind myself of article 39. A constitution that prescribes that any call for war or the use of violence against national, racial or religious hatred or any form of intolerance is prohibited and punishable. Otherwise, as we know, decisions of the Constitutional Court are mandatory and must be respected by every natural and legal person. The challenge, however, arises when the term "For the House is ready" lies on official memos, flags, coat of arms and logos of the Croatian Defence Forces because the fact that HOS was from the beginning was a party army but their troops were translated into Croatian troops and thus legalised. And it is also a fact that this expression in the official features of HOS for more than 4 centuries de facto and de jure are linked to the Homeland War. Since the HOS troops under this greeting were not fighting for NDH but were fighting in a fair, defensive and liberating Homeland War for independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia. By the failure of the competent authorities and both local self-government and state administrations of the Ministry of Administration, for example at the time of the two SDP governments, various HoS associations have been registered with the controversial greeting "For the House ready" and use it as such as it has been stated in more than 4 centuries. It is therefore an administrative practice which has been tolerated by the competent authorities. Therefore, as the Council for the face of the consequences of totalitarian regimes has pointed out in such a situation, democratic societies must come from the necessity of balancing the public interest that this greeting does not appear in public space on the one hand, as well as the rights of Croatian defenders to respect military insignments with a controversial greeting under which they fought in the Homeland War for the Democratic Republic. Therefore, the Council also proposed that the use of disputed insignments should be strictly linked to events where, in public places, even cemeteries, respecting defenders who died for Croatia while fighting under these insignations. The above-mentioned exceptions to the use of this greeting would be unconstitutional. It should therefore be clear here that, under specific circumstances, an exception can be considered when it comes to the public use of the 'Home Ready' greeting. Some Croatian military formations originally established outside the regular defence regularity units of the Republic of Croatia used the greeting as an official mark on all flags, coat of arms, etc. during the period 1991 to 1995 when they fought in the Homeland War for the Democratic Republic and that there should be no obligation to remove the disputed greeting... Insignia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the use of controversial military insignments should be strictly linked to events where public places show respect for defenders who died for the Republic of Croatia fighting under these insignations. It's a possible exception to the blank ban. Such a position was also taken by the Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes, since it recommended sanctioning the symbols of totalitarian regimes, and the exception that the greeting "For the House ready" could be used for commercial purposes with prior permission. The Council recommended that this greeting could be used in very limited and exceptional situations related to the setting up of the HoS plate in Jasenovac, it should be reiterated that this greeting can be extremely used only on the coat of arms of HOS. A similar position has the use of the symbol of a red star five-pointed as well as other greetings and symbols from World War II. Some of these symbols, official greetings, and passwords are almost unambiguous and some are much more complex. Lastly, anti-fascist fighters were killed during World War II, but crimes were also committed against the people's enemies. Or by them during the Homeland War there was an aggression against the Republic of Croatia. In a similar way, the greeting "For Home Ready" is originally a Ustasha greeting but was also killed by Croatian defenders during the Homeland War. The red star of the five-point group is also part of the adopted European historical meaning regardless of its abuses by the communist regimes and the JNA during the Homeland War. Likewise, on the main holders of non-democratic regimes, NDH Anti Pavelic and SFRY President Josip Broz, who are certainly responsible for the crimes and violations of human rights from the regime on which they were headed, would probably not receive a consensus of some symmetric, legal or public conviction but, as with the use of those statements and symbols within the development of the rule of law and democratic and political culture, the parameters of the conduct of state bodies should be defined. It would be desirable to establish, legally or advisoryly, when some of the symbols and other contents will be held to the exception, without at the same time the social condemnation of their original or wider meaning. When we talk about the second point of the conclusion, it should be said that representatives of the association that set the record after contact with the representatives of the government moved from Jasenovac to the memorial of the Trokut Novska were raised in memory of the dead Croatian defenders in the defense of western Slavonia in the Homeland War. When we talk about the third point of the conclusion, it should be pointed out that the seal of the association of Croatian defence forces of the city of Zagreb, which placed in the municipality of Jasenovac, mentioned 11 Croatian defenders died in the area in the Homeland War, with the words "For the House ready" determined by the statute of the same association. This association was entered in the register of the Associations of the Republic of Croatia on 7 December 1998 and the first statute of association did not contain a controversial greeting until the amendments adopted on 29 December 2002 or the registration of those in the register on 10 April 2003 or at the time of the Government of Ivica Racan. Also at a time when my colleague Bauk was an official in the Croatian government. It is significant that during the second SDP, the Ministry of Administration did not answer the City General Administration's request from 2014, which asked for an opinion on how to deal with the statutes containing the House ready. Finally, it is a clear social need for a clear and unambiguous condemnation of all crimes of totalitarian regimes and movements, and fascist, and Nazi, and Ustasha, and Chetnic, and Communist, and there is no doubt and this must not be questioned. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will therefore propose to the Assembly a conclusion, which in the first point would reject the proposed interpretation for inaction with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the frequent abuse of the Ustasha greeting for home prepared. With that same conclusion, we will condemn all totalitarian regimes in the 20th century and propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt measures that would contribute to the reduction of tension in Croatian society and opposition in Croatian society, and precisely those resulting from this kind of interpretation that he provided, which was delivered by the signatories of this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109096	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bacic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109097	Mr. Bačić, you've been completely exposed, and you, and the intentions of this government, and your sentences clearly will reject your interpretation, is talking about your clear position to legalise the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting for home ready. And that's a clear direction of your government. And if you take a look at the report by the attorney general, Laura Vidovic, then you can see that during your government, there has been no treatment for violations and fascist traits, and my question is here today before you, what is the responsible resolution minister, Minister Bozinovic, Minister of the Interior? What does the attorney general do about it? Have they taken any action, what are the numbers, what are they doing about it? You are the occasional use of Ustasha greetings For a home ready, underlining the need to balance public interest, and if something good was noticed here today by Hasanbegović, then it is well noticed that you have de facto legalized, Plenkovic, HDZ, your parliamentary majority, your coalition, have legalized the use of this greeting. And that's why the incident often attacks on members of Serbian, Roma and other national minorities, which is why the relativisation of fascist crimes is happening, and unfortunately, in public space, it is not condemning it, it is escalating it. And Hasanbegovic when he was talking here, because he supported you, in that act of denying this very controversial thing, but it is not clear to me today why you are still being supported by representatives of minorities over whose people these terrible crimes have been committed, because you have just today confirmed that your Prime Minister and the president of the HDZ have legalized the occasional use of the Ustasha greeting for a home prepared by the independent state of Croatia which was independent, because it was under constant occupation both the Germans and the Italians. Nit was a state because she didn't even have the institutions of the state, all decisions were made by one man, without the Parliament, without the Government, and my god was Croatia, because it was not chosen by Croatians and Croatian citizens, but by a group of outlaws disembarked from Italy under Italian fascists' patronage. Even Nazi Germany nearly resisted this, this handful of misery that came from Italy to take over Croatia, and declared itself a people's government. And lastly, I don't feel comfortable unlike some in your ranks, when I see no symbol of any totalitarian regime. I don't feel comfortable, but I am disgusted to see the living people wearing Nazi-fascist symbols, under which they were brutally taken, killed, slaughtered, clans, raped members of the people who lived in Croatia, Serbs, Jews, Roma, and Croats, political non-insects, killed in World War II, more by the Ustasha regime than our fellow citizens died in the Homeland War. And that's what's horrible and embarrassing. People are imprisoned because of the regime, and with this Croatia needs to be crucified once and for all. And don't interfere, we can't let that happen, I'll fight it hard, every abuse and attempt to insinuate the cast of the righteous defense character of the Homeland War. Yeah, people went to war because they fought for their city, they fought for their country, they fought for their people, but they certainly didn't fight for the tips of the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109098	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, in my speech, made clear the Croatian Democratic Community's position towards the Ustasha regime, that's what you heard. But we in HDZ have no problem having equal deviations to all totalitarian regimes, which you have, and in that you do not have, you do not have credibility and cannot be objective. When you have equal deviations to all the totalitarian regimes that the Croatian Democratic Community has, then you can perform and ask for what you are looking for. The second thing, in the past 28 years, no government, including two SDP governments, has resolved the question that you are looking for in this interpretation. Now that this issue is trying to settle, in a way that does not open new divisions in society, it does not suit you and that is the problem of the SDP when he could do what he wants today and what he did not solve, and now he resents those who are trying to solve it in a way that is acceptable in Croatian society. without opening new divisions. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109100	...respected colleague Bacic. Answer, dear colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109101	Dear counterpart Bačić, you had a historic opportunity to make a historic consensus and then you would get the support of everyone in this hall to clear up once and for all with our past, turn to the future. You have failed to do so, but you have just relativized and allowed the use of that greeting through, as you say, the necessity to balance public interest. And in the SDP as we have clearly fenced ourselves, and I personally, of all totalitarian regimes, we have no problem with that, but we have a problem with relativisation and defacto what you represent today, and that is legislation, the laws of the Ustasha sign, that is what you have admitted, that is what you have done, that you have allowed along with your coalition partners and I am actually surprised that there are still representatives in it, especially the peoples who lost the most in World War II, Serbs and Roma.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109102	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109103	Dear fellow Bernardic, it is clear to me that in the absence of good initiatives or legal proposals, the SDP requires this interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the abuse of the Ustasha greeting "For a home ready" and that, in the absence of good initiatives or legislative proposals, you refer it to the HS, by sharing of course Croatian society because it is of interest to you, but that the attorney general whom you have actually mentioned as the authority of HS in the protection of human rights is unambiguous, untrue and ideologically speaking biasedly about the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is at least untasteful and to Croatian citizens. I understand her ideological bias, but I don't understand the abuse of her position and authority. Remember only Croatian officials who spoke about Ustasha snakes that continue to crawl into the Republic of Croatia, some NGOs in the Republic of Croatia, the Newsti weekly, the attorney general and the SDP, in fact, wants to internationalise this fictional and imposed topic, and the Croatian people actually want to get tired and even more. share and you are still in your president's position [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Milanovica... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] It's us or them. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109104	...respected colleague Babic. I'd like all my colleagues and colleagues to stick to the time planned for replicas. Answer, dear colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109105	So I'm going to have to tell you again, you're demassing yourself again, now you're attacking Lovra Vidovic because she warned about the facts. You from HDZ today might have been the smartest if you had kept this whole debate quiet, but no, you didn't, but you got involved and defacto yourself admitted and legalized what you did and now that you're still making an attack on the institutions, so I expect you to replace them, as you have removed Dinko Cwitan, who is now walking with 3 bodyguards, as you have removed Dalia Oreshkovic, as you have removed the Agrokor Committee. You can, it's just a question of how far?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109106	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109107	Dear colleague Bernardic, I listen to you, I keep listening, and I heard once from the party president who recently said that we should return to the Republic of Croatia the spirit of collectiveization of the 45th year. What does that mean? The constitution of that state failed, the experiment was based on Stalin's Constitution of the 36th year when millions, millions of peasants, when cannibalism was, became standard procedure in Ukraine, when the entire Ukraine was a concentration, which of you came to the wedding for those children? Millions, millions of children, nobody. Why is the Government still here cult Marxism, this is not a question "For Home Ready" call, but a question amnested by one of the largest criminal organizations in Europe's history, which is the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. I hope as a young man that you are the face of real social democracy, not the wires of the eights and the bullet in the head, that this system has killed more communism in Yugoslavia, killed more people than total Chetniks, Bulgarians and everyone else. If Serbia has this commission of war victims of communists, why not the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109108	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109109	I had nothing to do with the party, that party. And all crimes as a young man in the Republic of Croatia, I condemn. And crime has a name and a last name, and all war criminals need to be held accountable for what they've done, without exception, without exception, that's our attitude, and that's how we behave. But today this debate is too important for the Croatian future. That's why a people who are unable to learn from their past, often, will not always say, repeat their tragedies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109110	I thank my colleague Bernardic. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109111	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I condemn all crimes, all totalitarian regimes, including the Ustasha regime. But what I cannot allow is that you deny every Croatian defender who went to the trench and died for the Republic of Croatia, even under this greeting "For Home Ready". I don't remember in the country war you SDP protested publicly that you couldn't go to die for the Republic of Croatia under that greeting. So I ask you, are you hypocritical today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109112	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109113	Well, I lost a lot of my family in the Homeland War, including after the war, my father. But I'm not going to let you throw away your country war because one group of people trying to revive the past, one way or another, are trying very hard to connect it to the character of that war, it has nothing to do with each other. The Homeland War united the Republic of Croatia. He had a fair defensive character unlike this handful of misery that came from abroad and here, without the will of the Croatian people, without Croatian institutions, without practically the Croatian army, under a permanent patronage from practically the Croatian Army under permanent patronage, Germany, Italy sold Dalmatia, sold islands, sold Istria, sold Međimurje and killed people. It has nothing to do with the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109114	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109115	Thank you very much, fellow president. Well, you told your colleague Bernardiæ that you were taking off your hat to the Croatian defenders and that you were bowing for their sacrifice. I understood that by doing so and the context of greetings For the home ready that they used these same dead Hosov-ci also take off their hats, because the greeting For the home ready which was on their chests or on their sleeves is not compromised in the Homeland War, is not marked by fascism or a constitution because the Homeland War is characterized as just, defensive, liberating. I believe that's how you didn't want to attack left-wing President Ivo Josipovic when he decorated those members who died, posthumously decorated them with the greatest state honours such as... As well as the 114th brigade in which the 9th Battle of the Hos was in. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Not that greeting polluted by fascism in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109116	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djakic. The answer of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109117	Again, you're trying to connect the Homeland War and that greeting. That has nothing to do with each other. Don't do that. Shame on you. So you have one member, a member of the defense force. He's not here right now, Cresso White, and ask what he thinks about it. Jean Kulier what do you think he knew about the historical context of it? A man fought for the freedom of a country in western Eastern Europe, for the freedom of a nation, for human purposes. And those two battles have nothing to do with it. So the Homeland War is just, defensive, and this, this is a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109118	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109119	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bernardic, I thought that the 1990s was a time when we would hear about the revelations of the past and when that word would be used. However, I see that you are saying it again, renewing it, and that without reviving those tips of the past, it is losing every sense of the existence and operation of your political party. And here you have now revealed to the attorney general Lora Vidovic, therefore, who sees the Ustasication of Croatia in his report and claims, while others argues, that the international system of human rights developed after World War II in response to the horrors of fascism and Nazism and as a guarantee that such evil will never happen again. On the other hand, it affirms a totalitarian, communist system. Thus, according to its orientation, there is no reference to the horrors of communism condemned by the whole of Europe. As for the home-ready greeting, he was created far earlier and cannot be tied exclusively to NDH but has already been created as an expression of great Serbian aggression. So 91 years old...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109120	Thank you, thank you, dear colleague Škorić. The answer of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109121	So do you think I'm happy that today in the 21st century, in the end of 2018, we need to talk? Not that I'm unhappy, but I'm sad, I'm deeply sad because I'm listening, I'm watching, I'm looking at the staff's lawyer's report, I'm looking at the records, I'm looking at the media, I'm looking at the parades in uniforms, I'm looking at the crowd and I'm looking at those who are different in Croatia. Do you think that's good? Well, that's terrible. That today in the Croatian Parliament in the 21st century, 2018, we need to talk about it, that unfortunately, because you are unable to break up with that part of the past, when you are able, Croatia will be able to move forward. By then, we will be the hostages of those individuals in your ranks who continue to support the Ustasha regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109122	I thank you for your response to my colleague Bernardic. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109123	Dear colleague Bernardic, when I'm fed up with the blood of Croatian flesh, my soul hurts everything I hear tonight from you. Croatian defenders in the Homeland War did not go for revenge, did not go to commit crimes, but only for one purpose, to defend their country, their family and their home. I come from a region where 300 Croatian patriotisms were killed during the communist regime. I have to react to their honor because my conscience would burn me and you shouldn't go back to history. I can't believe a young man like you is making such a lie when it comes to Croatian defenders and patriots of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109124	I'd like to thank my colleague Lonchar. The answer of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109125	I'd like to replicate to you but obviously you didn't understand me at all. And as for the victims, there's only one thing I can express for any victim is my deepest compassion, my friend, every victim, anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109126	I thank you for your response to my respected colleague Bernardic. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAG Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109127	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, the opposition has the right to put one item on the agenda once a month, on the agenda, and so this month the SDPs collected signatures, and while we all expected that it would be some debate on performances, on minimals, on school textbooks, hungry children in schools, fighting corruption, resolving the situation in the judiciary, cancelling conversion and privatisation, however, the topic is II. World war. And when you don't know what would happen, when you don't know how constructively it would work, then always 100 times in a row you can recycle the story of Ustashas and Partisans. And now I could say as a historian who even doctored on topic II. World War I, great this is my theme now I can finally dominate with all the knowledge and books I've read over the decade, but neither I nor my colleagues from the Living Wall want to participate in this debate. I don't want to participate, not because I'm conceited, so I don't think a professional historian has anything to discuss about II. World war with physicists, doctors, building engineers, but because this isn't about history at all. Let history actually be politicized here in the most shameless way to collect cheap political points. Here history is consciously used to pollute public space, to challenge artificial divisions in our society occupied by foreign power centers, especially financially. Instead of working to unite those of us who are still here, and there are less than 4 million of us left, to extend our hands to each other and to unite ourselves in the fight for freedom, for sovereignty, for our children, for the better future, to fight for jobs, for decent pensions, for justice and for honesty, this high home is working on divisions, for the spread of depression, for the promotion of the poorest passions, and all in order for one's fathers party ratings to increase by half or 1%. And it's not the first time. Some MPs would be able to sit here, otherwise they're never here, but there are now, until the day of judgment, and talk about ideological issues, about records, about the names of squares, about which victims are more valuable than others, and people other than a few fanatics and if they talk about such topics or interests, or in reality can help them in any way. Because what has changed specifically since the panel was moved from Jasenovac to Novsk, which the president took the bust from one room to the yard, which changed since the work of the Council for the past, which changed in Zagreb by changing the name of the square, here you can tell me if the Zagrebs are better alive, worse alive, whether the mayor has changed yet, in which way it affects me who now has the opportunity to stay in Zagreb, why independent of Croatia do not support the budget when this main requirement for co-operation has been fulfilled. Have you read a recent interview with our emigrants who were forced to leave because here they can't find a job for a decent salary and when they asked them what you liked best about Croatia, they said nobody talks about Ustashas and Partisans and I feel happy. And now watch out in one London where they could say I have three times the salary, here's a better organisation of work, it's getting better, it's quieter, it says I'm happy because nobody talks about Ustashas and Partisans, because over the citizens of Croatia for three decades there's been mental violence committed by politicians over the people with their shabby manipulations about II. the world war with which you've already bored the gods and the devil. Gentlemen of the SDP, I'm speaking to you because you've opened up the topic in such a spectacular way of collecting signatures, I'm going to tell you this on good faith. Don't do that. This way, you take down a rating that's only been cut in half for two years. This has nothing to do with people's questions about who runs the party, who doesn't lead, but simply labeling people as fascists, Croatian citizens, or in any other way, systematic search for enemies in society, the systematic name of people, I don't know what kind of other recipients you've destroyed the image of your party. Why don't you deal with, instead of dealing with the welfare you have on behalf of you, dealing with workers, peasants, you're constantly working on some 70, 80-year-old issues and in fact sending a message that you're salon left-handed, in fact, classic American-type liberals. People who are interested in power, not in implementing a party program. Look back from the time of Zoran Milanović you dragged into your party the worst careers and catches that are only interested in sitting on budget and power. See how these same guys are running over to HDZ right now, the same ones who signed that declaration of yours will now vote against it. Why? Because the ideology and party program of your social democracy was just an excuse to come to power, not to believe. And now they've been the same since yesterday, quasi lefties, they've become quasi democrats, and I don't know suddenly the newly discovered believers. And that which you may dispute with me this day, let me know that Nazism is evil, so evil is, and rebellion is evil. Who would normally support a totalitarian regime that shuts down and kills their own citizens, hangs people in the streets, counts blood cells, divides people by skin color, religion, nationality, I don't know in all ways. Who supports Bolvism today in the Republic of Croatia? Who can support such a social arrangement as Stalinism that destroys an entire class of society or I don't know, a certain percentage of the population? Who in their right mind can say that, I don't know, Chetnya is anything good? When the Chetnik programme makes it clear that no Croats, no Albanian, no Turks, have lived in large Serbia, as they call the Bosniaks. We've condemned these things a thousand times and after a thousand times, you want us to condemn them for the first time. To what purpose? To judge something that is self-evident. Put your finger on Mr Bernardic here in the Parliament, so tell me those Ustashas, please, where, who is it, I don't know, I don't see them. There are no Ustashas, no Bolsheviks, no Chetniks in the Republic of Croatia today, if nothing else, because they are relics of the past that have suffered a severe and irrevocable defeat. There are a few rickets of individuals that will always exist as long as the world and the century is, and then you in collaboration with the media, you always find one that put a stupid cap on your head and then put it on the front page of the newspaper and say, "Here, RH is, I don't know, communist, Ustasha and I don't know what kind of thing." It's manipulation, it's not really a condition. And why do they do that? So precisely because they want Croatians, Croatian people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be divided, they want to become friends with a friend, acquaintance to a acquaintance, neighbor to a neighbor, brother to a brother. You've heard of that division, so rule. And if there are a couple of hundred fanatics and I don't know what kind of, not to say now, if you are among them, the Living Wall will rent you 200 acres of forest in Romania, go there, gather your team, take your hats, your clubs, your knives, whatever you prefer and play a big play off World War II, and when you figure out who won, let us know here in Parliament, we'll accept the results of whatever they are. And then once and for all, let's get this over with and let's know, here's what you and you and now okay, enough with it. What's the matter? History should be left to historians. History should be left to the education and education system, but you deliberately, even when the SDP was in power, did not allow it to be said, to write about it. Your Minister Zeljko Jovanovic deliberately reduced funds for social humanistic sciences because it suits him to politicise these issues, not to learn the truth. Everyone knows something about the constitution, the Republic of Croatia has no biography of Ante Pavelic, no biography of Tito, now a recent one has appeared, no book about Sutjesca, oh, I don't know, the Srijem front. Why don't you encourage scientists to do this and the more they're going to do, the more books, information and articles they're going to go on about it, the faster people are going to forget these things, the more they're going to experience them as a kind of thought entertainment. Let's be like Slovenians, they dug up, explored and processed every cemetery, no matter whose. Let's be like the French, you have in Normandy, if you weren't, you have an Amrelic cemetery, the German cemetery is right across the street, one across the other. I was in Stalingrad this summer, you may have heard, today in Volgograd, there you have everything preserved from battle, both Soviet and German, your entire Volgograd is bilingual, Russian and German. One and the other come there and they make a tourist story out of it. Can you believe that today in Volvograd, Soviet and German veterans are hanging out together, sitting at the table and having coffee? And with us, you can't think of one, you can't see this, someone on the other side, and at least to make peace, to say a lot more of this with another world war. I call on HS if it already wants to deal with this topic to separate research funds for historians and to leave them alone, to investigate Croatia's history objectively and independently, whatever it is, without political interference. When politics cease to interfere in history, then perhaps we'll finally know something about it. Let's archive history, turn it into something useful, something that connects us, not something that separates us. I sincerely hope this was the last time I witnessed the politicization of the past in HS, and I'm going to convince you, say hello. Lives the Wall as a superdepartmental party, a synergy party, a party facing primarily the future, a party wishing to build its identity on the identity of a better life for all Croatian citizens regardless of where the foreigners are, will not react to such discussions, and that is our message and that in future you know why you will not hear a letter from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109128	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Does this mean that you're giving up the individual debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109129	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109130	That you're giving up an individual debate? No, I don't. Okay. I'm setting a break from 20 minutes to 8:15 a.m. We're moving on. It's 8:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:17 A.M.]] On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109132	Dear Vice President. At first, I wanted to answer to the representative Bunjac, who, in this debate of hiss, fully exposed himself, as one of the most ordinary right-wing and conservative hiding under the yellow doll and yellow mandura, and who tried to reciprocate today's important debate in the Croatian Parliament. But that actually confirms everything we thought of you. The reason why you did not support the same-sex community today, their right to foster children, the reason why you are not for the Istanbul Convention, because you do not believe in this deeply, the reason why you do not believe in the roots, the anti-fascist roots of Croatia, is probably why you vote across the country for the removal of markets, which are named after heroes of anti-fascist struggle. That's your direction, that's your path, you're your right. Not to mention that you are in various countries with representatives of any party, and unfortunately these large Serb parties that your representatives have recently met in Belgrade. So, you support all extreme movements and you've completely decommissioned yourself. But what I'm going to tell you too, and what I owe you is that so far, from the Living Wall, we haven't seen a single serious proposal. And unlike the SDP that he proposed and a plan to grow wages, and a plan to grow pensions, and a plan to reduce the waiting list in health, and a plan to deblock citizens and stop debt slavery, you didn't propose anything at all. The only love you share with citizens is the love of expensive watches shared by wartime profiteers Ivo Sanader. And that's the truth about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109133	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109134	Dear colleagues, these are not historical issues, these are current issues and are related to some, catharsis in Croatian society, because the historical branch of science, not the words. Here, other countries have institutes for reconciliation and truth, other countries, have institutes for national memory, but there is no Croatia. Why has the Institute for War and Post-war Victims been abolished, why has it been abolished? Not to be fully exposed to the crimes of communism. This means that we have here false Christian Democrats, false social Democrats and fake peasants. And as far as the Rapal Treaty is concerned, you don't need history, look at the Big Mist, episode number 5, and they'll see that everything from Istria, from Istria to Zadar and the island, that he handed over Trumbić and Pasic to the old South, that territory, not the one you're accusing. It's a simple thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109135	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109136	Thank you very much. Mr Bernardic, by your angry move, you have confessed to defeat. And I have nothing else to say to you, and feel free to ask, here are representatives of the Serb minority, when representatives of the Roma minority come, when representatives of the Jewish minority and all other minorities in Croatia, Branimir Bunjac right-handed. Now, you can ask them now, and by the way, I'd recommend you go to the first library, it's not that hard, there's one near the Parliament, and you can borrow at least one book that I wrote about history so you can understand what a huge delusion you're in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109137	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109138	I can't judge from your spoken word, what I can conclude is from your views, and you, Mr. Bunjac, and your party, were against the Istanbul Convention, were to remove the markets of anti-fascist struggle, were against fostering children by same-sex couples, today you are against this interpretation and in fact my question is against the European Union, so why are you not a right-wing man? And in your economic solutions, I'd rather not speak. When people saw what economic solutions you are offering, since you are a party that you did not participate in, they decided to leave Croatia further, because your economic solution for Croatia is we will print the money and we will not pay the debts. When people saw the seriousness of this proposal, they all fled the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109139	Thank you for your response. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109140	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament has always voiced the position of the Croatian people and all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, always representing the principle of pluralism of democracy, equality, respect for human civil rights and freedom. And in that light, I want us to have this debate. In that light of this debate, I want to expose my club's position. The position of our club is clear, for home ready for us there is no other meaning but just one. For home, the official Ustasha greeting was enough to disqualify him forever. This greeting is a symbol marked by the Ustasha regime of the HND, a parastate which was created exclusively by the will of fascist Italy and the Nazi Third Reich, and precisely because of what it symbolizes, and precisely because of the way it is used, and used exclusively as an invitation to hate, the use of that call should be prohibited, condemned and fenced. The attitude of all of us should be clear and unmistakable. And I'm really asking all of us, do we have to explain what the Ustasha regime meant, which meant the Ustasha greeting "To Home Ready", that it was the state that killed, expelled and discriminated against a third of its population. That it was a state that opened concentration camps, that it was a state whose ideology was based on blood, on the ideology of blood and soil, which resulted in the adoption of racial laws. The passing of racial laws meant the physical extinction of all those who did not meet the criteria of race. Race laws legalized state terror towards lower races, according to Serbs, according to Jews, towards the Roma. It hasn't been a month since the NDH declaration that the first camp opened, it hasn't been a month since racial laws were passed, it hasn't been a month since the first massacre was started. It is the duty of all of us MPs to oppose hatred and nationalism, intolerance, exclusion, to oppose discrimination. President of France Macron, marking 100 years since the end of World War I, said a wonderful sentence. Nationalism is a betrayal of patriotism. As for the very greeting whether it was used in '91, whether it was used in '92, whether it was used in '93, whether it was used by the members of the HOS who later joined the Croatian military, yes. Whether they were Ustasha, whether they were aware of their markings, I will not claim it, would not dare to claim it, were those who were aware of it at all, were those who wanted to go to war, but what is clear and unequivocally that the political summit of HSP, who was the formal founder, was knowingly pushing the symbolism of NDH. There were statements at the top of the party at the time that every Croatian soldier, not Hos, but every Croatian soldier hailed "For Home Ready", which is a greeting on 10 April '41. just the Croatian soldiers brought in after the establishment of NDH. So the founders themselves called on Ustasha and NDH. Tudjman was just trying to contain it and marginalize it, which is why the Ministry of Administration was in '95. made a solution that refused to register the association with that greeting. The administrative court is the '95 solution. Then confirmed why in 2001 the first left government registered this remains a mystery. So we have a situation that by yesterday 29 HOS associations were registered, and only a few of them have greetings "For Home Ready" in their coat of arms. I would remind you on the legal side, if we had a street in a municipality named on April 10th of '97, the Constitutional Court decided on that case on behalf of the street on April 10th to annul that decision in the name of that street. Why did he cancel? He made it very clear under the protection of the Constitution and the convention cannot be marked on the date of 10 April '41. as the day of establishment of NDH in any way including the giving of street names or squares after that date. The well-known historical truth is that NDH was a Nazi and fascist form and, as such, represented an absolute negation of the legitimate aspirations of the Croatian people for their own state and the severe historical abuse of these aspirations. Therefore, according to the original basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, NDH is not the NDH sequence on any basis. I think it is very clear that if we go back to 2006 when the Jasenovci Memorial Museum was opened, when it was restored, when the new establishment was set up, then the President of the Croatian Parliament pointed out that the Jasenovo concentration camp was a terrible testimony of Ustasha crimes, an overly indelible slag that characterised the Ustasha regime as a regime of evil and inhumanity. Because Jews were only killed because they were Jews, Serbs only because they were Serbs, Roma only because in Roma, and many Croats were killed because they were anti-fascists, because they opposed the Quincesian vassalism and the Ustasha regime. It is not only a problem for the Republic of Croatia that this problem exists across Europe, and therefore recently the European Parliament's resolution on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe was recently adopted on 25.10. The resolution itself says they are calling for among other Member States and national sports alliances, and in particular football clubs to counter the evil of racism, fascism and xenophobia in stadiums, to encourage Member States to provide training for public broadcasters and media in order to strengthen awareness of the challenges of discrimination. The resolution highlights the awareness of history as one of the preconditions for preventing similar crimes in the future, calls on Member States to condemn and suppress all forms of denial of holocausts including trivivalisation and the minimalisation of the crimes of the Nazis and their associates. What do we have today? Today we have a new Jasenovac coming 9 classes a year so many of them in 2017, that we do not have a single state memorial, that throughout Croatia in public institutions, city libraries present books that deny the holocaust. Today I was talking about it, today I read a piece of Croatian writer, journalist, lawyer, politician, prominent member of the HSS that the Ustashas took to the Jasenovac camp, which in his book Konklogor at Sava, described what he had experienced there. So I read a fraction describing how it was executed in a few days by 1200 children, 1200 children. With his quote that ended the chapter on it, I'm going to finish the current presentation. It choked my chest, but I couldn't cry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109141	I thank my esteemed colleague Milosevic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109142	Dear fellow Milosevic, I will have to address you, since what you said was true, wonderful and wonderful, but I must ask you, since you are a representative here at HS, you represent a Serb national minority, whether you will not mind ruling the HDZ with which you are in the coalition, rejecting this interpretation today. Don't you mind, don't you mind that Plenkovic's Commission for Facing the Past has defacted the use of "For Home Ready", don't you mind? Don't you mind if we still have three columns in Jasenovac? Or does it bother you to vote together at each vote in the same car with Branimir Glavas, for example? With a colleague up there, Steve Culley? That's what this is about, don't paint us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109143	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. I'd like to ask you not to disprove any MPs during your presentation. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109144	Art. 238, any 357, anything I say, I didn't miss. But my colleague Bernardic insulted me, putting me with a young colleague on the same side, being together in the coalition, maybe we don't think the same thing, he said, you insulted me, hard and deep, pointing your finger at me, and I expect someone to point the finger at me to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109145	Thank you, colleague Culey. I ask you nicely not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future because the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed as you have said, and I have asked you before not to be disdained by the MPs. We have one replica, dear colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109146	My dear colleague Bernardic, some of the things you've listed, they bother me, they bother me, I can't say they don't bother me, but I didn't betray anyone here by bothering me. What bothers me even more is exactly what I said in the debate. Why did the left Government register "For Home Ready" in 2001 if it was rejected in 95. It bothers me a lot more when the left government issues left ideas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109147	Thank you, my colleague Bernardic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109148	You were so bothered by the left government that you decided to be on the right, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109149	I thank you for your response to my respected colleague Bernardic. We continue on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109150	My colleagues and colleagues, we believe that there must be an expression of respect for all victims innocently killed in World War II and later in the totalitarian regime, no matter which side they fought on. Whether at that point they're illusions or not, but we have to bow down to all the victims and give away our piety. We need to bury those axes for the future of the Republic of Croatia, give science, education, institutions that deal with history to deal with it. MOST was opening archives from those times after World War II totalitarian regimes, unfortunately HDZ and most closed it. There is no one else, politics can change history, only institutions. And about all the problems in history, science has to tell its historians. However, in order to turn to the future, such as in the community of young people in the 90s, my comrades, stood in the same trench, wondering whether they were partisan sons, whether they were Ustasha sons, whether they were Serb nationalities, whether they were Bosniaks, together we stood in a trench fighting for a free, prosperous Republic. In the 95th year, we handed it over, so when we freed the Republic of Croatia, politicians took power in their hands and took the future to our children for debates like this, for debates about Ustashas and Partisans. It's time for historians and scientists to talk about it, it's time for all the archives to open up and show our history that we don't have to be ashamed of, but what was bad, we should give up. We are here in this House divided by parties, different worlds, different views of economic, sociological, we see differently. But because of the future of our children we must close this book, we must not see in everything the past tips, colleague Bernardic. As you speak of the Jasenovac, so someone will speak, I will speak of Bleiburg Moremo counting the victims and the dead, the blood of the dead. However, the Homeland War is the foundation of a modern Croatian state. Everything else is a division of the Croatian people. If we had acted this way in the 1990s, there would never be an independent Republic of Croatia. Never. We must find common language for the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. These topics, the Ustashas and the Partisans are chasing our young children into third countries. Why is it appropriate, colleague Bernardic, to you and HDZ, to this subject? We should have talked about much more serious issues here in parliament. For example. on the Marrakech Agreement. However, this theme of yours has come as a balm to the wound. They put it on today. They're on the board, my colleague Kovac has forced his conclusion, which, I don't give him approval, I personally as a parliamentary representative, because I don't know what's in this agreement. I know, but I want to discuss it in Parliament. And let me make my point. People can't decide. So we've got a lot of problems. We have problems with the occupation of teleoperators, we have bank occupations, we have economic problems, we have two thirds of Croatia empty, Croatia is the worst percentage of our children who can't go to kindergartens, and research says that children who don't go to kindergarten from three to six years old don't have the opportunity to have a 17-times less chance of having a higher education. These topics, Mr Bernardic, open up the HDZ gentlemen. This ran into the HDZ of your... where they are now laundering the numerous mistakes they have made in recent months, in recent years, from arrest, location, transfer and all that has not happened positively in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need a future. We must turn to the future. We can't turn dead bones. We can't talk about the Homeland War that way, comparing the Ustasha movement with the Hos. We can't do that, I don't have a right to do that, on behalf of those who defended Vukovar, the Hoss. A stand-alone company of 20 out of 50 eight of them, 28 25 of them died, and 3 of them disappeared. They were the hardest in the battlefield at the Fair. Until the last moment, they were defending with their own blood. Among them, there was no question of who was a Serb, who was a Croat, as was I, in which I was a unit, I did not ask my neighbor with whom I live today whether you were a Serb or a Croat. All these people live hard. Our country has become an exploitation field of various dynasties, both domestic and foreign. The Croatian defender was given to us, gentlemen, I wasn't in politics at the time, they gave us tools to manage this country. As we manage, let's ask ourselves. Whether the most important topic in the Republic of Croatia and the Partisans are getting up at the moment. I really, colleague Bernardic, know that there are people who are extreme, but I will never say for people who have been in the Croatian defence forces that are extreme. These are the people who have defended the Republic of Croatia with their lives. And no one can compare them with the 1941 Ustashas because they weren't born then. I believe that when we speak from Hos, when we talk about the Croatian Army, about the victorious army, we must not compare them for our young people, because the Homeland War is on the foundation of the state. HOS is part of the victory army, the Croatian Army and we need to tell the truth about the Homeland War. Not to justify any crime, but to the truth about the Homeland War, where the MUP, HV and HOS together defended the Republic of Croatia against the fascist great-serb aggression. Hos' forces were anti-fascist. They were neither in Smederev nor in Belgrade, but were defending Vukovar, defending Dubrovnik, defending my Sinj, so as not to reach your Zagreb. That you can sit in this chair now, that I can be their representative and all of us here. If we look at it that way and find all the ideological worldly differences, the common goal of the survival of the people in these areas, then we will succeed. If not, then maybe every day we'll just watch the polls if we're 2% up, or 2% down, and we'll open the topic. Believe me, the promoters, you who have proposed, and most surprising to me, that one among the proposings, Mr. Grbin, who has so far been most beautiful, in my opinion, and most attractively performed a song by the Battle of Chavoglava. One of the nicer performances. It wasn't the whole video, so I'd love to, if it's possible to keep going. And many people have come to you, who have signed these 30 on the other side. We can caricate now, but we can't muddle ourselves. Let's try the community, with all the differences to fight for the prosperous Republic of Croatia. I partially quoted at first the person who is my Sinyanin. Who sat in this bench in 1995, the Assembly. It's Mika Tripalo. The man who was in the Partisan movement. And when it was debated about Bleiburg, he said the word I said at first. He said that all those who died in Bleiburg were the victims and that we should bow down to them. And many, here among you, are calling on Mika Tripal, who was later a Croatian springer. I think that the same words Vlado Gotovina referred to, we remember his speech in front of the general assembly. He didn't take the JNA Army seriously back then. And I would say once again, if we don't stop together and find common things that will solve that stakeholders don't break all over Croatia that don't break it over their knees and they are and they can re-list all these things that the interesting lobbys of the dynasty have done because the government doesn't rule the Republic of Croatia, but teleoperative lobbys, I don't know all the economic lobbys, the banking lobbys, they all rule the Republic of Croatia. If we're just here to talk about the circus and the Ustashas and the Partisans and under the table, we pass the Marrakech Agreement and all our neighbouring states, most of them, i.e. They're almost against the signature, they won't support it. They won't support the agreement and we as parliamentary representatives don't discuss it, so talk enough about how unserious we are, but the board hastened through, the Minister of the Interior will go there to support it. And the people didn't have the authority to sit here alone and the government is going through what they want, whether you agree or not, we should have insisted on our fellow Bernardic as an opposition and all together make the majority discuss it no matter how you vote or I vote. They put a lot of stuff under the table while we're trying to talk about World War II. In addition, there is a Declaration of the European Council, for all totalitarian victims there is a day, on the day of the 39th year when an agreement was signed between Hitler's Germany and Russia on the non-attacking of Stalin. When we need to remember all the victims. And we, and I'm about to mention that all the victims are mentioned, but I can't possibly let you compare themselves, the Croatian defenders with any totalitarian regime, because in the trench of the same in the Croatian Army's Hos troops, the MUP were the sons of partisans, the sons of Ustasha, 9,000 people of Serbian nationality, and I never, ever, have the right to do so because of the dead, I have no right because of Jean-Michel Nicole, who is French, I have no right because of those people who left French life in Vukovar, I have no right to do so. I've stayed alive, but I have no right to live because of those dead. Let us find common things that bring us together and try to stop stakeholders in the Republic of Croatia together and leave this story to education and education, science, academic science, open archives, open up history for some people who deal with it professionally let them study it. And this way, my colleague Bernardic, on... You ran into HDZ because they're running through things and they're getting, which are much more important to the Republic of Croatia and they're giving away their democratic muscles and your former coalition partners are their liberals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109151	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The future, yes, that's the key word, but the future doesn't have an honest relationship with history, the equal treatment of crime is necessary, I agree and unquestioned. On the other hand, if we look at the resuscitation and strengthening of the constitution in Croatia, neonacism in Germany, fascism in Italy, and it's not fiction, it's happening, here, Mr. Glasovic was recently at the NPD convention, he couldn't answer one very simple question about whether you were neo-Nazi or not. And the answer to that question is either not or anything else. Because if anything else, the answer is yes. We have to stand up to it in all kinds of ways and it doesn't, doesn't mean that anyone is minorizing the crimes of socialism of fellow Bulj, but we're not looking at resuscitation, for example. Communist parties, we don't listen in Croatian society to calls for nationalisation of private property, we don't watch the repression of religious communities, but that's why we listen to Ustasha greetings, we listen to the relativisation of the crimes of the Ustasha movement. So one Jasenovac was actually, uh, let's not exactly some scout camp but it was a work camp, it wasn't the death site of tens of thousands of innocent civilians. We listen to the relativation of all the crimes of Ustasha movement and the pretending that Hos's "For Home Ready" has nothing to do with Ustasha "For Home Ready" but in fact this link is direct because the Skajo commander called the Ustasha sons during the war. You've got the speech footage. That relationship was never circumstantial, it was always direct at all times. At the time, Ante Pavelic and Max Luburic were hanging in many party rooms, in many offices. The fact that radicalism was at war in no way diminishes its inevitability for Croatia and that is what we must say here. The war was imposed on Croatia, but the pure wars of colleagues and there is no war, all wars are bloody and all wars are dirty, there are no clean wars. If we want the future to end then we must end all wars, and the Second World War must end and the Homeland War must end and Croatia has won in both wars. And that's why I'm saying, let's go after everything, criminally, of course. Let's go chasing without exception then everyone who uses for "To Home Ready" and it can't depend on the context because this link, I repeat, is not dependent on the context, it is directly motivated. Let's go after those who celebrate the crimes of socialism, I mean, today we're talking about another topic, although I understand that there are political reasons on this side of the assembly that need to put one another in the same sentence, I have no problem with that. Let's go chase everyone. If the Austrians can, so can we, why would we be worse? But that's what we have to want. We need to know that. If anyone else knows, why shouldn't Croatia know. After all, aren't we actually experts at it? Well, when we do that, then we'll have a future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109153	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109154	My colleague Glavasevic, if you've listened well to me, I've said on several occasions that we have an obligation and we need to give a pate to all the II victims. the world war, all the totalitarian regimes and when I was talking about the Homeland War, I just said briefly, that I would never be able to compare, no matter what we find exceptions, where I have to look for... Croatian defenders, victorious Croatian armies, who did not commit crimes because if it was a crime, I do not justify it but which was a defensive Homeland war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I consider all units, MUP, Croatian military and HOS anti-fascist units because large- Serbian fascism has put the Croatian state at risk at the helm with one piece, here's Vukic here's the same... and welcome him here as a hero and we caught the Croatian victorious armies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that there are elements that could build a better Croatia on a common ground. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109155	I thank my colleague Bulj, the answer, my colleague Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109156	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, we were probably the loudest critics of Alexander Vukic and his visit and the person who eventually invited him to Croatia but neither you nor I to the fact that Alexander Vukic is a Chetnik and it is not our duty to influence at the end but what is our duty? Let's clean up in our own backyard. So my role is and what I want for our country is to be clean in the eyes of Europe first of all, not, first of all, of its own citizens and then of Europe and then of the rest of the world. I think that Croatia can only be when it is clean, when we have a clear conscience and when we get rid of everything that someone else may have been justified to us was unfairly burdened, when we cleared up these problems, when we argued, and then we can ask calm consciences to demand that the justice that someone else owes us be delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109157	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109158	Dear fellow Bojana, so we look at the economy a little differently, you look at you now with liberal cancer, I look more from the Social Democratic, but what we agree on, we agree on world-wide issues and we agree on the future. And in order to be able to deal with the future, we need to know the facts of our past, our history and what counterpart Bulj said, that Croatian defenders were de facto Croatian anti-fascists who fought the fascist Milosevic regime in the 1990s in the Homeland War is correct. And that is why the defensive character of the Homeland War must never be mixed, a righteous character with what is trying to do under the greeting "For Home Ready" and that sad episode of Croatian history in which unfortunately, people have been killed. Although you know, the interpretations sent to the procedure a year and a half ago, unfortunately, she didn't make it to the agenda until today. You witnessed the Homeland War, Mr. Bulj, your testimony today is valuable, unfortunately, my father, without pathetics, and Father Bojan Glavasevic, did not, could not, out of fact circumstances, because they had lost their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109159	I thank my colleague Bernardic. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109160	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Glavasevic, I fully agree with you that every crime should be investigated and every perpetrator should be punished no matter what time the crime was committed. But you have said one very important thing, the relativization of the Ustasha regime and its character, whenever it is mentioned, is always added to the decimal and added "all" as well as all totalitarian regimes. The problem with the Ustasha regime is not that he was totalitarian, the problem with the regime was that he was criminal, which rested on racial laws, which was organised by the killings of both non-insistant Croats and national minorities and vulnerable groups, which permanently damaged the Croatian people and the Croatian state, on the internal political plan, among Croatian citizens as well as on the international plan. It's a problem with the Ustasha regime and there's no need to even it with some other totalitarian regime and say they're all the same. They're not the same because they didn't rest on the same basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109161	I thank my colleague Klisovic. Answer, comrade Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109162	The key thing in the whole story is that I believe in Croatia with clean hands because every war is bloody and whoever says it's any different probably never seen war. Talk to any defender. Everyone will tell you who really saw the front that at some point it is neither a question nor an ideal is neither a question nor a policy, it is a question of some humanity naked to its core and actually, I mean, something that is incomparable to the reality in which we all live at the moment but I believe in Croatia clean hands and believe that our duty is to go through everything to be clean in our own eyes and then we can be clean in the eyes of the rest of the world. I mean, not because we have something to prove to ourselves, but because it's our duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109163	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for his reply. The next replica is an esteemed colleague of Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Glavasevic, this magic word of yours "future" is something that everyone should agree on and you say you would like to discuss here the future we need to clear up the past. We need to ask ourselves who? Are we politicians or scientists? Our foundation is the Homeland War and if Dr Tudjman hadn't united the Croats of all options, there would have never been a Croatia. And let's have a young generation, even though I'm a little older than you, let's concentrate on the Homeland War. That's our foundation. Well, it left that history to scientists, let them deal with it. And we for a good future, let's unite. And let us find ways not to divide the people on any basis, for if Milosevic had defeated, your father's comrades and him, they would have been fascists. That's why we don't have to look for reasons to share the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109165	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. My colleague Glavasevic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109166	Thank you. Let's let my father and his comrades, those who were killed to rest in peace, and we'll talk about what's on our agenda here today. You can talk about not wanting to talk about the past, but the past goes after us and all of us and, at best, taps us on the shoulder, and much more often than that, unfortunately, sometimes slaps us and slaps us. So whether we want it or not, the past is there. We can ignore it, but then the past will only become even stronger in our present. To answer your question, yes, it takes science to determine the historical truth, but it takes political will to make this scientific truth become a social reality. One doesn't go without the other. You can't transfer responsibility to historians. If they told you, here's how it should be, and then the eyes, it's okay. No, I don't. It is our duty, the one we were chosen to create a social reality, to find and ensure political will together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109167	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109168	Thank you very much. Here, dear colleague Glavasevic, I see that it is not possible to get out of these trenches, ideological and secular, when the SDP runs out of fuel, then these topics are just opening up. We know the role of the regime, both fascist and Nazi, so, and totalitarian, communist, and we know the relationship that lasted, and so... But if we don't pick a bear by the '90s and if it's the 90s that connects us, why are we going back? This people are more full of hats divided, fiction, internal enemies, inventing Ustasha snakes, inventing Ustashas. Who is it today in Croatia Ustasha? Remembering again, how many wars Croatia has won, you remind me, here, of former President Mesic, to speak of symbols and the past, does not lead to anything, I say, it is only an excuse to seek space for the action of a new division in the Croatian people that will not bring us anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109169	I thank my colleague Škorić. Answer, comrade Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109170	Thank you. Comrade Škorić, I mean, you just have no idea what you're talking about here, nor have you been able to understand what I said, so I don't need to answer what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109171	Thank you for answering after all. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers with the secretary of state and colleagues and colleagues. No matter what my speakers said from both the bench and this speaker, this debate today is and makes sense only if the debate is present. And this interpretation only makes sense if it focuses and focuses on the present. All discussions on II. St. The war, about the Homeland War, who is more just, who is more right or less right, are actually missed in this assembly and de facto are not about it, but are about a phenomenon that we see in our society, and unfortunately in almost all other societies, which is that it is trying in different ways to rehabilitate or reintroduce into a policy of ideology that was represented 70 years ago by fascists, Nazis and Stalinists and their derivations, such as the Ustashas in Croatia. But at this point they're not a problem, not because historians can solve them, historians will never solve them, social and humanistic sciences are, de facto, a permanent conversation, so to speak. So, research into facts and permanent conversation, but each scientist carries with him his own beliefs. And you'll never get a definitive answer if you have some of your beliefs and a worldview, whatever historians tell you from the perspective of facts, but of course, and your worldview, they won't be able to convince or reassure you. But what makes this significant is that, in Croatian as well as in any other society, there is always latent extremism. However, at the time when from public places from the Parliament, from the top of the government, people who are visible and performing in public, it is beginning to suggest that propagating the views of fascist or Nazi or neo-fascist or non-Oscist, that it is okay, that it is acceptable, so that it is debated whether something is a historical greeting or not a historical greeting. That's groundless. What's the point of it is to give the public, the people a sign that the time may actually come that it's acceptable and that it can be done and that's why this is dangerous. Not because we're clearing the Ustashas and Partisans here in Parliament, it's not about Ustashas and Partisans at all. It's about us here today. And these people, mentioned by some, who flee to other countries, not because of work, but because they can't stand that climate, they're not running because of Ustasha and Partisans, but because of the climate we're creating here today. It is an issue that is absolutely relevant to be discussed in parliament and should not be hidden behind different banalitys, where the past is left behind by past, common phrases. Let's face what's bothering us today. And why is that a problem and why people who are different nationalities, different, so not majorityal, let's say nationalities, not majority sexual orientations, not majorityal, what do I know, majority political or ruling political attitudes and beliefs, why do they feel bad? Why are they afraid? Why do they have difficulty in everyday life? Why are they attacking them? Why do they burn pictures of journalists they don't get along with on the street? What message is that? It's a topic that we're interested in, and it's a topic that we need to discuss and that's why we consider this interpretation, therefore, in this context, today and sending a message to today's society, not the Homeland War, not the II. Holy shit. The war, not the I. St. The war, rather than today, makes sense here in Croatia. Because of discrimination, because of greatness, because of racism, because of the policy of fear that arises in our time, not at some other time, but it appears in our time, and people are using it, for any policy, any promotion, any purpose they believe will benefit them today, and that is why we need to discuss it and therefore we need to respond to these phenomena that this interpretation reacts to, because of the message it sends to today's politics and today's behaviour. I am an act of rejection or inadequacy that this one little thing de facto is changing, and a particular explanation of the government not to accept these conclusions that are mentioned here shows de facto constantly easing or slightly flirting with the relativization and rehabilitation of fascism, Nazism and Ustasity. And today, as it is today. Hiding behind the phrase "totalitarian regimes" is completely deplaced. It's not totalitarian regimes. Today, among other things, occasionally in Croatia, we host the leaders of countries that the regimes could easily be said to be totalitarian and certainly have some elements and characteristics of totalitarian regimes. Many regimes are totalitarian. This is about fascism, Nazism and Stalinism, and their iterations, so the uprising is one of their iterations. So three murderous systems of value, a way of ruling and terror over societies around which there is, more or less, let's say, a consensus or a global consensus in a civilized world. Hiding from totalitarian regimes, there are many regimes, almost all have done crimes and injustices and democracy today. Both crimes and injustices and bad political moves. This is about ideologies that absolutely have a consensus that they're criminal. And that's their main feature, and it doesn't have to be relativated or drowned in some general phrase of totalitarian regimes, because that's a lot of things that we're talking about, and a lot of them aren't even close to these criminal regimes that we're talking about here. The government's argument "we will not ban it because there are no others before us", I don't know what to say, it's an infantile argument, I mean, it's a ridiculous argument. True, I can criticise, curse, but so on, but it can't be a criterion why you want something or you won't do it. Either you think it should or should not be done, it's simply no argument, and it would be better if you didn't write, and I'm sorry that these two decent men here are sent from the government that actually, I don't know how much they have to do with it at all, but you don't need to write that kind of stuff because it really sounds childish. If you don't know how to do that, sign the Austrian law. Enlargement of the constitution costs €10 000. Anyone who loves you, go ahead. The Austrians have a nice introduction, and you can pay 10,000 euros if you want. They're very simple to solve this problem. Why? Well, not because of II again. Holy shit. wars and interpretations and possible quarrels among historians, but because of today's message to political parties, individual politicians, today's policy, so because of what we're looking at today. Which is not even a little harmless, which is funded by some large, perhaps at first sight by an unexpected state in Europe with a very clear awareness of what they are doing, undermining certain states and their institutions. We have heard here today in the Parliament a rather severe attack on the institutions. So, not to me, I don't know, colleagues from HDZ or SDP, but to the Constitutional Court, to the attorney general, so institutions that form the basis of what some kind of security the state must give. That's where it's going. When you start relativating it, then eventually you come to this kind of destruction. Finally, I believe that this government, as said here in the introduction, has no special sympathy for fascism, extreme right, national socialism, etc. However, by flirting in this way, it seems to me that the government thinks it will satisfy the extreme right in its own ranks, that it will please the people who represent themselves, more or less as neo-Nazis or failures, and that in this way it will somehow smooth relations by flirting with these attitudes. Let me tell you-- it won't. These people hate you and they'll always hate you. But if you show certain strength, then at least they'll respect you. And if you're adhering to those attitudes, then they'll just despise you. No, you don't need to accept these conclusions from this interpretation, do something yourself. Say we will not accept it from the opposition, we will do something ourselves because defence of interest, and defense of the extreme right, from neofascism is absolutely defense of the interest and dignity of the Republic of Croatia and this defense of the interest and dignity of the Republic of Croatia with truth. And that as a government is already your duty, it's really your job and you need to stick to these tasks and you can do it. As I said, it is not necessary, nor is it the custom to accept the interpretations and conclusions proposed by the opposition, but do something for yourselves while your country is trusted to guard, so to speak, to defend the honor and dignity of that country, and brother, to defend yourself from the extreme right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109173	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. This isn't a history debate. This is a debate about the present and the future. The debate is about the present, among other things, and because of what it is, e.g. said Mr. Hasanbegovic at the pay phone. He didn't talk about the past either. He said the same thing about the future. He outlined a clear political programme to change the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to reject the decisions of ZAHVNOH from the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there are political forces and political parties that base their programme on this and will compete in democratic elections and try to get votes on this basis. It turns out that for the time being, only Austria has applied these instructions to the council formed by the government because it has estimated that, the context in which NDH features are used in Austria have nothing to do with the Homeland War, and then it prescribed penalties, and not small ones. Also, the fact is that the last line of defence or the first line of defence of use in some circumstances is the greeting "For Home Ready" fact that it was worn on the sleeve by members of the HoS, the party military of the HSP during the Homeland War, who were subsequently incorporated into the HV or the BiH Army units, where, and until the end of the war, they acted within the legal regular units of the HV. That's partly true. But we forget one fact about how Hos came into existence. Within the framework of the HSP, which is in its political programme, in its features and especially in its party rooms, she never hid her sympathies, at least those years, and even later we could see, and even in previous years, I think that Mr. Pero Čorić, who had the chief's picture in his living room, and thus commended him, therefore that party, for a long time, if not never, had been fenced in an adequate manner and symbolically from his then views. So we don't have to go any further, so it's not exactly what Mr. Bulj says, that Croatian defenders and NDH troops can't compare. They can compare and come to the conclusion that the very large majority of HV units had nothing to do with it and that there was one minority who called and today the NDH was the only real Croatian state at the time. So, it can be compared, if someone marks their unit date on April 10th and is not founded on April 10th but in the 11th, if he wears black uniforms, if he has a coat of arms on which he writes "For a home ready", if the unit is named after Rafael Boban, if the one who speaks on their behalf has a mustache, where he says to whom he reminds, and if he says that only briefly the Croatian state was resurrected on April 10th 1941 in the form of NDH, then there is no dilemma about what it is about. So we don't have to convince each other what this is about. What the Constitutional Court said in its decisions, before the 2016 and 2017 High Violent Court, is sufficient grounds for the conduct of all state bodies in cases of use of these symbols. What we have said in our interpretation is that it is unacceptable and we call upon the government to establish the basis of these judgments and to resolve it on the basis of what the verdicts have reached. It's about a suffix. And after that, it won't be any more unclear what to do. The Croatian Parliament is neither the state's attorney's office nor the court's, nor the police. HS is the most legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, adopting laws, which these institutions are obliged to implement. Independently, without political and other, this, party and all other criteria, and the only thing we need to do is strengthen, and that these laws are being implemented. As it will pass, in order to possibly pass, some kind of supervision of the statutes of the Hos Association, following these judgments at the Constitutional or Administrative Court, I think it would have passed so as to confirm the Ministry's decision to order the abolition, or change of those symbols, and as far as punishment is concerned, so some people are punished for using that greeting. Josip Simunic was punished, this Mr Miljak of HCHSP was punished, some others were punished, and therefore, that practice should continue and eventually be punished, if it turns out that they are not enough and that the purpose has not been achieved. And in the end, so this is the story of the future because, with our relationship to these symbols and these times, we also know what we see in the future. And I see it as democratic, a country where there will be no discrimination, on no basis on which, as the totalitarian regimes like to say, they discriminated or closed people, and as far as the distances from all totalitarian regimes, absolutely, therefore, democracy and individual freedom are what we will continue to advocate, and as far as trying to relativise history, reduction, etc., and what we are witnessing today, this is where we, who we have responsibility and who are chosen by citizens, should speak and propose. We've suggested conclusions... made a commitment to the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The parliamentary majority will not accept it, it is up to us to continue to fight for our views, and they are very clear in this regard. The honor of all defenders and those who wore that sign in war and pitet, but any relationship to the Quislin fascist formation called NDH cannot be any different relationship than the fence, denial and punishment of its promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109175	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109176	Your Honor. Comrade Bauk, you are calling for the land of the West, democracy, Austria. Do you remember a country called Germany, which sought out a criminal from a time of communism, which you couldn't cross your tongue and condemn, Communism? This same Perkovic, Mustac, who killed Croats and others, in this Europe and in the former Yugoslavia, denied Germany's request for extradition, you defended him with your hands and feet. You speak and identify the black shirt, the black uniform, the letter U, some cry with the defenders. I can also connect one group, a five-point star and an I. Proletarian brigade from... The Belgrade we trampled in Slavonia, Jankovci. If we're going to identify, we have a lot to identify.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. Answer, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109178	The person you're talking about, therefore, Mr. Perkovic was an assistant minister in several HDZ governments. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. In fact, in this series of wars before the war, one of the main associates was who described Croatia's ongoing preparation in this intelligence sense against what was coming from Belgrade. Therefore, our relationships with it have long been broken, and as far as the symbol is concerned, I must agree with you, so the five-pointer who attacked Vukovar in the good part has disgraced the five-pointer who defended antifascism or who freed Croatia and others, the rest of this area from fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109179	I thank my colleague Bauk for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109180	My colleague Bauk, I was at Starčević's home when HOS was founded, there I was as a journalist, so there is no doubt about the appearance of the uniform, by the markings, by the way of greeting, because they called it their main apartment, that it was the marriage of NDH and the Ustasha movement. According to the names of their troops, these are the black legion, Jure Vistas Francetic, Rafael Knight Boban. And there is no doubt that those who are today against this interpretation are against her because these symbols and those names are dear to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109181	Thank you, colleague Bauk's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109182	Today, a colleague of the coat of arms quoted President Tudjman as saying in '92. who then pleaded on these symbols. And it would only be good if HDZ followed President Tudjman's '92 policy in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109183	Thank you, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109184	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Bauk, I don't know what you're all afraid of together. Just before, Mrs Vesna Pusic said that people are afraid, what they are afraid of, what she sees, what you see in the first place, and whether you see an uprising in Croatia that you potential. Is it a coincidence that November 29th, today to discuss it, it is unnecessarily more to discuss, but here you have put this in our need "For Home Ready" of course historically it is not a Ustasha movement that the constitution does not support. Do you remember that there are Chetnik monuments in Croatia, so I ask you there from the left stop, if you ever stood up against it and asked for it to go away, no, it doesn't bother you. Not even the Chetniks in Serbia who rule, do not mind any of the Chetnica or Draža Mihajlovic monument in Kamberi today stands Chetnic, no one minds. But just tell them to mention Ustasha where no one in Croatia sees them. But only you, I suppose, dream of them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for these crimes you've repaired before. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Misic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109185	Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109186	So I don't even know how to answer your question about Chetniks, but that they and Ustasha are the same for me. Point Let's fight back. [[Don't complain.]] Point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109187	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Bauku. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, but my colleague Bauk shouldn't agree to this at all, I mean to argue and hold on to what you just heard or how my colleague Skoric tried to talk to me. And now to explain as Croatian defenders we don't bring in but, or was, but Croatian defenders, there is, therefore, no starting point for anything best about Croatian defenders, and we treat everything else as an exception. So that Croatian defenders are honorary, that Croatian defenders freed this country at its most difficult moment of occupation, so this is the starting point. And this whole thing can only be an exception to that, but to pretend that these exceptions don't exist, that's not, and there's a difference between what the government says and its commission for amazing creatures or what they call themselves and what some colleagues say. On the other side of the assembly there's a problem the same. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109189	My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109190	I think that's exactly what I said, so the big majority doesn't, and is that a small percentage or an exception or so on, that's the thing, maybe the problem just that I'm a mathematician and you're a little social orientation, and then we're expressing ourselves differently, but I agree with you, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109191	Thank you, colleague Bauk, for your reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109192	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so at the beginning of my debate, I would like to say, first of all, that NDH was a fascist creation and that today's Croatian state is not a follower of that NDH and that today's Croatian state was created in the defensive Homeland War, so there are no dilemmas. And those are the facts. And I think that everyone in this room in this room thinks so and we have absolutely no doubt about it. We also all know together, at least I understand from these discussions, except perhaps from fellow Independents for Croatia that we are all aware that "For Home Is Ready" from II. World War II, from NDH, was a fascist greeting, which even counterpart Hasanbegovic said to be before II. World War II and before '41. He hasn't used that greeting in years. So he doesn't have a problem with saying that that's the way it is. As far as the Homeland War is concerned, here I want to say here my father was a Croatian defender, a member of the MUP, a member of the Croatian military in the personal war, an officer of the Croatian Army, a lieutenant, a lieutenant, even though his last name is Djujic, it may be strange to some, but in '91. For years, he knew where his place was, and he never doubted for a moment which side was his, his duty, and what his country was and where it should be. And that's why I take the right to speak without complexes and without fear of these topics. As for Hos, I'm going to read again what my colleague Grbin said, because I don't think some on the other side of it have figured out who he was quoting. So I know that among these young people there were also Croatian fanatics, Croatian people who had Croatian ideals, but it's amazing that they belong to those who wear black shirts and fascist markings from the lost Second World War. What would happen to Germany if it continued on black shirts and brown shirt traditions? It was one of the main obstacles to Croatia's international recognition. It's something the world can't accept. Today's world is built on the principles of that anti-fascist coalition, a democratic order is sought for many reasons. That's what Franjo Tudjman, the first Croatian president, said. Croatia was also created at these anti-fascist values from that war in 1941 to 1945. And why did we refer this interpretation, which is why this is an important topic, and why is this topic as present as some colleagues have spoken before me? Neither Franjo Tudjman nor HDZ in the 1990s had a problem with knowing what was ready for home and where was the place of that greeting. The HDZ had no problem with it from 2004 to 2012, so Prime Minister Sanader said at the cabinet session that it was a Ustasha greeting that killed many people just because they were different. Orders to execute people are signed with greetings for home ready, and then what happened? Then in 2012, the HDZ leader comes Tomislav Karamarko, who lets a ghost out of a bottle who then starts telling this story about relativizing and bagatelizing greetings for a home ready, raising a hike against political insinuators, it wasn't that long ago, and then we remember the story that political rivals should be thrown into Kevin's caves and things like that, it was HDZ policy Tomislav Karamark. And this HDZ is to blame for what we have today, and it is guilty of what we have to talk about today, and Tomislav Karamarko, who was conducting the detudgement of Croatia as head of cabinet Stipe Mesic, is probably because of his remorse and these complexes he had, just opened up a space for this policy today. And why does that have to be talked about today? Because there is a lynch atmosphere being built in Croatia today, and it has been built since 2012 since Tomislav Karamarko was head of HDZ. Because many HDZ officials have been supporting this policy, many HDZ officials are still hosting TV shows of a convicted drug dealer who paid prostitutes with cocaine in 1991, taking pictures with Ustasha symbols, with a cowardly cross below Nazi signs, which today goes through Croatia and advocates that policy. And besides, he's a convicted drug dealer. I mean, that's all it takes. And today some HDZ officials are visiting this guy who in some normal country wouldn't have a chance at all to stay in public space. And because, yes, we put it before this government to solve this problem, because HDZ cooked it up, HDZ opened it up, and HDZ needs to solve it. I know that, that struggle within HDZ and that perhaps Prime Minister Plenkovic has no power to resolve it, but his responsibility as was his predecessors, the first and second president of HDZ, that they put it in frames and that they put that phenomenon where it belongs, as well as the responsibility of today's HDZ president to clean up the mess his predecessor made. In every sense. And that's why we opened this question. That's why we need to talk about this today, and this is the topic of the present, because in media space and in public space, there's an atmosphere of lynching, people who talk on the road are being threatened, society is being shared, messages from some fanatics are being sent, monuments from the People's Liberation War are collapsing, and the question of when someone will get their heads, because such an atmosphere among citizens is, and it's our responsibility in politics to warn you, and it's your government gentlemen's responsibility to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109193	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please. ... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Here you go, Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109195	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 235(3) speaks of how many times a representative may report for a replica. We opposed that item, but since it entered the Rules of Procedure for your insistence, then you should respect it. Mr. Culey must have answered three times, maybe one more for the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109196	Thank you, dear colleague, for your help. Unfortunately, you're wrong, my colleague Culeu, this is only the third replica. Since you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my warning. Here you go, colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109197	Your Honor. This was purposely done to confuse me, but I know. Dear young fellow I will teach you some history. If you had read the book I read, not the one you call for someone else to read, so here you would have read a book from one of the prominent Mr. Krmpotić, who wrote the book How UDBA made Croatia. The book also states that the respected Mr. Perkovic and similar to him, how they filtered some of their people, both in the Croatian military, and in the Croatian police, many from the former system, former JNA officers, who did not make themselves available to the Croatian army and the Croatian state in due time, so that they were doing the same wrestling and digging, and they were waiting for a turning point in a war that did not happen to them, but they were able to visit the war routes themselves, and many pensions, given that they had been introduced a war route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109198	Thank you, colleague Culey. I would ask you not to disrespect any fellow councilman in your presentation. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Peja Grbin's. Here you go. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have an answer from a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109199	Well, my colleague Culje, you're a lot in conspiracy theories, and I don't know who put former JNA officers in some kind of Croatian order. I just know that I say when I was a kid, it's for example for me. My father came in the uniform of the Croatian director with the Croatian coat of arms, and with the emblem of the police, the Croatian police on his shoulder and it was at the time while you were working as a civilian face in JNA as far as I know from the information, at the time my father was an employee of the MUP of the Republic of Croatia. So I don't know who was put in and who was doing what, but since you're talking about it, maybe you know best.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109200	Thank you. The same thing I told my colleague, Culeu, is about you and your colleague, Djujic. Here's a colleague of Culey's in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109201	Article 238 insults the carrying out of falsehood and lies on my reputation, honor, honesty,... And heroism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely 15.12.In the 1990s, I came from Đura Djakovic's plant to the Croatian police and was given '97 from Vukovar to Dubrovnik. I won't go any further, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109202	Comrade Culey, you have not called on the article of the Rules of Procedure. ... No injured Rules of Procedure, and I would really ask you not to abuse the Institute of Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We move on to the next line, dear colleague Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109203	Thank you very much. Well, here's dear colleague Djujic, I'm glad you referred to the role of the first Croatian President Dr. Franjo Tudjman and that your party, meanwhile, evaluated because we all remember in the 1990s when we fought for independence and independence after the first multilateral elections, leaving the Parliament by your party. Today, however, we fear that also by criminalising the "For the House ready" greeting that was used in the Homeland War, which is being attacked and when... The picture, the wife of Nicoleier, comes to the Croatian Parliament of the late Croatian defender, and when the Croatian coat of arms with the first white field on the bus is criminalised in the past days, which is 20 years old and we fear that tomorrow we are not looking for the coat of arms from the Church of St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marka, not to be questioned by the Croatian language, not to be questioned by the Croatian Kuna, to not come to questions and names used in NDH in military troops, so from rank, captain, major to unit title. And that's why we're afraid... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109204	I thank my colleague Škorić. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109205	Comrade Škorić, it's hard to answer what you said because I really don't know about a bunch of such things that have nothing to do with relationships, I really don't know what to say to you. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109206	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109207	Is there an NDH and Ustasha movement in Croatia? Well, there were, and there were. As in Germany, they're here in the Parliament, so it's what today's debate shows, they don't even keep it a secret. Are there neo-Nazis in Germany? Well, I'm sure he does. Are they in Austria? There is. But do you know what makes Croatia so different with this government with this kind of HDZ from civilized countries? For being punished by neo-Nazis there. If you need to beat 'em up. They have no right to the public. No, no one thinks he's relativizing anything about Nazism and fascism. And here, the Croatian government is making up some kind of commission that needs to be faced with all totalitarianisms instead of clearly speaking out loudly and clearly banning Ustasha symbols.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109208	Thank you. A fellow Stazic answer. Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109209	Thank you, Vice President. I wouldn't invite anyone to beat or beat. But in any case, yes, the role of the state is to solve these problems and here if I don't know we can see for ourselves what Austria is doing, tomorrow it will be Germany, the day after tomorrow it will be Slovenia, etc., the countries in the environment. And yes, you should be punished, you should say that these things are just wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109210	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Gordan Mars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109211	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you mentioned the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who very often HDZ colleagues remember conveniently in certain situations and then speak of him as best possible and today deny what he said and you said what he said and thought that "For the House he was ready" was a bad thing and a bad greeting. Not only that, he went one step further. He considered the greeting "For the House ready" to be a seed of evil and a hoax of Serbian secret services to discredit the Republic of Croatia. That's what the late President Tudjman thought of that greeting, and I would like HDZ to understand and accept that thought from the first Croatian president. It was a hoax of Serbian secret services. The greeting they wanted to give to Croatia so that the International Community would not recognise us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109212	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109213	So I can agree with you fellow Maras because President Tudjman was just saying that it was a major obstacle to Croatia's recognition. And now let's say that if we were looking at the same thing in the '90s, that means what visionary he was when he was able to create a state with a HDZ like this. And now that he's out of his mind, I'm really honoring him, even though I got involved in politics because in the late '90s, the press freedoms were choking, the 101st, Dinamo couldn't be Dinamo but was Croatia and it was some of my motives, but here's how I mature really see that man was a visionary when he was able to create a Croatian state with this kind of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109214	I thank my colleague, Djujic, it is nice to hear in the Croatian Parliament an agreement on the late President Tudjman that everyone recognises his size. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, I was surprised by what happened after the introduction that you said I would now speak without fear I don't know why you said this after the introduction, and now I'm going to speak without fear. [[Occupy Vice President: Excuse my colleague Sanader, here you are, my colleague Loncar, you will come in line]] Is there fear? That's what you said, you can check in the record. I don't know what fear it is up there in the House, but I was going to tell you, you went with the impellation here in Parliament, but I don't understand, two terms you had in this House, two terms you ran the Republic and that your government did nothing at that time, nothing bothered you, it even registered at that time some of the organizations that had this symbol that they were wearing and nothing was problematic. And now you remember when this government only did something concrete, so it did what some here are making fun of, and that's the Council of Facing, with the consequences of the governments of non-democratic systems and regimes, and I don't understand that after two mandates, you are now calling, where were you then?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109216	I thank my colleague Sanader. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109217	I didn't mention any fear in the sense that I was afraid, no, no, no, I didn't, because I have no fear, that I wouldn't speak at all, and I'm known to speak without fear and into the baby, and you obviously didn't listen to my debate, I said why now, because you cooked it up, you invited her around that SDPs should be thrown into the kevin pit, that we, I don't know, didn't want the Republic of the State, so here's this fellow Skoric and today he says that we left the Assembly in the 91st year, which isn't true, and when a man who couldn't find a flag, then a real man needs to imagine, or cross, everything is okay, here, so, a little, you didn't listen to me fellow Sanader, a little bit of listening to a phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109218	I thank my colleague, Djujic, for the historical truth, it is true that you said that you had left Parliament and only one SDP parliamentary representative voted for an independent Republic of Croatia and a secession from the former formation. If you need a name, it's Cici from Korčula. Cici Vlasic. We have another replica, here's my colleague Lonchar, and you've welcomed yours, please, you're a little impatient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109219	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Djujic, in HDZ I have never heard what is heard in the Assembly from your colleague, it is that the 45th ended without you doing the job to the end. Second, and yesterday here in the Assembly, your colleague says the same thing and asks a colleague present here where someone was born. One more thing, I've been in HDZ for a long time, but I've never experienced one member persecuting Croats or any of the other residents of this country, nor does fear shine across the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109220	I'd like to thank my colleague Lonchar. Here's my colleague, Djujic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109221	I think that, look, I can answer for what I'm saying, you haven't heard it from me, you'll never hear it, never hear it, so neither will anyone who's born where, that, we're fighting it and we're fighting it and that's SDP policy, we're fighting for both human rights and any form of persecution. And who sows fear, you are, right in your neighborhood, but not you personally, but in your neighborhood it was said that SDPs should be thrown into the kevin caves two or three years ago at the gatherings, in the vicinity of Zadar, so your colleagues from the party is, at the time of Tomislav Karamark, a little look at the media, you don't need to dig it deep, so, then it was a generally acceptable policy, and SDP doesn't have such a policy, we never said that someone should be thrown into the pit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109222	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109223	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Here in this already slow and late hour we are discussing things that are normally healthy in themselves, and when we look at the conclusions proposed by the SDP club, I don't think there should be any doubt about it, there should be no dispute about it at all, about which fellow Bulj, should not have shared emotions given his participation in the country war and should listen to the first Croatian president who said, here, perhaps my colleague Bulj doesn't know, but now I will tell him because he wasn't in the hall, he thought that "For Home Ready" was a bad greeting for the Republic, that this was a hoax of Serbian secret services, so that the RH was more difficult to recognise as an independent, independent country and as a new member of the international community. If this is what the one who acted and who had the best possible information should not deny and deny the emotion that happened then in the home war and the emotion of some young people who, without thinking about it, put certain signs on themselves, it has nothing to do with what we are talking about here today, it does not diminish their contribution, their heroism and everything they have done for our country. But the fact is that in the 1990s, we were working in an enemy environment, that Serbian secret services really wanted to trick the Republic of Croatia and hook it up with an independent state of the Republic of Croatia, which is the fact, it is here to be talked about because it is not to be ashamed, but to admit to the President of the Republic of Franji Tudjman what he managed to resist, and therefore I am surprised that today, almost 20 years later, some fall under these delusions that were then removed from President Tudjman. We will soon hear from some representatives in Croatia, today in Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament, that, in fact, "For the House, ready" was to stop the entrepreneurial greeting, let's say from fellow Mišic. So we will hear as from the president of the Republic of Croatia she says the old Croatian greeting and counterpart Misic says the old entrepreneurial greeting. So we don't have to discuss things like that here at all. It is clear in itself in every civilized, courteous European country that this is unacceptable. "To Dom Ready" is a symbol such as in Germany "Sieg Heil", meaning it is equivalent to one another and is punished for it. And I now call here brave advocates that it is not so when next year, for example, they go to Bleiburg for a memorial, let them shout 2, 3 times there "For the House ready" but let them prepare 4 thousand euros with them and if they are so brave they will certainly do so. I already see the candidates here are some of them, perhaps Culej, perhaps Škorić, let them shout there when they are so proud of that greeting and will pass as they did a month ago, because here, fellow Glasovic, I don't think it will be a problem for him, he has savings from before but must be prepared to sanction it in Austria, in Austria it is not allowed. In Austria, when you say that and there it works on the authorities of an even more right coalition than it is in the Republic of Croatia, so there is a colleague of Kurtz, prime minister, it is a pandan to Prime Minister Plenkovic, so HDZ Plenkovic = Kurtz and OVP. And the right and more right party, which is called FPO,... Freemen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the other hand, I would ask you gentlemen not to discuss it that way in the Croatian Parliament and to make it clear what is wrong is wrong and what is right is. On the other hand, I ask you to accept on this subject the fact that we have finished something and that something that has been a hoax of Serbian, Serbian secret services in the '90s in Croatia cannot be right in 2018. I ask you to accept these facts and accept these conclusions that the SDP Club has proposed in the Interpellation because they are notorous. So they say that the Croatian Parliament condemns the greeting "For the House ready" to invite the Government to remove a record that is compromising for our country and to see if some of them have been designated in their statutes, whether they used these symbols and greetings to sanction it as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109224	Thank you, colleague Maras. I would ask you not to call your fellow MPs and not to instruct them on certain activities in your future presentations. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Stevo Culej, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109225	Your Honor. Comrade Maras, connecting me with fascism, with Ustashas, with the greeting "For the House Ready" does not stand. But it says that the secret services of Yugoslavia have been bribing our constitution since '45. Until the '90s. That since the '90s, we have been submerged by the secret service of the Serbian and now in Croatia, someone's five-colonnay egg has been a cowardice and fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109226	Comrade Culey, you've replicated very nicely your colleagues, Maras, but you've used the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure and you've abused them. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder based on Article 239. Let's go to the replicas. Dear fellow Glasnovic, you've already had three lines, so you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109227	Well, I was gonna say something, but it doesn't really make any sense to say anything. What? [[Upadica Brkic: Kologa Glasnović, a colleague of Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109228	You've already had three replicas, you can't replicate any more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109229	Well, I can, why not, be insulted by a man here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109230	The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109231	Is it... Communism is a mental disorder, so there's no point in talking to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109232	Comrade Glasnović, please. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you've had a very emotional speech, you've almost cried, I've seen you stop your tears and you're barely in control of your ability to speak. Mostly what I'm trying to say. I want to say that if we don't solve these problems ourselves, Europe will solve them for us, and then we are constantly complaining about how someone from outside imposes on us how we behave here. And I think it's time, HDZ needs one Kurtz who's gonna have the strength to solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109234	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. I hope you don't remember the Austrian prime minister again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109235	I won't, I won't, I'll just remind fellow Djujic once more. Let these great patriots just bring 4000 euros next year or 10 to Beiburg and shout there as much as they want. But you will not hear "A" from Mr. Culey in Bleiburg, nor from Mr. Skoric, there will be quiet quiet as bugs. They're not going to say anything because it's preferable to be here than to be in the Austrian budget. So on that side, here, I can bet with you right now that neither Culej nor Škorić nor anyone who relativizes that greeting here in Bleiburg won't say a word. No, no way. That's my guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109236	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. On my request that you do not point your finger at any of the MPs, you have done it again, based on the Rules of Procedure, based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. Comrade Culey, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109237	Art. 238, I don't think it makes sense to tell Maras anything he doesn't understand, he was a kid, he was a kid.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109238	Comrade Culey, I've already given one warning and please stay away from demeaning any of my fellow MPs. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Petar Škorić, here you are, and you have had a replica, an apology, please welcome fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109239	... The Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] A fellow Maras, says entrepreneurship congratulations, that's not true, of course. You must know Nikola Šubić Zrinski in 1566 when Siget was occupied, he told his army in his last attack "For a Home", and the army was then replied ready to die [[Aggression: A colleague]] And they defeated the Turkish army [[Employer: A colleague of Mišić]] That's where that name comes from. [[Employer: A colleague of Mišić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109240	Thank you, but you've already had before, here's my colleague signaling, you've had three replicas, so I apologize for interrupting, but you don't have the right to a replica. We move forward, the next debate, no response when he had no right to reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Petar Škoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109241	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, we've met today in this topic because lately we've witnessed the most common straddling of certain functions in our country. We first came across this case from the former president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and now we see that, unfortunately, it repeats the example of the attorney general, so we should not be surprised tomorrow that this example is being followed by other authorities of HS, it seems to be becoming contagious lately. It is unacceptable for such serious duties to be exploited, abused, or possibly prepared for such action. So the attorney general is an eclectic example of such action. She is today calling for a whole series of institutions, from the Government, the Ministry, from defenders, internal affairs, administrations, all the way to the State's Attorney's Office, including the Haranga which is the bountiful cause of the Ustashaisation of Croatian society, therefore, the note ben with the financing of taxpayers. We are witnessing that Mrs Vidovic has long violated all the prescribed standards of her defence action because, with the completely unargumented pressures she has sent to the public lately and has increasingly disputed and the functioning of the constitutional state institutions in their constitutionally prescribed business and in their constitution prescribed powers of safeguarding Croatian borders. People in positions, in which they were appointed as SS Commissioner and thus Croatian peoples, cannot and should not extend their competence to act politically, and especially not politically. This way of action is completely contrary to that duty and thus leads the Croatian public astray about their real powers. I remind you, the Croatian Ombudsman is neither appointed by the UN nor by any other Civil Society Association, but by the Croatian people by means of his representatives in this House. Unfortunately, Lora Vidovic is increasingly acting as an employee outside Croatian global institutions at the expense of Croatian citizens and with the mandate of this Parliament, this government is paying. If these facts are not clear, and it is obvious that they are not, let their mandate be handed over to the body from which they were given, and let them run for office which is suitable for representing their own political views, and so also their imposition because, unfortunately, it has become constant lately and is increasingly working on it. It is not the job of the attorney general to evaluate or condemn the work of the police that protects our national border with superhuman efforts, nor is it the task of distracting them in the performance of their legal duties and to dissuade various theories that muddle Croatian institutions, Croatian police and the Croatian police themselves. Its job is to protect the principle of equality from the law, not to advocate the unequal application of the Law to migrants who arrive at our border in waves. About how he performs his duty, he says how he starts to interfere and what songs and lyrics the musicians will sing in the Croatian public. It speaks enough of her indifference, eventually of such a serious duty. Who is Mrs. Vidovic, who dares to send Mark Perkovic Thompson a public message to give up his war epoch with which Croatian heroes died under the pretext "For Home Ready". Who is it that can pronounce messages that deeply touch the very essence of the identity symbol of the Croatian people? Shall we agree with her? I won't. I don't have the hell for it, and even if I did, I wouldn't. I won't, what she's been trying to call politics for months, but what she's doing is incredibly foreigning and prostitution of national policies. The nationals because behind her legitimacy are the will of this House of Commons. Instead of more conscious, more independent and professionally doing its basic job to defend the endangered fundamental human rights of Croatian citizens, it deals with the search for Ustasha graphites, unmatched songs, speeches and historians. I remind you, every expression and every phrase can have more meaning, and that term must be observed in the context of the whole sentence. This is a logical method and should be applied to the greeting "For Home Ready" which many of our comrades wore on their shoulders, and a good part of them and by their markings, according to these greetings, spilled their blood, laid down their lives for their country, for their comrades and for their freedom. If Mrs. Vidovic has a problem with this greeting in the context of the Homeland War, and it is obvious that she has some duty to perform, she goes before our citizens, elects a mandate in these benches. One-sided and one-dimensional criminalization of this.../incomprehensible... is done to all of Croatia, our history and all the heroes who died under that password in the 1990s, it is unacceptable. My interpretation of that greeting we heard in the songs of '90s. The year is a statement of privilege for the submission and of those ultimate sacrifices for the freedom of their people. And in that context, it should be observed. For me, Battle Chavoglava, therefore including the greeting "For Home Ready" is a symbol of the Liberation War, regardless of who it is and when he used that cry in previous times. It's a message to all the interpreters of history who want to blacken and distort our history today, and unfortunately there are those in our benches too. As far as the Hos is concerned, I will only read to you what Martin Špegelj said about the members of the KOS in Hos in his book. Because of the persistent rejection of all defence plans, it was in fact inevitable that at a critical moment for the country's survival, self-initiative activities outside the plan and the law should be sought in this area for reasons for the creation of the HOS. So it was created in terms of support. Many times at the end of '91. and in the course of '92. I have met with the majority and the smaller formations of HOS on the battlefield itself and in its vicinity and cannot dispute their worth of combatance, especially of larger compositions and of what the commanders of real and reasonable surveillance have led. In Osijek, I asked one of the VOCs to place the prescribed state signs and they did so at the same time, and the guilt that the most critical moments were not used to help Vukovar is not on them, but on their leadership. When it was finally November 23, '91. a declaration of general mobilisation and provisions on the formation of an army and a single management and command system has no longer been published by any other parallel armies. The HoS gradually joined the HV, except for some independent activities in BiH. What they did on the line of defence of its integrity in co-operation with Bosniak defence formations and were themselves a mixed composition. I found smaller units in black uniforms in the spring of '92. in Bosnia's Posavina, but at the time these formations were already bearing official signs of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that it was they who remained on the battlefield when it was ordered that the HV and HVO troops were pulled north of Sava. So much for symbols, so much for greetings. I also remind you that we need to stop the stigmatisation of these symbols because here I am as a Croatian defender what my colleague Maras calls and calls for a greeting "For Home Ready". I didn't say hello in the '90s either. It's not '91. With that greeting, I don't need it today, but also that greeting wasn't hostile was a fighter in the pine, in the trench and together we fought for Croatian independence. But on the contrary, she was a five-point star on the other side that I fought against, and so if we talk about the stigmatization of these symbols, then we're going to be guided by what we, as contemporaries today, are going through. Therefore, it is not the same as the greeting "For Home Ready" which was created or used during the NDH, which occurred long before the NDH as an expression of resistance to the large Serb hegemony, was also used as a sign of resistance to the large Serbian agency, aggression. So such a greeting doesn't mean the same thing in the '91 Homeland War. The age as well as the five-point star doesn't have the same meaning, the one she had in II. the world war and the Homeland War, under which Vukovar and all of Croatia were destroyed. So I'm against any ban because bans open each other and so on. Therefore, stop bringing us back to the past, we, our comrades, the dead defenders and everyone who died for this country, are obliged to ensure unity, we are obliged to prevent divisions and we are obliged to stop the return to the past and into deep ideological trenches that have brought nothing good to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109242	I thank my esteemed colleague Škorić, my colleague Škorić, we are not here to discuss the report of the Advocate General but rather the second item of the agenda, so I ask you to stick to the topic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Skoric has repeatedly injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. You correctly warned him that he did not stick to the subject by my record in 4 minutes his debate mentioned the topic for the first time, however, Mr. Škoric also spoke extremely harshly, completely inappropriately in this assembly about the occupier. He can disagree with her, he can comment on her report, but he can't insult her in this way, and I think that's why You must give a warning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109244	Please, colleague Grbin, I have pointed out to my colleagues, Mr. Škorić, in part before you, this second part of what you have said, I do not consider any violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I have not seen any ugly words of insult, but rather the statement of his political attitude. If he were so rigorous, he could warn anyone, any exposure to all MPs. We're moving on from the replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Skorić attacked one incorrect way, and I have to react, Mr. Škorić, you're a public defender who went to protect a part of the population who is insinuating this greeting and who insults that greeting, she went to protect them from what is her job and appealed to some public figures not to use it or to insult one of our fellow citizens, you took her to a pillar of shame and you give signals that are characteristic of one past system. And that's not to be said in Croatia, that Mrs. Attorney General shouldn't protect those citizens she's in charge of, and if the authorities don't like it, let her resign, get out of place or maybe leave Croatia, maybe they would like to, maybe that's what Croatia would like, where they say And they only think what you think. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109246	I would like to thank my colleague Maras, Mr. Škorić's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109247	Thank you very much. I started my introduction with the attorney general, since she did. The reason why this topic came to the assembly session, because I also reacted to its report where I was talking about the abuse of its stigmatization, the symbols, where on the one hand criminalises the greeting “For Home Ready” and in the context of the Homeland War, and on the other hand rehabilitates the star five-point, and even the Chetnic features of the cemetery do not look negatively. In this sense, Lora Vidovic sees only the alleged Ustashaisation of Croatia, so she claims that the international system of human rights, developed after 2nd St. A war as responsible for the horrors of fascism and Nazism, that it is as a guarantee that such evil will never happen again. So, on the other hand, he rehabilitates something that this House also condemned by the 2006 declaration, so when the whole of Europe decided to mark the day of memory of the victims of totalitarian regimes on August 23rd, therefore, in all countries and thanks
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109248	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Skoric. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, in your debate, you have concentrated on many things, the smallest, on what was the subject of this interpretation. So I'll look back on that part you've dedicated yourself to, and that's an essradisation. And it just shocked me in your list, how did you miss the biggest estranged star of Croatian politics? How come you missed our President of the Republic, which is exactly, if we're going to watch her act since she was elected, actually the one that's among the most responsible for freezing the reputation of politics. She's not stuck to your eye. And who did you go to call? You went to call the ladies who were responsible for doing their job, both at the staff's post, and so on as chairman of the committee to decide on a conflict of interest. Why? Because they touched your lazy, because they wouldn't let any of your colleagues steal the law, which because of your pocket which because of... other reasons, such as Mr.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109250	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino, the answer, dear colleague Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109251	Thank you very much. When you don't have an answer, it's the easiest thing to do is to move things to another field. You now have a problem and you want to criminalise the greeting, and you did not mind, when your former president Ivo Josipovic received and decorated members of Hos and their family, for the same things you are accusing today and seeking to criminalise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109252	I thank my esteemed colleague Skoric for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109253	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Škorić, if I understand correctly, you said in your presentation that the greeting "For Home Ready" is a deep identity mark for the Croatian people. He's not that. He didn't, and you said yourself you didn't use him in '91. You don't use it today, and I believe it's not even your personal identity mark. So, I don't know what you're thinking. The other thing is, you've devoted your entire exposure to an attack on the attorney general, the person who's doing his job, and you need to do it in an independent way. And that's not how it's done here. Just because the text of her report doesn't match your political views. And where will we go, if every independent institution in Croatia is to be charged if the text of its report or its report does not correspond to our political views. That's the way to one... This is the way to impose only one truth in Croatian society, it is not the way we want to develop as a society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109254	I thank my colleague Škorić's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109255	On the contrary to my colleague Klisovic, the path of one mind, imposing one truth only when the attorney general in his report captures only one feature, when he does not mention other totalitarian features, when he does not mention the Chetnic symbols in Croatia, when he does not condemn other things, but is looking for a problem where he is not there. Who is the Ustasha in Croatia today to talk about the Ustashaisation of Croatian society?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109256	I thank my colleague Skoric for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. You've already got three colleagues, Bull. Now you will have an individual behind your colleague Glavasevic. Here's your colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's late, but here we are, and we're a little small, but I'd like to ask you for your attention. We don't have any left, if you've stayed up until now, then please yes. Thank you very much. So this is not normal, what we've just heard, is the best example of how we don't talk about difficult topics, about which there are deep divisions. So, showing off enemies who are imaginary, looking for enemies among political inexperiences, I mean that's a mark, that's if you want some communist mentality, that, among other things. It's a mark and fascism. So, in this way, that you, the institution of the Ombudsman, which is one of the demographic fuses, mark as a foreign agent, so it's not acceptable. Do you think that you, what you've done now, will in some way pray to your party boss? Well, Andrei Plenkovic will pull your ears out, your ears will pull out because you'll never hear from him like this, I don't know if you've ever heard anything like that from him. Stepping on institutions is not an acceptable way to argue your own political positions, it is not normal and you have no right to do so. This should be said and said from this place, it is not and should not be acceptable, not even from you colleagues and colleagues on the other hand, I ask the minister who listens to this also react to this and to look back. Because if we're just saying this, I mean what kind of political message you send if you keep quiet about this, you agree to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109258	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109259	Thank you very much. I totally agree with what you said to your colleague Glavasevic. And if Mr. Škorić has a problem with the fact that the Ombudsman's report does not mention a Chetnik feature which, if it appears in Croatia, offends Croatian citizens, then he should have just said that, it is insufficient to include other things, rather than justify it or attack it because it cited the Ustasha features in its Report. So completely one other discourse. No HDZ Prime Minister, not only Mr. Plenkovic, has ever spoken this way as Mr. Skoric. I haven't heard from Prime Minister Sanader that, who had moved the bust of Francetic and Mile Budak the same day she appeared in St. Rok and Gospić, nor Mrs. Kosor, and at least from the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. Is this the new HDZ discourse or not? You've been reading your presentation, is that your exposure or did you get it from downtown?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109260	I thank my colleague Klisovic. And you've talked your whole replica about something that isn't even a topic, and if I've already warned my colleague Skoric, you don't have to repeat the same mistake, but here's a colleague of Glavasevic's answer to the replica, so I hope he sticks to the topic we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109261	... I'm replicating my colleague Klisovic to what he was talking about, but I'd like to refer to this part about the Chetnic features. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which party is the current Home Secretary? Which party? From your colleague Škorić. If it is not ideal for you to discuss this matter with Mr. Bozinović, it will be better for you than for me, or for anyone on this side of the assembly. We chase them all, punish them all, absolutely. Let's do it, start it. You have a direct line to Mr. Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109262	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We have the next line, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109263	Thank you very much. Comrade Glavasevic, I'm sorry, but you'll have to accept that some in this Assembly can't understand what we're talking about. When it comes to people who, when Karamarko in Omis, set fire to a crowd with a loud voice and heard from the audience in the kevin pit with them headed by Josipovic, they did not rebel. Unfortunately, a few of them are sitting here in the hall, remembering very well that speech, including Mr. Škorić at the head with them. Then they probably listened with a smile to what Karamarko said from the pay phone and from the audience their party colleagues. I'm sorry that, I'm sorry that they didn't stand up to it at the time, but we might have had less problems with the ideologies we have today, if they had put up with it then, and my colleague Škorić, and others who are here with us in the hall today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109264	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. My colleague Glavasevic's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109265	Comrade Maras, I agree with you about a part of what you said, but you know about me I'm sorry? That we didn't stand up to it. When we were in power in the Republic of Croatia, when the party, whose party I was not a member at the time, was not today, when it was headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when it was in a position to oppose these things, was much, much more determined than it was done. I'm sorry about that, but you're absolutely right about this, I just don't think we can ignore our own responsibility. My responsibility as assistant minister at the time was because I couldn't influence it, it could only be what I kept quiet, or it wasn't in my focus, or I missed it. But here, on this side of the assembly, there were people sitting there sitting there, sitting there, sitting there, doing something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109266	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109267	Thank you very much. I have spoken through replicas of my position, I will repeat it again once again, but at first I must say that this debate is still about the Second World War, of which I do not know what tips, but it is certainly very welcome, especially to the ruling majority and HDZ, because here we have to talk, colleague Škorić has just talked about our Hoss, the winning army, and in part they have given one of the biggest coasts, the Hos's, that he is commenting that only we in Parliament do not decide on the Marrakek Convention, that it is simply counter-business through the Committee that has been brought to conclusion and that we here in parliament are talking about the nonessential things, the things they impose, the things that are on the familiar, and the Marrake Convention will pass without having passed through parliament. So she is very welcome to Andrej Plenkovic, his government and counterpart, Skoric. What do you say as a defense attorney, everything you said, that's familiar. Why isn't the Marrakek Convention here in Parliament in the plenary session? I would only tell you, all of you, don't fall, because of those who died in the Homeland War, don't fall like geese in Marrakesh, Petra Škorić, culture ministers, vice president of the Parliament. We're getting under the table. It's a very important topic. Minister i.e. Austria's Kurz prime minister, called Plenkovic, is much tougher than our prime minister who rejected the Marrakech Convention. Why doesn't he look up to Prime Minister Kurz? Why don't we talk about it? I do not see any reason for my colleague, Škorić, to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, because it is simply unclear for me that today this topic has come to order for a year and a half, says Mr Bernardić, that he is on the table and that today we are talking about this topic just as the Marrakesh Convention passed under the radar, i.e. where the Home Secretary will go there and confirm that. Don't go mad, gentlemen, because of these deaths you call upon, don't go down, and we don't lose our sovereignty as Parliament. Because Brussels officials are obviously just obedients and for them, Croatia is only a means and unwanted, as an unwanted woman, how to reach its objectives in the European Council, in the European Commission, in the European Parliament. And for... It is a good topic for them, after all that Andrej Plenkovic and his government have done, from the people to decide, so we are talking about amendments, the reference amendments to the laws that you have rejected after Istanbul and is now, of course, the protector of the foundation of the state, this debate has come to you, Andrej Plenkovic what is, simply untrue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to point out once again just for a little while, I think we must honor all victims of totalitarian regimes. And that's what our victim commits every victim, whether she died by the hand of the Ustasha, the Partisan, the Chetnik, us and the Nazi, the fascist, we have this obligation. However, comparing Croatian army troops with the winning, Croatian defence forces that fought at the most critical points of the Republic of Croatia from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, because of these people, we have no right to do so. We don't have the right. I have to say, I have a duty to compare them to Ustasha's new, any regime. For what? Because in Croatian troops of the Croatian winning army, they all participated in the same trench together from the children of Partisans to the Ustasha, to the national minorities. And on this occasion, we should always highlight the 9,000 people of Serbian nationality who fought against anti-Serb anti-fascism, the great, Serbian fascism. At this point, when we discuss Ustashas and partisans and this imposed topic. When we talk about this imposed topic because it is a matter of popularity to return and forget, to forget the important things, our two-thirds of Croatia are empty. Teleopers are robbing our country, and these dynastys are making the most of our money. The banking system draws no more money than in the Republic of Croatia. The economic system in ruins and, of course, these topics fit. But don't go to the Homeland War. We need to tell the truth about the Homeland War. Because any other story essentially creates divisions and divisions correspond to stakeholders who rob the Republic of Croatia and should talk about it, we need to find a common language. Once again, I saw in the debate both HDZ and SDP are their views, but I cannot accept that in the European People's Party it is together from the Chetniks of the Vucica Party and HDZ. How is someone going to explain that to me? Here's who's going to explain that to me? I find that unacceptable. So why not, you did not resist that man you brought in with the red wallpaper, threw under the feet of the red wallpaper that mocked Croatia here for a visit, which was welcomed at the highest level, I cannot understand that he was, together with the same coverage of democracy, cracked in the European Army party. I cannot accept that today it is those who are looking for fascists, anti-fescists, or I don't know who everyone is looking for, that people like former President Stipe Mesic, who spoke and spoke and spoke in Australia, called and exalted the NDH while the checks were being printed and now, today he is the greatest critic of all these times. At that time he spoke openly that NDH was the pursuit of the Croatian people and these people were now defenders, fellow Maras you were supporting him, you were defending him, you were defending him when we, on my proposal when he was taken away, when I proposed the office to take him away. ... So it's in us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The values are for division in the people. [[Upadica Brkić: Coliga Glasnović, please.]] That is why I feel once again that we need to turn to the future, not to humiliate victims in the Homeland War, all of these troops of the Croatian Army, the MUP and the HoS, and we need to stress the unity of the Homeland War. If we had any unity now, unity would certainly not be this situation in the Republic of Croatia, and today we would not be discussing and questioning HOS as a unit of the Croatian Army, no matter what anyone said at the time, no matter what people were killed in the streets of our cities, such as Ante Paradjik, such as Blaž Kraljević and numerous others. We can get into the depths, but these people have defended the Republic of Serbia from the worst of the Fascism. Therefore, comparing defenders from the Homeland War with any totalitarian regime is not good. That's why I told the SDP, this, your proposal is like being thrown in, like, a 16-year-old at the love of HDZ, so there's no talking about what you'd like to talk about. What is this protection of parliamentary democracy, when it comes to the Marrakek Agreement? Mr. Kovac's decision [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Plenkovic's listener. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109268	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj, for not interrupting you as well as your predecessors, but half of your debate has been spent on a subject that has nothing to do with this agenda item. Mr. Glasnović, I ask you not to enter the word of your colleagues as they speak and interfere with them as they argue. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109269	I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to protect those who are not here from false accusations and colleagues of Bulja and colleagues of Glasnović, who are there from the back bench, something under the hand, talking about President Stipe Mesic, I am proud that he was the president of the Republic of Croatia and I still have a very, very high opinion of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109270	Dear colleague Maras, first of all, you did not call for an article of the Rules of Procedure that was injured. As for the rest, I have not noticed that anyone has offended anyone, as far as the former president is concerned, since you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. In 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of this agenda point. We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109271	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. My colleague Maras is, I don't know, you warned him, and if you're a good colleague of Maras with former President Stephen Mesic, ask him where the checks are, he might remember, perhaps with time from Australia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109272	I thank my colleague Bulj, and I also do not think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and your political position, or your questions, of your fellow Members, can be said otherwise, rather than a way to take the Institute's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We've got replicas, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109273	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, most of your debate did not refer to what the subject is today, but I think it is fully justified because we as HS have been deprived of the right to discuss the Marrakech compact or the Marrakek Agreement. The President of the Committee on Foreign Policy has reached a conclusion, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is why we have asked the opinion of the Constitution Committee to discuss it, he did so on the orders of Andrej Plenkovic, while all of our neighbouring countries with whom we need to deal with the issue of migrants, exits from the Agreement, you mentioned Austrian Prime Minister Kurtz. And what is yet to be said here, not only did counterpart Maras support Stjepan Mesic, was also supported by Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109274	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji. With all my efforts and all due respect to you, I really didn't recognize in your replica the subject we're talking about today, but my colleague Bulj will hopefully answer in a way that puts it in the context of the topic we're talking about today, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109275	Indeed, my colleague Grumoja is not clear to me why they thus broke through the Marrakech Convention, of course, the Agreement. The compact, as they like to say. At the moment, they open this topic to push through the Marrakesh Agreement is they born like geese valleys, not only is Prime Minister Kurtz, but also Hungary, Italy and America, the United States, Israel, Australia, numerous Czechs, Slovakia and numerous other countries. But parliament does not decide on the very important issue. World theme number one. And that's why our VOCs are now getting killed. The same thing was when they arrested, located and transferred. Shax Label The definition and that's how it worked and with, here, the same thing. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109276	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj for his reply to the replica. Since you have repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure and did not stick to the subject, I give you a reminder based on Article. 239. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109277	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it's a matter of law. 238 on keeping the agenda theme. You have warned your colleague Bulji, but you too have the opportunity to interrupt in the discussion of one who does not stick to the topic of the agenda. I would understand that you do not react when it happens the first time, but when it happens continuously, as it is in the case of Mr Bulj and Mr Grumoja, then I ask you to respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in time because gentlemen have very business opportunities to impose the HS on a topic in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109278	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. And thanks for the reminder, I'll keep that in mind in the next debate. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109279	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've determined he's a violation. 238, when you spoke to Mr. Grumoja, but you did not do so in accordance with Article 238 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In 239, if you gave, I apologize, then I didn't register, my colleague tells me that he did. So we're talking. What are you talking about? [[Agreement: Kologa Klisović]] Say it specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109280	So, When Mr. Grmoya finished his presentation, speech, what he said, you found that he wasn't talking about the subject, right? [[Intruder: You didn't listen.]] [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109281	Did you give him an article? 139 warning? [[Intruder: Dear colleague Klisovic, have you finished?]] [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109282	Thank you very much. You can sit down. I thank you for your observation. I warned my colleague, as well as some other MPs. Because it was his first time, I didn't give him a warning, like I did to a respected colleague, Buljo. I don't think it's a misdemeanor... The Rules of Procedure this time and I would ask you nicely to let the chairman do his job in the future. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109283	A colleague named Peja Grbin has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. 38, 238. Of course it's me getting a warning, I don't see what I've done wrong, and he's like proposing this item of the agenda is one of the most attractive ways and the most natural way of singing Battle Chavoglava, so it's not all recorded, so we'd like to see the beginning of the letter, because it's just the end we saw in the Battle of Chavoglava, so I expect that as a proposing is in the next replica about the breach of the Rules of Procedure sings from the beginning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109284	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I don't think the injured Rules of Procedure are based. The 238 you called for. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Maras, please don't come in. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, we have one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109285	Thank you very much, Vice President. counterpart Bulj, not only Maras and Davor Bozinovic supported former President Mesic, was supported by at least some others indirectly. Here, for example. You raised your hand to the government in which his former cabinet chief Tomislav Karamarko was vice president. And you brought HDZ, who led the former head of President Stipe Mesic's office to power. And you've personally raised your hand, I've checked it out, a colleague of the bush isn't because he wasn't there at the time. So, you, at least indirectly, supported Stipe Mesic's policy by bringing his closest co-worker to power in Croatia, who was with your God Petrov vice president and who conducted detudmanisation along with Stipe Mesic, was in charge of the process. So, there are a lot of people who supported him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109286	I thank my colleague Djujic, it's not Mr Mesic's theme, it's something else, but here's the answer to the line. Dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109287	Yes, I am then proud to suggest that I abolish the Office of President Stipe Mesic's office where Bozinovic was, to support Maras, Karamarko, your party that supported it. I have never supported Stipi Mesic, and I have no feeling at all, but I have done something positive for Croatia. We've lifted the office of former president of the Republic of Croatia. Since you're nice to him, too, obviously, so it would be good to check, ask where the checks are. I was kicked out when I was Alkaric what he was when he was Mesic I've been expelled, here's Mr. Maras, when Mesic was on me.../incomprehensible/ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you've come down with him and... and you've eaten what's left of him. [[Intruder: Dear colleague Bulj, you are done with the replica.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109288	Dear colleague Bulj, I give you a reminder under the foundation of an article. 240th, taking away words until the end of this agenda point. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109289	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I wonder tonight tired, who needs all this? This is a tiresome policy, I'd say, this is purely a tiresome policy. Why ask the question "For Home Ready", is it a Croatian greeting or not? Dear gentlemen, for home yet during...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109290	Dear fellow Music, just a little bit. My colleague Grumo, Kolega Klisovic, please don't disturb my colleague, Mišic, while he discusses. If you have anything important, get it out of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109291	When "for a home ready" was mentioned in Croatian history, it was still in Zrinski, when he was surrounded by Siget, when the Turks surrounded him and should have taken him, then Zrinski said to his army this way: "For a home", and the army replied: "Ready and die". And then, they went into a counter-attack and broke the Turks. That's what you should know, nobody mentioned it. Of course, this same greeting during Ban Jelačić's same greeting, the motivation of the army, "For Home" said the commander, and the army said, "Die". When we go historically, what happened to the Croatian people, if we go to the 7th century, the Croatian people moved to Catholicism. And then he promised Pope Agoti, Agotin, Agaton, to Agaton, yes, that he would never have any claim towards anyone's country. And if we look at the history of the Croats, never the Croatian people of anyone ever, not one millimeter took away. If we look at what we've lost historically, then we can start since 1991 and 1945. Dear gentlemen, we should be an example of Europe, not in this war, not in any other territory. But we are constantly under pressure "For a home ready" which, of course, Pavelic mentioned to the Ustasha army, which I am enthralling from all of this, Nazism, uprisings and anything. But it's always sticking to our noses, even tonight. Why? So that he could be Croatian if he were Ustasha today. I don't see them anywhere, but a certain team sees it. For what reason? So let us see where they come from, who they are or their parents, what their parents used to do, how they raised them, let us watch war, why it was a union, because they were afraid, and they had to. When it's all settled down, when it's all over then we're going to charge the Croatian people again. Let's remember '91. year, let's remember the chess hall when it was put on the police hats, all the Serbian police turned it down and left the Croatian Army because they thought it was the Ustasha coat of arms and this was the Ustasha flag back then. So why don't you gentlemen say that Ustasha coat of arms and the Ustasha flag? Of course not, and now you're okay with it because you've got good pay, you're sitting in the assembly, UDBA's deployed, it's got all the privileges, it solves all the problems, and it's throwing us this bone that we're talking about tonight. Let's remember Vukovar, remember the five-point, remember the crimes in Vukovar, remember today when the monuments there are the Chetnik army that these gentlemen left on my right never, but never really stood up and said put it away. But when the "For Home Ready" monument appears, it all rises and then we see very, very well without talking about who's ruling and what's happening in Serbia where there's a legalised Chetnica that doesn't bother these gentlemen. Yeah. Let's remember our foreign minister when she said that Croatia has committed an aggression on BiH, a shame, not to believe, but it has also happened. When we were supposed to put on a chessboard, you can't put on a white field because it's Ustasha, let's tear down this church of St. Marka or change it worse, so all your constitution was Croatian as soon as we said we wanted Croatia to have it. We're wondering if we wanted one house taken from another, we didn't. I want everyone to live and enjoy all nations living well in Croatia today. But these people who are accusing us, who are putting in the uprising tonight, which here I hope I won't listen to anymore. We should all leave, so you discuss the subject. But then they'd say, we justify it, we stand up. So say, where are those Ustashas, where you see them, you may dream of those who have been killed by the Croatian people who have killed hundreds of thousands of the Communist party, Tito's crimes, no one has said Tito is a criminal, and he is. You won't say that, gentlemen, who occupied Sarajevo and where those five-pointers were on those hills, that poor people beat. It's not a crime. Who killed so many people in Srebrenica, and that's not a crime to you either. Bleiburg is not a crime without a court. The caves all over Zagreb and around and in my place where I was born and where I came from 1,300 people were killed after the war.../incomprehensible/... it is not a crime either. So we're wondering where is this crime? If this wasn't November 29th by accident November, to repeat and see what they say in Belgrade, the news has put Yugoslavia on it you want me, maybe it bothers you that it's not Yugoslavia anymore. What your parents enjoyed while some were imprisoned and persecuted. That was good for you, that's not how the poor Croatian people suffered those 50, 60 years of communism, naked islands, prisons, killing, persecution, that's all good, it's democratic, so they say they're Ustasha, they should be killed. So we need to be expelled from the assembly today you need to take.../incomprehensible... to drive us out of here. So what are we here for? My lords, let us leave our constitution, we forgot it Croats, we just wanted our native Croatia that I cross over it no more, and those who want to put the uprising inside are those who are some of the UDBEs who are forced to cough us up, so you mention Austria. Yeah, let's check out these people who are using Austria's whale to get their hands on you. What Maras said, that Tudjman said the Serbs had inserted "For Home Ready", that if they had politics, they meant what they were doing. It is not an entrepreneurial greeting for Maras, it is a Croatian old Croatian greeting, but all that is good for Croatia, which the Croatian people love, you cross it. You try to totally kill us here, say we're not mature people to have our own country. We're always being called by someone for corruption, that doesn't bother you. Kidnapping property in Tito's state doesn't bother you. Because it says proletariat people who have.../incomprehensible/... kidnapped. Kidnapping apartments, kicking women out, kids out of the house, that's nothing to you. When the Chetniks were harassing them here, no one condemned them, not today, not in Vukovar, not in Bani, not in Bosnia, not anywhere. We have the Serbian Republic on whose land? BiH, if we look at it during 1465, was clean, there was no Serbian or any Orthodox church, there were no Turks, today they took everything away from us, and yet we blame, again blame the president of Bosnia, we cannot choose the Croatian people, so Bosnia has nothing to do here anymore. And historically, it's Bosnia Croatia, gentlemen. And even today in this assembly you have so much courage, you have so much guts to say that we all got up and that we all support "For Home Ready" and Antu Pavelic, forget it. We have Croatia, we have it, we don't give it, and you will never submit it again, never again, gentlemen, and we know where you come from, who you are and what you are, it's clear to all of us. Don't worry, we don't know. So this is just a waste of time, a waste of electricity, a waste of energy here in the assembly, and now I'm stuck for it, so as long as we can, as long as we go. Let's black keep Croatia, we have the media, only if the question is to say that Croatia is not good everyone can't wait to say, let's say it in the media, let's see it, nobody asks what's done right. No one, no one asks what our children have gone for, why, because they've had enough of Ustasha and Chetniks, enough in '45. Years, let's go since '91. Let's not forget it, it's someone's radio let's settle down, let's forget it. Whoever went to Vukovar, who said the crimes of Milosevic, all the Serbs, at least they should say that we live in the Republic, we're building on it, no one came and declared it, that I'm building and the Pupovac went away the other day, so under the Serbian flag put them in the Danube, as an excuse for everything, so it's kind of a lie, be honest, say, we're guilty, we don't think the Serbs are blood, however, if the Chetniks rule there We don't mind it. Bor's village is ours. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109292	Dear fellow Music, thank you. I'm asking you nicely yes, don't point a finger at anyone here at the Assembly. I know you spoke in principle, but you insinuated certain things, I don't think that's correct, it's not right for your colleagues. [[/Intruder: No, I generally spoke, I don't resist.]] We have one replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Muscle, in fact, I had no intention of getting involved in this debate, it's pretty late and I'm giving myself the right to be defocused, that my brain isn't working, that I don't understand some scary, but you can really explain to me who you've been dealing with through your debate. With me, no, let me just ask you, I mean, because I'm telling myself that I'm tired, that I have reduced cognitive abilities, that I don't understand, but I don't understand who you've been dealing with, what unidentified flying objects or what kind of yellow, little green, yellow, red, to me really, here, I must admit, it's not clear, with entrepreneurs, no. [[Intruder: With you]] No, I don't get it. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Muscle because I really don't understand his discourse, this seems to me like he's having a fight with himself. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[I thank my colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109294	Answer, dear fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109295	Vice President of the Parliament, colleague of the Voice, so you really didn't understand me, here I am now going to tell you, and who left us until this late evening, I was talking about these people who were looking for it, who were making the signatures, about them, about them, about them, about them. If you're not clear, here, you're some teacher, teacher, teacher, I don't know what you are, so here I was talking about you who filed some kind of request to get you out of there once, but next year you'll do it again and for the next 20 years, which is your goal, is that you don't know anything else, that you know how to do, you'd go into entrepreneurship, but you'd better sit in Parliament and take this people's money and do nothing and Parliament like this and talk about empty stories. This is an empty story, a completely empty story in HS where you keep pushing this people's uprising, which, on your part, ma'am and you're taking part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109296	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. Dear fellow Music, I ask you nicely, do not count when you have no word, let go, later debate. Dear colleagues Sabina Glasovac, a colleague of Misic is from Slavonia, and there is a frequent ekavica, so there is no need to be surprised because also colleague Dragana Jeckov talks to her with an equay, so we don't blame her. We continue the debate, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109297	Thank you. Again, he knows which way to this Assembly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand, quotes in English.]] Indeed, it is already too late and debate, I think that, through this debate, there are already a lot of arguments, and the quasi arguments have been made, and in the last few discussions I think we have taken a huge turn from the course, so I would like to do so in this individual debate, not in front of the promoter, but in my individual I would like to go through three arguments or attempts at counterarguments that I heard on the other hand during today's debate, and I would like to try to challenge. The first argument is that "For home is ready" depends on the context and that in the context of the Homeland War he is actually quite fine and that in this way he is also part of the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the part where he talks about the fact that Homeland War is one of the main foundations of Croatian statehood, not disputed, not entering what is main and what is not, yet I think it is necessary to say that it is not true. So, I think I've been through my discussions before, and I'd like to repeat that now, I'd like to argue that successfully, that "For a home ready" cannot depend on the context, it's completely directly related to the greetings used by the Ustashas. HOS used this greeting and was directly inspired, therefore, especially those who created it were directly inspired by the Ustasha movement and used all its symbols, including that greeting. It is not just that greeting, there is also the question of the player who also appears on the flag NDH which is a very common motive in the coat of arms of HOS and elsewhere. There is also that symbol that lies on the drops of HOS that we could see, let's say, on the head of fellow Hasanbegovic in some photographs of his youth, that hat is actually no different from that of the Ustasha cap. So neither the ZDS, nor the other signs that the HoS uses have an indirect connection that then allows for a distance from the symbols used by NDH and used by Ustashas. So it can't depend on the context. It is also not part of the Constitution because the Constitution clearly states that, in fact, the period of NDH is a break in the period of Croatian statehood. President Tudjman, as quoted several times tonight, in the event that there is some clue of ambiguity, so today, a number of years after that time when, when the Constitution was written, we can debate, because a small number of us here were present when it was done, can debate it or have a misunderstanding whether, as the founder had in mind, but the statements of President Tudjman very clearly deny it and clarify it. So President Tudjman calls them black shirts, so I think it's very clear here, that as far as the alleged installation of Hos or Ustasha of this greeting in the context of the Homeland War, then it's okay in the Constitution, I think it's just not true. Another thing to say here, which I really think is really, really several times we've been spinning about today's debate about, the merits of HOS in the Homeland War should be very clearly separated from the symbols that we, and that greeting that we're talking about here today, we're not talking about HOS as a unit, we're not here to judge any of its members, the judgment about whether they're advocating Ustasha ideology or not, we're talking about what symbols they used and are these symbols, is it even possible to separate them from Ustasha symbols? My position is that's not the case. So, the merits of Hos and Hos as a unit in the Homeland War have no sign of equality with Ustashas, but the ideology of which the right party was ultimately, which was founded by Hos, was inspired by Ustasha ideology, and that relationship was direct. Inclusion in the Homeland War for many young people at that time was not possible but through HOS, and in some ways for many young people who have decided to join the defense of the Republic of Croatia was or will accept what the HOS uniform implies, or you will not have a chance to defend your country. So I think it's really necessary to separate and completely all those who think that this is in some way equalising guilt or, say, equating the ideology that HOS symbols represent with the merits of HOS or the unit itself and by representing the unit in the Homeland War, it's simply not true. Besides, I can quote my own father who said that if it hadn't been for Hos, Vukovar would have fallen in the ninth month. So he didn't say that it wasn't for home ready, he didn't say that there were no Ustasha symbols or Hos symbols, no, but that there weren't those young people who actually could only be involved in defending their country. And that's the important thing, there's no sign of equality between the ideologies represented by young people who got involved in this. If there were those who advocated this ideology, it's quite clear, after all, one of the commanders has a direct adjective to Adolf Hitler, I wouldn't go into it because today is not a topic, but an argument to what I said earlier. And in the end there's another argument, another thesis has gone through the debate tonight, which is, here we have, the Associations have a registered sign, they're registered in different periods, and even when it was HDZ's government, when it wasn't the HDZ government, and as it is now, well, I mean, but making mistakes doesn't mean that it was the right thing to do, and it doesn't mean that we don't have the possibility today, or the obligation to correct mistakes. I've been speaking quite indignantly about the Prime Minister's Commission for Totalitarian Modes or whatever it's called, and I think it's completely justified, because it's not necessary, because Austria needed some kind of Committee to make a list of symbols that it would penalize, that would sanction when they saw them, that would punish. I think it's perfectly clear that the link between the symbols we're talking about here, and the greeting is one of them, with the Ustasha movement straight and that today it is possible to honor all those who have thus joined the defense of the homeland without using it, those symbols. What's wrong with the Croatian chess room? What's wrong with the Croatian coat of arms? What's wrong with the Croatian flag? There won't be any less merit for HOS in defense of the homeland without that symbol. He won't. Especially not in those places where this symbol can and can have, because it always has a complete meaning that is completely unrelated to the Homeland War. Finally, here we talked about the past, a lot, we talked about the present, and this debate of my colleague Pusic, I think it was very good, she brought out some very good thesis, but at the end of the day, however much this is really a debate about the present, we have to and we have to think and create a future. A future that is good for our people, not a future in which, because of other things and these things, people will feel bad and leave this country. I don't want to anymore, I think it's inappropriate in this debate to go into some kind of patho, so then I won't do it either, but this is really everywhere in the civilized world and in our neighborhood, and in, and in, and elsewhere, this isn't the subject, I can agree with those who said it shouldn't be a topic. And you know why it's not a topic? Because for everyone else there is no dilemma about what that greeting and the other symbols that are related to it represent. And I don't think it really should be for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109298	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We have a replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109299	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm very sorry that you're a young man and so many lies, you lied tonight. Listening to you a little while ago and now, that's something I have to warn you, because by your performance, by your stories, you're inviting exactly the youth to leave the Republic of Croatia. All these stories of yours are... thoroughly told that in the Republic of Croatia it is bad and that the Croatian people are evil people, which is not true. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to ask you if I wrote it down, so why are you insulting the Croatian defense army and why? Why, whine your soul to the great majority of the Croatian people, why do you bring out, in the name of the great majority, the untruth that we are haters when it's the Homeland War? When the Homeland War has just shown character, dignity contrary to every false effort you make [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Because you want to make the Croatian regiment a criminal [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Ustasha, which is not true. [[Employer: A fellow potter]] I'm sorry I can't talk to you all the way. Thank you. [[Employer: A fellow potter...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109300	I ask you kindly to stick to the time and to choose the words to which you address fellow Members of Parliament. Here's your colleague, Glavasevic, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109301	I mean, which one of you did you sit on your ears while I was talking, while I was talking, did you listen to what I was saying? So, literally, I was literally saying the opposite of what you're saying, if you're not able to follow the debate, if you're late, go home, no problem, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109302	A colleague of Glavasevic, and I also ask you to pay attention to the words you address because the Croatian public is looking at us, unfortunately, we are sending very bad messages tonight from this Croatian House to the Croatian public and we have said a lot that we would not allow our children in primary schools, and we are here adults, chosen by the people, representing our people and making sure that they live better and that the Republic of Croatia is arranged to be decent and correct and to respect the differences and different attitudes and different views, so that I ask you all together who are here present to think about these details. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Stevo Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109303	Dear President, the lustration, the magic word of lustration that no one mentions all night, and why the lustration? If there had been lustration, there would have been more democracy, there would have been more freedom for the Croatian people, and this is what one gentleman said sitting here in some term of Ante Kovacevic, who spent 8 years in prisons and cadets just because he had a different opinion than his contemporaries, who were communists, anti-fascists and who fought over some Fascist quasi that they invented when needed, so that they would deal with their non-experienceds. Imagine that beautiful word of lustration. If there were lustration, many of you wouldn't be here because your fathers wouldn't be able to study and learn everything they, their followers, on us, on our third knee, something that we haven't even been at all, applied. Why are they doing this? For 70 years, the same one from one line has been persecuted by one and the same Croatian people. What people? Domicile people. Who are those who persecute them? So these are all those who are sitting on horses, donkeys, crawling, crawling, crawling, crawling to Zagreb and a desert city without an army defending that city, entering that city, and what did they do? They even parked donkeys in Ban Jelačić Square, they asked where the street is, where it is, and then they parked those pans, they didn't go out and they took over this city and today they call the same, they regret what they failed through everything they did because after 70 years the Croatian defenders had nakeded them, beat them, cleaned them up, cleaned them up with what? They didn't yell at vivva zapata, they didn't yell at alga bugra, they didn't yell at me, they didn't yell at the death of fascism, but many of them were old heroic greeting "For a home ready" who'd been going through centuries, although at some point it meant something else and maybe it reminded someone of some other time, but we weren't in those times, and we didn't need it. I'll tell you a warm story from the Homeland War. In the 91st year, somewhere in the fall, before the fall of Vukovar, a small group, not those, but special forces, were there about 10 of us, counting 10 if two of us ran away, quit, and that was it. Imagine in one Slavonic village of Jankovci, I will tell you why I received more than 10500 votes twice from 14th place, I have visited all these villages, I have welcomed these barbarians everywhere, and the Byzantines, and the commies, and the bearers of the five-point star, I have welcomed them, believe, many have not returned home thanks only to the special police, some call them Croatian and Croatian defence forces who had nothing but battles, sights, a cry that encouraged them in the darkness in the night, who poured fear on them again, some call them JNA, some call them Chetniks, some call them anyway, but, some call them friends and distant relatives who many here in the Republic expected to be released again, to re-enter them, some call them JNA, some call them Chetniks, some will call them anyway, but they will never return to their son, and they will never be healthy. You know why? If there's any need. You know why? Because there are Croats everywhere, all over the world. Many are scattered in various ways. But many are only in the hearts of Croatia. There's another word called evolution. I had something from biology. Imagine evolution. Many of us have evolved into evolutionary degrees, turned from something but only one plant, and you know what it's called, ambrosia, and as in Slavonia, I call it partisan, and only it has not evolved, but it has remained in its original state, since the time of the Bolshevism and then in communism, then through the partisan that dragged to Zagreb and then evolved into some others and today it would evolve and in no way eradicate so that this Croatian meadow shines with full brilliance and that it would give the most beautiful fruits of democracy and freedom. Imagine you, she never evolved, so we evolved five times already, turned into what? To the Croats. We're Croats, I'm Croat, I'm Catholic. I'm a defense attorney. At my place is also hailed with “Glory Jesus, ” there is no“Death Fascism, ”“ Praised Jesus ” My neighbor says hello when he's not on the street, but the shocker lifts his hat when he walks by the house, and that's the kind of people. [[Intruder on the side: I Maria, yes.]] We don't look through the blinds and under the triggers when someone comes to our yard like some do there. I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues here, so to remember Europe's resolution, we need to deal with totalitarianism, with communism. The whole courteous Europe has broken up with that long ago, and what are we waiting for? And why are we waiting? Because you've organized the field. While I was in Jankovci, Vukovar, Flash, Storm, Maslenica, Medak pocket and Dubrovnik, I arrived on these short legs, imagine, I arrived and many of you didn't. You call me, I'm not readable, maybe I haven't read some of your books because I see that you've learned badly from them, I've learned from my own very well enough and I've learned well because I've survived, and I'll survive every time I've learned everything I've learned from real and real life by respecting only desire, the will of my people. I don't need a man who's smart enough to lead me anywhere, I'm smart enough to see what's good for me, what's good for the Croatian people, and the division you're imposing on us is no good at all. There have been many wars, and I know there will be more because history is a teacher of the future, we live today when wars are already being fought around us, when the bear plays with the neighbors, it will come to your yard. So what do we do? Are we going to take a ride back to '41? Or we'll take a ride back to '91.? Think about it, Comrades, comrades and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109304	I thank my colleague Cule. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. Here's the late hour, I think it's all said and it's very hard to say something new right now. It is crucial that we in Croatia should be aware that we must have compassion for all innocent victims from all sides that have fallen and clearly only so can we go forward. I think that today in Croatia no one is a normal fascist because I don't believe it and I'm sure there is but the fact is that Croatia's reality has been following the situation throughout Croatia for the last 500 years that when it wanted an independent Croatia, it was a dangerous act. All the way to President Tudjman when HDZ was a party of dangerous intentions, what was the danger of intent then. A dangerous intention was the desire for Croatia to be independent. And as a confirmation of that, very little if we go back to our past, '89. went to jail for the song "Get Up Bane" because it was normal and it was Ustasha at the time, the song "Get Up Bane". And this stigmatization of Croatia and those who lived on their own Croatia has followed the whole period, since the last 500 years Croatian reality and we today must not allow and I think that should be a key message here, we must not let Croatia be stigmatized, that it is placed in a way that it is fascist because it is terrible. I don't see fascists anywhere. I don't see Croatian fascism anywhere. Any kind of exce individual, there is no reason for Croatia to be stigmatized. We had a clear situation with the appearance of President Tudjman and the state of the Croatian state, the President who invited all Croats to unity and unity because he was aware that only a unique one can achieve this touch goal, the eternal goal of all Croats that we have our independence. And thank God the Ustasha and Partisan sons accepted it and stood under Tudjman's banner and went to create an independent state and that helped us win the Homeland War. And any separation can't be good for Croatia. And Homeland War is the foundation of the modern Croatian state, and as is said here, Croatian defenders are the greatest anti-fascists, because they fought against fascism that wanted to conquer Croatia. We must never interfere with that. Today he's trying to transfer responsibility to this government. And if the SDP had two mandates, two options to solve this thing that I'm talking about today as a big problem. But at the time of the SDP, you understand, colleagues from the SDP, that you and your Government and your Ministry of Administration then and your minister, registered associations and those associations had the same signs. That didn't bother you at the time. And today you found this as a cause for the creation of a major problem and the stigmatization of Croatia. I don't think that's correct. And we need to be aware that we can't compare to Austria right now. In Austria, it wasn't a frat-killing war. Austrians didn't fight each other in Austria. We have a situation in Croatia, unfortunately. We had a situation like that. And today, today, we are calling for a clean-up of the past here, in these parliamentary benches and among politicians, certainly can't bring a good future for Croatia. We today, my view is that we should leave it to experts, scientists, historians, and that's the theme for them. Today we must think about Croatia's future, and the future of Croatia can, and we are responsible for creating a better life for young generations and solving the biggest problem we have, which is the departure of people from Croatia. That's a real Croatian problem. Because with this debate tonight, we're not going to have a millimeter of this problem, nor are we going to solve it, not a millimeter. And that's why I think it would be correct if we didn't talk here about Kevin's pits or this if you hadn't finished your job in 1945, because that would lead you to new calls for new wars. If your goal is to fight in such a way, then I don't think you contribute to Croatia's future. We're talking about the problems that are affecting this people and that can bring better tomorrow. But here, through your debate here, several of you speakers have, some have said that they are a little grown-up and mature, and they call on Tudjman, you have called on Tudjman, that's good, because Tudjman has united the Croats, and I believe that this is the maturation and adulthood that you have called on here, that it is sincere and that this calling on Tudjman is certainly correct and honest and that it will bring better to Croatia tomorrow because only such a policy of peace, community, fighting for a better future, we can bring better tomorrow, and this past and problems from the past leave to scientists and historians.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109306	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. We have replicas. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109307	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, you are in your discussion of ignorance of both the past and the present. First, the Austrians had a civil war and they fought in it, it wasn't as bloody as it was in our early 40s, but it was. And today in Austrian politics leaves consequences. It's knowledge of the past, and it's less important. But you don't know the present. What we're discussing here today, the consequences of Karamark's policy. And what we are discussing today directly, this interpretation, the consequences and the fact that in November 2016, in November 2016, when your government was headed by Croatia, a panel was placed in Jasenovac with the inscription "For Home Ready". Not anywhere, in Jasenovac. And at the location, where was the camp's headquarters. If you can't figure it out, then it's just that What can I tell you? I'm sorry for you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109308	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Answer, Comrade Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109309	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you yourself have confirmed that in Austria he was not such, such hatred or the kind of mutual war he was in Croatia, among the Austrians, what was in Croatia. And as for the currentity, so you are, your government has just registered this association that has set up the memorial board. And you didn’t mind that in her coat of arms there was then “for a home ready. ” And then you transfer... And this government has removed that record. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And put in place outside the camp area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109310	Thank you, next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109311	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sanader, you say, on two occasions, you said it should be left to experts and historians. I don't need historians telling me what Fascism was and who were fascists and what they were doing in II. Holy shit. The war and how many people were killed under that ideology and that there were laws that prescribed someone to go to camp and kill him just because he was another nation, faith or skin color. And that was the policy of a country that had this greeting that we're talking about. That doesn't require an expert or a historian, I guess it's just not clear to some in HDZ. And when you say why our government didn't solve it, there was no problem at the time of our government. He began to grow at the time of our last government, when Tomislav Karamarko released him from the bottle, and we, yes, mentioned to Kevin the pit on several occasions, because at your meeting in Omis, your party colleagues yelled after Karamark's bomb talk about the SDPs "In Kevin Cave with them". And that's that impatience that's been rising at the moment. You created it as HDZ, and that's why we're asking you to solve it. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109312	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Here you go, Comrade Sanader, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109313	That's not exactly the information either, because neither Karamarko nor any speaker mentioned it, nor Kevin's pit, nor did he say that someone should be thrown in Kevin's pit. It's the truth, it's the same, but you're digging now, digging in costumes, digging in trouble. I can ask you so, so your colleague is here in front of you, said a bad job we did in the 45s. Is that normal? So I tell you, neither that nor Kevin's caves are the future of Croatia. In this context I said, we are responsible here, not to shed light on the past, or to clarify the past, but to create a better future in this people and these children, who go from Croatia. It's our responsibility, we have to discuss these topics. And we won't solve the past, the past has been and we won't solve it. We have to solve the future, and in that sense I've spoken and appealed to you and now you've called, I'm glad you've matured, that you've called on Tudjman. And Tudjman wanted the unity of the people, and he did not seek a way to fight the people, but to build the future of Croatia and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109314	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. Next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109315	Thank you, Vice President. Here I won't be long in this late hour, since the assembly is empty. My colleagues, for the better part, left HDZ, and I have nothing to explain to my colleagues in the SDP, so I'm just going to reflect on two things that came up in the debate. It's a question of whether this debate is needed or not. We certainly don't need to evacuate old divisions or interpretations of history. It doesn't even have to talk about Ustashas and Partisans, it really doesn't make sense. It is only relevant if we are talking about the present, or if we are talking about the atmosphere of tolerance, the atmosphere of acceptance, the publication of Ustasha characters symbolising a country that sold Dalmatia to Italy, handed it over. Which had camps all over this country, racist laws, everything that harms the Republic of Croatia, so the atmosphere of quasilegism, the atmosphere of quasi-citizenism, is allowed in our society. That's what's wrong, and that's what we have to stand up to. It was said in the debate that the Homeland War is the cornerstone of the modern Republic of Croatia. Okay. But the foundations are also mentioned in our Constitution. And it says there that contrary to NDH and everything that is related to it, so also its sign, that Croatia is based on the decisions of the Antifascist Movement, i.e. ZAVNOH. It's these constitutional values when it comes to question, in our society, that we all have to raise our voice. First of all, it must be raised by the government, it must absolutely defend the constitutional values contained in our Constitution. And that government won't do it in a way that speaks undecided language. Yeah, when insigns appear in public space to tolerate them. What we expect from the government, as he did, for example, the former prime minister of Croatia and HDZ President Sanader, when he quickly removed from Gospić and St. St. The hand. The rapid removal of the insignium automatically neutralizes any halabuca on issues like this and the opening of these discussions that we have here today. So, it's not HDZ, it's not the SDP that opened this debate, but unfortunately, the indecisiveness of the Croatian government to quickly deal with the insignions of the fascist regime opens this debate because it put the wind in the back of those who, right here on that wave and live. We referred to President Tudjman, yes, we should continue that reconciliation policy. That policy, which since the Homeland War, has somehow begun to come to life in our country. And these extremities need to be neutralized. But you won't neutralize them, in a way that you're ruling them, to say that these are sensitive questions, to say that, I don't know, because someone in the Homeland War used the greeting "For Home Ready" or put it on their sleeve, that it was automatically cleaned greetings from its basic meaning that he had in the Ustasha regime. That's not gonna happen, that's not true, is it? And therefore, it is not the way to go, but the way of a decisive reaction every time such a thing appears. Well, look, a five-point star has been mentioned. Who today was just sitting behind a five-pointed star, no one from the SDP, Mr. Culey. And the coat of arms of the former state. And then he says I don't know what about who. So we can't just mourn the hunger of such people. Double connotations, that's not how the government should answer this question. It's just a quick action. And no one argues that in the Homeland War, HOS had on his sleeve "For Home Ready". But it was a party army. Tudjman never allowed the HDZ to enter "For Home Ready". He never allowed himself into the National Guard Assembly, the Croatian police, all the official institutions. All we have to do is keep going that way. SDP doesn't ask for anything more than that. Nor would we be initiating this debate today, if the government had responded quickly and resolutely to all instances of the emphasis of such signs and greetings in the Croatian public. This question is legally arranged. Our legislation has sufficient grounds, our case law has given sufficient judicial judgments, and the Constitutional Court and the criminal courts. Therefore, we do not need new legislation, we do not need a commission to deal with the past. What did that bring us? It has brought us only some vague recommendations, which, as the government will now implement, in what way, it would like to know. And the commission as such actually just reflected the government's escape from this problem. What we only expected from the government, a quick decisive reaction. And it just wouldn't be this. Exactly what Angela Merkel does when Nazi symbols appear in Germany. Stops first and first responds to them. And after that, there's no need to talk too much about it in public anymore. And that's what the SDP is looking for. A quick and decisive reaction every time symbols of the Ustasha regime appear in public, hails the Ustasha regime. It's the only thing. Because that's how you'll best kill that question on the public stage, and no one wants to talk about it too much, but we need to respect the foundations of our country. We must respect our own Constitution and defend it when anyone questions him. And any part of our constitution. So today the SDP here defends the Croatian Constitution. Today, the SDP is asking the government to do the same. To continue the policy that the governments so far have, all governments have led. From President Tudjman, via Sanader onward. And all of SDP's governments. That's what we're asking, and I'm asking for that to be considered, not to give in to each other what it is, when it is, and I don't know, so on. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109316	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. On behalf of the government, Minister of State Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, at the end of this debate, I would just like to repeat and confirm what my colleague Bosnjakovic has said, but what the Prime Minister has pointed out on many occasions in his address and refer to this topic. Our government has no doubts about the need to be clearly positioned against all totalitarian systems, according to all the non-democratic regimes and with the consequences and with the sign and that we must all act in the right order in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic that obliges us to do so. As far as this interpretation is concerned, I would like to remind you that it was just the government's engagement that removed that panel from Jasenovac and that there was a lot of debate about it in public space that she did not chamber the regime that was mentioned here so many times, which we all single-mindedly condemned, but that she has memorialized the victims of the people who died in the Homeland War. Unlike previous governments that did not act and did not do much of what they could, our government has formed a Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes that adopted a document of dialogue and this is not some committee, as it has been pointed out here several times, these are respected scientists, prominent public life figures who have formulated a document that achieves the very level of consensus that can be achieved on these topics in Croatian society as a basis for further action. And what is what we should do next? We need to continue our research, intensify research into all victims of the 20th century, including the symbols and messages they used and shared just so they could, that's a basic prerequisite for us to ensure, especially for young generations, to gain their views, to form their views on all these phenomena. So, first research, second education, to raise young generations who will know the values of what has led us, where we are today, to have an independent democratic sovereign state and who will know how to put themselves in line with those events in history that need to be condemned. We are also determined, in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission, to work on the interpretation and implementation of the legal rules of existing norms that we have both in the Croatian Constitution and in Croatian laws, being consistently respected and implemented. Here, many times today and tonight, there was talk of responsibility, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and all of us who act in it are extremely responsible. We are responsible because in politics, we have more responsibility than others for spoken words, for our actions, we are responsible in the first order towards young people, we must teach them and give them reason and faith to respect institutions, to love their homeland, to respect the symbols of the Croatian state, our flag, our coat of arms, and that is what we are working on, we are solving a number of problems that have been delivered to the agenda of this government by inaction in the past and we are determined, instead of free debates that are being debated, we are actually sending a message of respect, democracy, tolerance and we are sure that we will have confirmation of Croatian citizens for such an approach and for such policy. I hope we have both understanding and support in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109318	I would like to thank the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Nina Ouljen Koržinek, for this final word. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we are at the end of a really long debate and I think it's really a lot of arguments, which are real and serious, and none of the real or serious were said tonight, but... I must say, I'm sorry for this final presentation of the minister, some things are missing. I mean, I can understand the position as it was said today. This kind of interpretation, it doesn't exist, it's not very common to accept or say, you know what, we screwed up, maybe we shouldn't have, or you're right in some part of it. Okay, I understand that position. I suppose Croatia is waiting for another huge amount of democratic growth and sometimes you can say that someone justifiably criticized you is one of those things that we need to grow up in. You said you referred to this committee, so I'm not, I absolutely accept responsibility for disdaining the commission, but it should be said that I did not disrespect its members, who are extremely respected. What I have been downplaying is the fact that this commission is a fig leaf and a delegation of responsibility because when you want to do something, and you have an election mandate, so you have a mandate from citizens and citizens to lead the country, then you don't need a commission. Then you have a mandate. Then you need political will. Only sometimes decisions can cost you and have consequences. Here is one thing that is not the most directly related to the topic, but it is important to mention because it is one of the reasons why there is no political will to solve this problem, which is the fact that the HDZ has made a terrible move to the right in its previous period and where it has released and allowed over-representation to radically right politicians and politicians and their ideas. So more representation than they would have had if they had run for parliamentary elections themselves. Okay, so that's what you should say. And I stand quite certainly in that position, I believe, given that they mentioned it in their discussions tonight, and many of my colleagues and colleagues. But aside from that. So, this commission has said something about this problem, and if this commission and its decisions are what this government wants to call and refer to, let's see within that argumentary framework as far as possible. There are things that can be done right now, not done. So there are Croatian laws that can be respected and that can be implemented. There can be written instructions on the implementation of laws which would then ensure that, if indeed, the Commission has decided, that in one specific context, this greeting is okay, and in no other, that whenever it appears in another context, then this law is applied, which is otherwise by the way, the breaking law, among other things. This legal framework can also be improved. If, if we accept the claim that there is a problem, whether in the implementation of existing laws of the Republic of Croatia, we are either with a concrete aspect of what this law refers to, or with the appearance of Ustasha characteristics in the Republic of Croatia. Then you can make some kind of special law or change the existing law and make it more effective. But it doesn't work either, because, and I mean, it's the reason for this. Many times tonight we've said it's very difficult to go forward if we're not done with what happened before, if we haven't provided adequate treatment for the past. And in that sense, I say, let's go, and in my earlier discussions I said, "Okay, let's agree to sanction everything, let's agree on what are the characteristics of what criminal and totalitarian regimes we're going to sanction, but then let's sanction them all." When someone shows up with some kind of advocacy of nationalisation of private property, when someone shows up with a grand communist party, when someone shows up with, I don't know, a picture of Joseph Broz Tito, if at some point it's also possible to sanction, eyes, sanction. But we already have something that we know is definitely necessary to sanction and, in fact, there is practice, occasional, and not always consistent, but practice exists, that these things are sanctioned. Then why isn't it working now to be consistent? Then why isn't it working already now to make it something systematic? A very important thing has been said here, I think in the discussion of counterpart Pusic. Radical extreme rightists who appear across Europe, they are not only in Croatia. The first victim, and perhaps one of the more direct victims of such parties across Europe, were primarily some kind of social democratic option. But make sure the moderate right parties are the next target. It's, I mean, it's, uh, radical options don't tolerate competition. It's that famous Popper paradox of tolerance. You can't tolerate someone who's not tolerated, it has its limitations. So somewhere you need to pull the line and say away from this we won't, we can't tolerate this. We have to sanction this, and there's no excuse for that. It's not possible, I mean, if it's tolerated, I mean, we're all collectively hurt. There has been something here tonight that I believe that, on several occasions, something that I find completely unacceptable in one democratic state, in one member of the European Union, not because we are a member of the EU, but because Croatia is a common vision, it is a common vision, not a convocation of the Parliament, but a lot of Parliaments. And when a colleague Petar Škorić spends his individual debate on a dog's car, he'll turn the staff's lawyer's office just because she did her job and practically call her a foreign agent, who doesn't work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, he puts it, among other things, a target on her back. I asked you, immediately afterwards, Madam Minister, to respond to that. You're not. You're not from this place, and you should have, you had a chance at your final word. I've been waiting for that. You didn't publicly respond to that. You have not responded publicly, you are a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Madam Minister. So, in my opinion, that was the lowest point of this debate. There were a lot of those who weren't worthy of the levels we were supposed to cultivate here. I know that even this closing word drank the few of us who stayed here, but is And I will, so there's... [[- Intruder.]] But the point is, here we're talking about things that are related to the future of Croatia and about which we need to talk about, at least at 23.52 p.m., even before, here's how many of us are, the few of us. At least that's it. I'm doing it for my conscience. Because I was elected representative at HS and those who chose me expect me to do so. Everyone on their conscience about how to handle himself today in this debate. But rest assured, what we're setting ourselves towards democracy, what we're setting ourselves up according to what we want Croatia to be, what we want to build. Okay, someone pulling on one side, someone pulling on the other side. But if we're not able to secure some kind of common direction for this country, we'll be guilty of failure. It won't be our fault, it won't be the Serbs, it won't be our fault, it won't be anyone's fault. It's gonna be our fault. And in order to be able to have a common direction, you should have reacted publicly from this pay phone to that one. Not because it was, which is a colleague of Škorić, and you are in the same party, but because it is simply not acceptable. Because these same institutions and these same democratic fuses without them, who knows what might happen tomorrow. We're watching now in the U.S. what it looks like when someone comes in and one by one, a democratic mechanism and a democratic fuse systematically disintegrates. I don't want it for my country. Because too many people have given their lives and built them into the foundations of this democracy. I mean, it's, uh, I'm really in danger right now, and it's already too late to get into that patriotic path, so I'm gonna stand here and leave it to my colleague, Klisovic, for the rest of this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109320	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Continued debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109321	Thank you, Vice President. Just two things, short. Minister, in the final debate, you called for a consensus. Yeah, we need a consensus. And we had him. And we had it, it was hardly forged in the Homeland War and entered in the Croatian Constitution. Consistently, more or less consistently implemented continuously since the Croatian state was restored. And then it was violated in a way that the government did not react quickly and resolutely with a clear message to the entire Croatian public. And this very consensus, in practical terms, has happened every time, which is what every Croatian government, or President Tudjman at the beginning of statehood, reacted quickly and resolutely to these phenomena. And that's the only way we're going to continue to have a consensus and that this issue won't be in public at all. The only way, Commissioner. It's made recommendations that are pretty vague. There can't be Ustasha greetings or signs allowed in some things, and others can't. It's contradictory in itself. So only when it can be allowed, if it can, is it, I don't know, in theater or in films that process period II. Holy shit. And then, of course, they want to figure out what was going on and they're using all the symbols that were used at the time. Otherwise it can't be. This commission is named by the Government's decision. The government's political decision. But not in a way that such a sensitive issue was being consulted by the parliamentary parties in this House, so each one could suggest a member of the committee, but the government randomly chose itself. Therefore, and this is not the way to establish a consensual solution or a consensual position. Therefore, the only consensus will be, it exists, I would say, the only thing missing is the fast and determined government according to this consensus, in accordance with what is entered in the Croatian Constitution. And that's all. Yes, the board was removed from Jasenovac, moved to Novska. That's not it. It's not that quick and determined action, the government's activity. And as I once again said, so the Ustasha symbols can't be cleaned from everything they meant and meant, just because someone put them on their sleeve and was a Croatian defender. We respect every Croatian defender and his sacrifice and his will to defend our country. But that doesn't mean that these insigns, these signs, you greet them with the right of citizenship in Croatia and that they are acceptable. They just didn't. Consensus, I think we do, but it needs to be carried out consistently. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109322	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I hope that after this constructive debate, at least one Croatian family decided to stay in Croatia, not leave Croatia. And I guess, if God does, we've at least contributed to that. I thank another proposer's representatives. I also thank the government's representatives for the reasons and reports, the respected Culture Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek and the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Mr Darko Neka, for the explanations and reports and for the answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. As far as I can tell, you're all ready to go home. Before that, one piece of information. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9.30 with a statement on the amendments. Have a nice night. Session interrupted at 12:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-29-0.u109323	Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the frequent abuse of the Ustasha greeting For home prepared, the applicants are 28 representatives of the SDP Club of Representatives, the debate is concluded. I am voting the Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the frequent abuse of the Ustasha greeting for a home ready, which the Government rejects. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were rejected by the Interpelation, 24 were ZA, 2 held by the U.S. and 75 against the vote. Therefore, the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been rejected for the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the frequent abuse of the Ustasha greeting for home-ready. Report on the mandate-immunity commission on the termination of the representative's term of office, Ivan Kovacic. I ask the president of the mandate-immunity commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report, please.
