ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78135	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely that we do not interfere with our activities, that is, the continuation of the plenary session, so that those who think to stay stay, and those who do not, I would ask you not to disturb others. Here you go, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today I asked for this break to talk about salaries in the Republic of Croatia, but also about the policies of the parties that are here in the Parliament. One of the key reasons why our people go abroad is their material condition. One of the key reasons why young people leave in Croatia are pay and political climate, and it is often heard that what our employers say is that our workers are not doing well, that when they go to Western Europe, that there are excellent workers, that in Croatia they are not doing as well as in Europe, that they are not worth enough and that their wages are enough for what they are doing and if they increase wages that they will then have to fire workers. I here, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, have a report that says very clearly where we are at wages and productivity. Croatia is second behind Poland by the big difference between productivity and wages. Productivity in Croatia grew 42% and wages grew only 11% and that money had to end somewhere. He didn't end up in workers' salaries, didn't end up where he was supposed to end up, obviously ended up in employers' pockets. And what the crisis has now been, which has shown that in Croatia we have lost a large number of jobs, now that there are jobs, then obviously employers have room to raise wages. The difference obviously ended in the pockets of employers and it is time for her to return to those to whom she was intended, which is to return to the salaries of the workers. How is it possible, under such conditions and so clear data, that both HDZ and SDP are now proposing laws that go hand in hand to employers? Well, here's one of the proposals SDP is likely to refer to the Parliament is to give employers even more through the contributions to hiring young people indefinitely. They would have hired them anyway without that incentive. And the third fact that concerns is the policy of Minister Pavic, who is unclear and is not seen in that policy at all how to raise wages. What Minister Pavic announced, and announced that the state would pay 3,000 traineeships in the public administration and that it would in this way affect the salary increase of workers has flossule and rubdown of the eyes to the public because it is obvious that neither Minister Pavić nor the government knows how to solve the problem of youth employment and it is obvious that the traineeship project has failed because the government did not bring the government close enough to the employers to make it acceptable to them. It is funny to listen to Minister Pavic who does not know how to come up with meaningful politics in Croatia and does not know how to solve the problem of youth employment in Croatia and what is most important, does not know how to solve this problem. He doesn't know how to solve the big difference between productivity and wages in Croatia. I note, we're second behind Poland in that big, big difference. If wage growth is constantly lagging behind productivity, our workers should finally feel it on their salaries. We in the Assembly must also go to legal initiatives to make workers in Croatia feel this productivity increase. Our workers are not the ones who are lazy; they are not the ones who do not know how to work, and they are not the ones who do not profit the employers. It is obvious by this, too, that in the Republic of Croatia, workers are those who carry productivity and employers no longer in the Republic have anything to say about productivity not following wages. It's time for us to have salaries in the Republic of Croatia that, root out with productivity, that's what employers said all the time, so here's the gentlemen of the employers' association, growing your productivity, it's time to raise workers' salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78137	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78138	Before we move on to the next debate, please welcome students and students and their teachers from Orahovica Elementary School, welcome. Now it's my dear colleague Miranda Mrsic's turn, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78139	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The public debate on the Health Protection Act is over and in recent days we have been able to hear Minister Kujundzic publicly proclaiming that despite the opposition of trade unions, NGOs, citizens, the law will be passed in the Assembly and that the privatisation of health care in Croatia will continue. A fair public consultation on the Health Protection Act is a farce. And the Government treats citizens as sheep who do not deserve any attention from the Government when it comes to their demands to provide them with what is guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, which is the right to health. Moreover, the government clearly uses the Hotmail affair so that this law is passed under the work of the public and that in Croatia the availability of public health is no longer as they wish. Thus, Minister Kujundzic and the government's conduct is shameful and deserves every conviction. We have already repeatedly warned that privatisation of health care and primary health care will lead to the treatment of only the rich and that those who do not have money will not have available public health and available treatment. Even a superficial view of the indicators we have in Croatia shows that primary health care has already been reduced, which has further affected the poor condition when we talk about citizens' health. In its analysis, the European Commission clearly tells us that the relative rate of poverty in Croatia is above the EU average, that we live 3 years less and clearly tell us that we have done nothing to reduce the incidence of smoking, heart cancer and claim that in this part of the crime is exactly what Minister Kujundzic wants to privatise in primary health care that is well paid and above the European average, but does not assume the role of coordinators when it comes to caring for chronic and palitative patients. Mr. Minister, Croatians, Croatian citizens are dying of cardio vascular diseases and cancer, and instead of privatizing, you are playing with the system, it is up to you to move into what you must start, which is a health system reform. And when we talk about the incidence of cancer and what I also want to say from this pay phone, Minister Kujudzic did nothing to improve the prevention and treatment of cancer in Croatia. In Croatia, according to the latest data, in 2015, 1412 people died of cancer, meaning one town the size of Rovinj. And it went public without some big echo, as part of some daily statistics. To say that Croatia is not a country where it should die of cancer is not something new, but in Croatia more is dying of cancer than it is in Western countries. Croatia has a resolution on malignant tumours, which was adopted in 2009 afterwards, was to adopt a national programme against cancer, there the programme was not adopted, that is, what is crucial, that citizens in Croatia can have equal health care and equivalent treatment, the level of treatment of cancer patients. Another thing that has happened these days is the decision of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which has decided that the latest medicines can only be used code in clinics without being able to be used in county hospitals. I note, I suppose the minister knows that we have very good oncology suits in Pula, Sibenik, Zadar, Dubrovnik, Čakovec and that these are places where therapy can be applied and that citizens from these cities are second-class citizens. The top of social insensitivity and empathy statements by the minister, which I quote, patients from smaller places, are equally available, only in a more unfavourable position, if you have to drive 100 km to get, e ministers, to get chemotherapy, I would let you drive 100 km home and a second day 100 km back, to throw up and have nausea. Where's your sensitivity, Minister? Change that HZZO decision. Ministers Kujundzic too, except that he privatises health care and does it inaccessible, now he is doing the difference between patients and what I have to say and I want to send a message to the minister, the minister is equally affected by those in Zagreb and Zadar, and they need to have an equal level of treatment, leave the privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78140	Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, we continue our work in the morning. As every Wednesday, we have a free speech first, but first, on behalf of all of us, I will congratulate our football team and menu Dalic on the excellent games, placed in the eighth of the finals and wish them a lot more success and it seems to me that four more wins we need. So you guys good luck. . Now let's go... [[Applause.]] Here are my colleagues, Strenja-Linić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78141	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute recess to consult. The doctor's protest at Mark's Square is in preparation, and I'm curious as to why the government is today, it's actually clear why the government called its session at 8:00 today to avoid hearing what doctors have to say, which is why doctors who have been deceived by Minister Kujundzic This is today's topic why Plenkovic [[Intruder President: Fellow Strenja-Linić, so, no, no, you can't, not like this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78142	My colleagues Strenja-Linić receive your first warning
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78143	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78144	Comrade Grmoi, colleagues from MOST, I beg you, so you're breaking up, you can't get a break, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78145	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78146	My colleagues Strenja-Linić now receive a second warning and today you can no longer speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78147	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78148	So you speak wherever you want, you have a room where you can hold press conferences and please stop doing a circus here. You can't have a break. Let's get to work. The first in line for free speech is a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, taking a stand as an independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78149	Dear Mr. President, today in the government, a bill on health care has been passed and although former Health Minister Andrija Hebrang and current Minister Milan Kujundzic are mostly meeting in court and talking about who he said they have something in common with them, which is a vision of health care in Croatia. The first one, more than 20 years ago, buried the first privatisation shovel in the break-up of primary health care, and the second one went to throw the last lump of land at what was good in Croatia for years, which is public good, which is something that citizens need, rather than having a small-door privatisation. Instead of serious analysis and convincing figures, we testify to the offers of a flat-rate Health Protection Act that tries to privatise primary health care at a time when even richer countries than Croatia are working on establishing health homes so that health care is not more accessible, more efficient and ultimately more quality. The hand and hat in Croatia are shared abroad and argues that privatisation is the only way out. Similarly, it is likely to happen in the new Mandatory Health Insurance Act. In order to achieve this, a small door is trying to explain to citizens that there is no other way but to increase their allocations for healthcare, which, with a more expensive insurance policy, the minister has already announced a price of 100 or 200 euros. In fact, some on the right of this assembly would give private policy insurance providers an obligation for all citizens and thus introduce "competitiveness". Health care did not mix up even at its own door and resolved the fact that part of the concessionary’s doctor in primary health care, so the privateer pays only the minimum amount of contributions, and the truth is that their income is significantly higher than the doctors employed in health care homes for which employers pay full amounts. Do concessionaries cheat on their country, cheat on the state budget from which they receive funds for their work? What do you say about the various managers employed in foreign companies who also pay minimum for their health? The minister says that the rich may be able to pay extra insurance and thus have a better health care service, it's actually a very interesting idea because the one who pays mandatory insurance by law, in the full amount of his salary, will actually be cut off badly. In total, they will pay more than the richer registered to a minimumer with an additional insurance policy and they will have less rights. Take the poor and give the rich, all under... Save Croatian Health, Superhik Health Reform Minister Kujundzic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's going to bring us privatisation because what's going to happen on Mark's square, what's happening now that we have a white strike, where it's obvious that the privates in the health care department think they can put those who pay for a favor in front of the waiting room. And that is gentlemen, what awaits us if we privatise health care in Croatia, what is happening these days with a white strike in primary health care. That privatisation in public health is not the way to go, shows opportunities in neighbouring Slovenia. They even go towards abolishing the primary health care concessions, or privateer, because they spend too much and give little. All this says how important it is before trying to get your hands in the public's pocket, that the system's competent do much more accurate and more accurate calculation not to prove that the other exit is missing. I have nothing against private health, but it must be separated from the public and the doctors of family medicine who strike about it, they must be aware because public health is one of the foundations of the social state and it is the minister's task to protect and protect it. With the lack of solidarity in the system, those who have with those who are sick and who do not have are struck by the foundations of the social state, hit the foundations of Croatia and health becomes a privilege of the rich. That's why I think it should be said not to privatise health care in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u78150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80308	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, good afternoon. We continue with the work of the plenary session with: - Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading, P.Z. No. 317. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Law and the competent Committee on Agriculture. I call upon the representative of the motionor, State Secretary, Mr. Tugomir Majdak to explain the bill to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80309	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly and the Members of Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber adopted by the Government at its session on 16 March 2018, and as a proposer points to first reading in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber was established in 2009 by the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in order to promote the protection of the interest of farmers from the Republic of Croatia at national and international level. The special role of the chamber is seen through representation of farmers from the Republic of Croatia in international associations of farmers, and in particular of roof interest associations at European Union level. Today, the Chamber is a full member of the largest European Association of Agricultural Producers Copa-cogec, which was named in 2015 by the main organisation of agricultural producers at EU level, which gives the opportunity to highlight the specificities of Croatian agricultural producers through the unique representation of the interests of the entire European agricultural sector in front of the European Commission and other EU institutions by this organisation. The special importance of the chamber in representing these interests is reflected through its representativeness in the number of members compared to the total number of farmers in our country. The establishment of a chamber in 2009 required membership for all farmers enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings. However, by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in 2012 and by introducing voluntary membership, there was a significant drop in the membership of the Chamber. Today, the chamber gathers less than 0.6% of farmers who are being led in the same name register in our country, questioning the possibility of carrying out all the tasks that have been legally assigned to it and, above all, its primary and most important tasks relating to the collection of unique positions of farmers, especially those that operate in the organisational form of family holdings and which are with a stake of almost 97% in the register of farmers, the dominant organisational group of farmers in our country. Advocacy of the interest of farmers, in particular of the CAPs towards institutions and state bodies in the Republic of Croatia, has been carried out and is still largely implemented through their voluntary association with the membership of one of the many interested associations operating today in the Republic of Croatia around 1130. These associations, unfortunately, promote unequal attitudes and are not able to capture all agricultural producers as such, and as such cannot be of quality interest to represent Croatian farmers in international associations, but also to be a partner to the restoring ministry and relevant institutions, and especially at the level of EU roof and interest associations. Although that is what farmers expect and pay for their financial obligations arising from this membership. The last member is also affected by this situation by the mistrust of association which we can say has an impact on today's status of the chamber in which voluntary membership is currently prescribed. The law on the Croatian agricultural chamber regulates the status, structure, jobs, tasks and membership and way of financing the chamber. The aim of the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is to create a legal framework that would enable the strengthening of the role of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as the roof institutions of all farmers, especially those in the organisational form of the CAP entered in the register of farmers and all legal forms of association of farmers... According to specific regulations, the chamber will fulfil the primary and most important tasks mentioned, but also other tasks and tasks assigned to it by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through the work of the chamber, farmers will also participate in the work of councils, commissions and other permanent and occasional bodies, and will thus actively participate in the creation of a agricultural policy at national and international level. Also in co-operation with similar organisations of other Member States and at European level, especially the upcoming negotiations on reform of the EU's common agricultural policy. This law therefore, i.e. the future credibility of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the re-negotiation of membership, which will cover all agricultural producers who are beneficiaries of the support which, at least one basis, is achieved from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund or the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In front of the mandatory, voluntary and honorary membership shall be introduced for those farmers who are not beneficiaries of those support or other natural or legal persons who can contribute to successful business, business and tasks entrusted to the chambers of the laws. The proposed draft proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, i.e. to the applicable law, summarises the activities of the Chamber, and introduces provisions on promoting the representation of members' interests at the national, or international levels, or coordination of activities of the Association, except from the field of agriculture and associations mainly engaged in rural development, organisation, co-organisation, consultation on social, legal, tax issues for the purposes of membership and media promotion of the work of the Chamber, its members from all aspects of agricultural activity. The law also provides for the level of membership of up to 6 kn per month, i.e. 72 kuna per year, and allows the chamber assembly to decide independently on the level of membership that must not exceed the prescribed amount or make a decision on the release of the obligation to pay a membership fee for individual members in exceptional situations. In this way, funds will be raised necessary for the financing of the chamber and without a significant burden on each member in order to meet the legal requirements and the financial obligations that membership brings to other associations at national and international level. By paying membership fees on this amount in relation to the number of members, the chamber will have the necessary means to fulfil its founding tasks and the additional farmer as a member of the chamber will have a unique opportunity to participate in the creation of measures and policies of particular interest for his activity in the way that interested organisations of a similar type are already carrying out in and outside our country. For this reason, membership should not be regarded as a cost that will burden the farmer, but rather as an investment through which he will be able to influence the work of the chamber for his own good. By proposing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, we will also allow Croatian farmers a strong organisation that will represent their interests in the country and abroad, modelled by similar quality organisations such as. France, Austria, or other EU members, because only so joined farmers will be able to express their views and achieve the right of partnership before the Croatian and EU institutions, particularly in the coming period of the National Strategy for Agriculture and negotiations on the creation of a new EU common agricultural policy in 2021-2027. The chamber assembly, statutes and other acts of the need to operate the chamber must comply with the provisions of this law within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Finally, the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 provides for the financing of a chamber of 300,000 kuna in the current year to ensure its smooth work until the entry into force of this law since the chamber will be financed exclusively from its own resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80310	I thank the Secretary of State. Before continuing, I welcome the gallery of the participants and participants of the Political Academy of Foundation of the Croatian National Testament. We have a few replicas, the first to appear for the replica is the respected colleague Tomislav Panenic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80311	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Article 21 of the proposed law has been introduced, imposing that, once a year for the current year, they will be accounting and suspending the paying agencies of the specified membership fee and paying on the chamber's account. I personally believe that this is a serious precedent in the charge where other chambers and all other chamber associations will be able to call on the same model because they will all demand the same right, which is that through their institutions the state suspends and imposes the obligation of payment at the time when it corresponds to the state or when it corresponds to the chamber and not to the individual member of the chamber. I believe that this proposal could certainly in the future violate the obligations that many entrepreneurs are planning, and this too in agriculture. So I would ask once again here to consider this proposal to leave it to farmers to decide when to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80312	I thank my colleague Panenic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80313	Dear Secretary of State, there's been talk all the time about reforms, there's talk about reform, agrarian reform, agricultural reform, and those reforms that come before us, it's that you impose additional pressure on our farmers, and you represent it as something good. So you have so much cheek to come here before us and tell us that the additional imposition of our farmers is something that's good. But the minister does not have the courage, the minister who presented himself as a great fighter for the Croatian village, for the progress of Croatian agriculture, does not have the courage to come here and say that the additional imposition of our farmers is something good. avoids constantly coming here before the Croatian Parliament. There are no more burdens on Croatian farmers, no more pressure on Croatian entrepreneurs, no more destruction of Croatian villages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80314	I thank Mr. Grumoja for the replica. This is good for waking up a little bit in the morning, raising your tone even though we have a sound to hear well. But here we go, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80315	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretaries, the chamber should protect farmers, however, more protected farmers' associations or farmers themselves from governments and policies that are bad and the chamber is a catch factory where it will now increase from 1,000 members to more than 100,000. Each OPG will have to pay to a chamber that is incriminating and which is essentially just an extended arm of the government, i.e. Because the minister won't explain it, he'll have to pay every O.P.G. like Belje. Well, at least it's embarrassing, this is a hack. Well, during the Ottoman Empire, such a harasser wasn't in percentages towards the peasant, anyway, the village died out. And the rest of the remains, you will now destroy the farmers. A harbinger of unremembered proportions, secretary. Call a small minister to explain this chamber and this robbery of Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80316	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80317	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, we see that now the membership in the chamber is mandatory for all farmers who are beneficiaries of the support, there has been a word of support from the state budget, the European Fund for Rural Development, so it is literally imposed membership, and now we see a way of financing the chamber where the malts do not have to be allocated to a maximum of 6 kuna per month, 6 kuna per month will be set aside by someone who has a million, 2 million kunas of support, the same will be allocated by those poor farmer who barely achieves 15 thousand euros for the purchase of machinery and the rest of which I believe is extremely indeterminate, we have not brought clear distinctions on how much support they will receive, or how much membership they will be paid by crafts, companies, how small OPGs, all the same, whether they get support with 2 million kunas, whether they get support from a thousand kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80318	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Pranic. Answer, Secretary of State, Mr. Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me explain. So, this bill defines mandatory membership for all state support users, i.e. users, which means receiving support from two funds in a way that the chamber is paid by members and at a level of up to 6 kuna. This is a total of 72 kuna per year for membership in the Croatian agricultural chamber that is needed for Croatian agriculture, means for Croatian farmers to be a credible partner to the Ministry and other institutions, for the Ministry to receive quality proposals, uniform proposals, not as so far as we get meaning, unequal and individual proposals by farmers in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80320	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80321	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with my associates, I'm going to say something that may not be polite, but it is, you signed the law. You signed the 2009 Act. It is the same law only now returns back here to the Croatian Parliament, something of course a little neat, now the Chamber is no longer established, it exists, but I wonder why it is because in the current current law it is not, why it has returned to art. 20 for funding from the state budget? It means the Chamber is financed from the state budget. If membership is mandatory, what's the point? Can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80322	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80323	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, of course Croatian agriculture also needs the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and that no law in the Republic of Croatia is passed without the attitude of agricultural producers. This model where there have been hundreds of associations and where agricultural producers have been divided has led to the fact that 20 thousand fewer OPGs in the register, that we have a decline in agricultural production, that we have increased imports and that we do not have a strategy of agricultural production and therefore the Chamber should be as strong as in Bavaria and then be our agricultural producer motivated to be a member and the Chamber. In view of the relationship so far with the Chamber, it has not been able to produce better results for the OPGs, and especially as you have shown, and by example, 300 thousand kuna in the budget for this year is not enough to pay membership fees in the European Association of Agricultural Producers, i.e. the Chamber. Why didn't you provide at least 500 thousand kuna to pay membership fees, not even to pay for membership fees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80324	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80325	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, Secretary of State, I'm glad to talk to you again about the Agricultural Chamber after it went down, how it went. Unfortunately, 1130 organizations that work in agriculture today always belong to some political group and then we always have some kind of war situation as well as to the political scene between these agricultural associations that serve the wrong things, except to help farmers to prosper. Payment of the Chamber, you said it would affect, any farmer can thus influence the work of the Chamber. I don't think it's going to be that way because we know how it always works, but I think it should be that paying agency that's finally gonna come under the pressure of that Chamber, that finally we as producers know how much support we need to get because today we're just lost, and what we're getting in the report isn't in the account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80326	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you said, the Croatian agricultural chamber is a roof organisation of farmers. In what and for what? We didn't hear you, don't say anything about the high VAT on the repromatter, because of the high interest rates that kill farmers, against the traffickers and smugglers. You say, pay the peasants, pay 72 kunas so you can participate in the creation of agricultural policy. That's the irony you send to farmers. Where are you, when you staged a protest, when you sided with a farmer? So this is one political clientelem, and we don't really need such associations. I got an e-mail from Slavonski Brod the other day. It says man, yogurt is sold for one kuna, a liter of milk for 4.5 kuna. So, they kill small farmers. Start an initiative towards the Competition Protection Agency. That's your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80328	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80329	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I have a specific question. Namely, in Art. 9th writes, the authorities of the chamber are the assembly of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the Management Board of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and the President of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. I'm particularly interested in which one of them is going to be a professional? Who will receive the wages and who will receive certain fees? Namely, here, I'm a little skeptical about it. In practice, we know what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has become, the private ATM of Mr Vidosevic, which the Croatian state is still suing and how it will turn out we do not know. However, it is frustrating for all Croatian citizens, this is not really any provocation but to see in fact, in the beginning, do you know how much this Croatian agricultural chamber will cost our farmers and who will be a professional in that, and do you have any estimate of how much it will cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80330	I thank my colleague Preleco. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80331	My dear secretary, I'm listening to you this morning. I don't know, I'm confused here. What's your mission? Is your mission advisory, active, symbolic, like our unions, you have unions I see nothing do, just whine and determine the state. What about the digitalization of the earth, if you have the data, you can tell me today, how digitized that land is, that you can work on it. And secondly, it was taken away from people after '45. That. That's where one peasant party sits, never mentioned the word collectiveization. If a man couldn't buy a tractor, a used tractor to the '60s. Sir, what are we talking about? We're putting the smoke curtains down to the other one here. What are we talking about here? Bring the Germans back, which are open there Fox Deutchere, we will make agriculture, not these Balkan critters who cite these tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80332	I would like to thank my colleague Glasnović, we are moving on to the next line, dear colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80333	I thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, do you feel that the determination of equal membership amounts to 6 kn, for all equally, so a fair and just solution? Have you thought about the modality, that the amount of membership fee is just being determined against the amounts of support received?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80334	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Jackov. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80335	Thank you very much. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discusses at the 42nd session of the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that since the amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber since 2012, membership in the Chamber is not mandatory, so the chamber currently has only about 1000 members, and the mandatory membership would relate to all those enrolled in the register of farmers at the time of the first recorded payment of support from the state budget or also the European Guarantee Fund in the agriculture of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which would be accounted for by the Payments Agency. In particular, the maximum amount of membership fee, in accordance with the draft law, must not exceed 72 kn and will be paid to the same chamber through the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development, following the coordination of the statues and other acts of the Chamber. The debate highlights a number of opposing opinions, related to mandatory membership and the obligation to pay membership, and because of the different size of agricultural holdings, the proposed need to prescribe different amounts of membership fees. These could be linked to the level of the right to support or standards, the economic outcome of the economy. It was also pointed out that the law did not need to prescribe the amount of membership fee, but that, taking into account the work of other chambers in the Republic of Croatia, it was necessary to prescribe the statute of the chamber. The proposal for a law requires a clearer standard of the criteria of exemption from payment of membership fees. The need to raise the quality of the chamber’s work and speed up the flow of information, as well as the importance of adopting the chamber’s action plan. Article 19 of the Law provides the obligations of the annual work programme, the annual financial plan and the annual report on the work of the chamber, to the Ministry of Agriculture, to the previous opinion. And it has been warned that the opinion on it should be brought by the Chamber's assembly, otherwise it is about a kind of political Pristina on the chamber. In addition to Article 20 of the proposed funds to be provided for the work of the chamber, it is pointed out that there was no need to indicate the resources from the state budget because the adoption of an acne on the Agricultural Chamber and the coordination of the assets will be ensured from membership, i.e. by means of an acne on its own activity. Furthermore, it was warned that the draft law did not provide for a provision for an ex post assessment of the impact of law enforcement, which would be an integral part of the text addressed with e-consultation. An inquiry was also asked about the reasons why the bill did not require the obligation and deadline for the conduct of elections for the Croatian agricultural chamber bodies, and in particular taking into account that the number of members of the chamber, by implementing the law, would increase by nearly 100,000. Well, the current bodies of the chamber won't be representative. A question has also been asked about the territorial action of the chamber and personnel capacity and has been warned about the need for a stronger positioning of the chamber and an effective response to the demands of the chamber members. The proposer pointed out as a draft draft law on Croatia's agricultural chamber in line with the stakeholders of the agricultural sector, and only after that... e-consultation, also alleged that each member of the chamber will have one vote, and therefore the same amount of membership fee for all chambers is determined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The 20th representative pointed out that the funds that the chamber will implement from the projects were involved. The applicant accepted the proposal to extend the provisions of the proposal, the Law on the Mandatory Implementation of Isors for the Authorities of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the regulation of the deadline within which it is necessary to implement it. A representative of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture points out and points out that the chamber has so far operated through county chambers, while sewing the new statutes will set criteria for the territorial operation of the chamber, so there is a possibility that the offices of the chamber will be distributed according to the regional principle. Liberation and payment of membership fees will be prescribed by the chamber statute, and funds collected from membership fees will also serve to increase the media visibility of the chamber. After the debate was held, most votes 6 for, 2 abstentions suggested that the proposal be accepted and the comments and proposals presented in the debate be presented to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80336	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. I'm opening a debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80337	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so we became aware that the focus of the public, especially this part of the public interested in agriculture, is not now on this law. This law is important, but surely the focus isn't. The focus seems to me to be on the Agricultural Land Act in Article 30, paragraph 2, according to which units of local self-government may limit the amount of land that can be leased to a particular natural or legal person. And it is a key problem or a key thing for the survival of Croatian villages at the moment. Today, however, we are discussing the Agricultural Chamber Act, but for the public's sake, we need to stress that there would be no interference, and we have adopted the Agronomic Chamber Act in this House. From what I've seen, she started acting, I hope she'll live. Here, the legislative proposal also mentions cooperation with that body, which is extremely important for the development or respect of the opinion of the profession in agriculture. This law if we go a little bit in the history of 2009 was first passed by the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, then it was one, as the media at the time claimed a political decision since the then HSS partner in the government decided that it would no longer be, will no longer have a farm resort in its jurisdiction for the simple reason that at that time there were enough, besides today are problems but there were a lot of expressed problems in agriculture and as I recall then the minister was Mr Pankretic and said he did not want to promise people anything that could not be fulfilled. Then the Ministry of Agriculture took over HDZ and a agricultural chamber was established, the media claimed, not me, the media claimed it was actually a concession to HSS that HSS had a certain interest, a certain actual impact on agriculture. The Chamber lived until 2012 when the Law on the termination of compulsory membership in the Chamber was adopted and the agricultural advisory service which was included under the skirts in 2010 was singled out to say so by the chambers. At the time of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service. And now constantly, in public, a ball is being transferred which solution is better, the first solution to mandatory membership was attacked, a later attack was made on a solution prescribed by a voluntary membership. Because when you have mandatory membership you really de facto impose on agricultural economies. There's no choice. So someone becomes a member of the chamber, he has the right to be elected and elected, but he has no right to decide whether to be a member. So if he gets the incentive, he has to be a member. And with the 2009 decision, the law paid for membership in the chamber according to the model of a European country with a chamber contribution, which was I think half of the incentives. And so the bigger ones paid more and the smaller ones, the smaller ones said, "Those who got less support, they paid less." This proposal defines 6 kuna per month for all farmers, it is 72 kuna per year. Now we can ask ourselves what farmers can expect from 6 kuna a month, what kind of service can I get back? Of course there's a game of large numbers here, so we say if they're over 100,000, if they're paying 72 kuna a year, that's about 7 million kuna. And of course here's the item, I asked the secretary of state, and the state budget that would most likely have to jump in if this job wanted to work seriously. If we are to achieve that HPK is modeled in the French Chamber, then we will need a lot more effort and effort. Doesn't mean that Croatian agriculture has no tradition, has a tradition. But it's been said many times here, and I think that's what the secretary of state said in his explanation that they don't have people trusting in association. When you look at cooperatives as a form of economic association to organise production, organising a market performance how much in the Republic of Croatia it is a difficult problem. I am true, and I personally resented it then and the promoter, the Government of the Republic of Croatia for not adopting the amendment when I proposed that it be possible, to put the association of the OPG into law as one important way of performing the OPGs especially on the market and protecting their position on the market and what we saw in the case of complex situations around Agrokor companies where suppliers, small suppliers could very well have suffered. Let's go now, let's list a few of these things, I think my colleague Panenic touched them, there were words about them on the board, and I hope the Proposer will adopt those remarks. So membership increases from a thousand members to 100,000 members, elections should be held. It is a democratic principle, the law here needs to be specified by when elections will be held in the agricultural chamber because a large number of members who have the right to vote are coming and should not make it difficult to do so. What we have noticed so far in the work of the chamber, which is one of the tasks of the chamber to represent the interests of farmers and in the phase of the preparation of legislative proposals to the government. We really have to figure it out when the chamber confronts the government? Do any of you know when the chamber said clearly this can't happen? Not in the sense that it creates with confrontation that the chamber is permanent, because it is not its role to be in conflict with the government but to represent the interests of farmers. What I find very questionable is how to actually represent the interests of this number of farmers. We're talking about the association now, we're talking about their association that, they don't go to that association voluntarily, let's just ignore it. Let's just say if we all came in and we all volunteered how to represent the interests of all of them? I think the government would have done a lot more and must have done it in spite of the existence of the chamber, to encourage the association of farmers to their some kind of ceva association, such as the association of fruit farmers, cattlemen. It means yes, because these associations know the specific demands and problems of farmers on the ground. If we remember and remember when I was a kid I liked to watch those Western, cowboy movies as we called them, there was always a conflict between warlords and cattlemen, for example. You have some groups today that will be difficult to reconcile and you say, the promoter says the chamber will coordinate their interests. It's, it's, you know, in practice it can be questionable because the finger always points to the others if they get more, if they get the advantage. But we hope that the chamber will succeed what I see most, and what I see as the most important meaning of this law, and this is the performance of Croatian farmers towards the EU market, and this HPK if I do, if the Croatian farmers on that large market protect themselves so that I can express myself, if by example here in the French chamber, we just can't measure, of course, our winemakers can't compete with the tradition of French winemakers who have and who have already made these mechanisms. But if the chamber helps even before this debate I talked to my colleague Hrga, if it helps to encourage people to join together, then we'll do a lot of things, even if this is a mandatory way. Is the solution of six kunas a month a good solution? I'm not sure she's okay. Maybe it's better if it's mandatory, if it's taken out of the incentive to be some proportional amount like this again, we can say that it's a great deal of pay equal to a small OPG as it pays and a large agricultural company. Will the chamber work better now with more money, so far it's had a thousand members there's less money? And that's questionable. If you look at all the tasks that the chamber has, that wouldn't be the folk we wanted so much, we started a lot, so we didn't do anything. I think that the chamber must focus on several more important parameters to achieve them because what is the task of the chamber is to coordinate and associations that exist, associations of agricultural producers, although each member is an individual member, but the chamber must be in contact with the associations, and that is ultimately her task, and here I think that the chamber can do a lot. But what's happened to us now is that a paradox of the association is against this kind of chamber formation, if I've seen it well from the press. The associations were and I read it in the press, all associations were against establishing mandatory membership in the chamber. That's not a good thing. So we're going into the process, to say negotiation, cooperation, and the associations are against it. At this point, the ministry needs to do much more because I am stressing now, the secretary of state often digs up on you this breaking. We're not just criticizing criticism, nor have you delivered this law here just to push through the chamber now. We all work on the same job, so we make this law better and eventually Croatian agriculture is better, Croatian agriculture is not in a good apartment. I'm going to point that out again, it hurts me like a man in Slavonia, we're importing buns, so it's not normal, it's not a good state of Croatian agriculture. Kolega Panenic said in his presentation on behalf of the board and I see it as one of the failures, there must be a county chamber, it must not happen to wipe out the county chambers. We don't, we talk when we talk about regions we create a false illusion, a fake picture of Croatia. There are no regions in Croatia, formally there are no regions. We're talking project Slavonia and Baranja, what is it? There are counties, there are cities, there are municipalities they are project holders, the region no. That's why in this part, let's get them back to the county. And what might be an observation is little, not funny, but it's banal, but it tells us a little bit that we need to get serious, we need to reform those reforms, I said in the replica you signed the 2009 law, so it's said that the chamber will have a seal. So let's really solve it once more with that seal, a little bit has already become a question that we can't solve, a seal, how are we going to solve serious professional reforms. I hope that these remarks that we have made at the end and fellow Panenić, which are remarks and committees that have in some way greater weight and we, which I and my colleagues from the Most, hope that you will respect them and that by the second reading we will have a better bill and that this bill will achieve or this law achieve its purpose, which is to improve agricultural production, better performance of our farmers on the market and ultimately protect our farmers from all the challenges that are ahead of them because if there is a saying that time is money, believe in agriculture and in the full width of that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80338	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague, Sagar. You have raised a replica of your colleague Babić to present the club's representatives with no replicas. Okay, thank you very much. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko HRg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. My debate on behalf of the HDS Club, HSLS, HDSSB will be slightly different from the previous debate of counterpart Sagar. 100 to 105 thousand users of support are in Croatia from 160 to 15,000 of the total agricultural producers that are registered. A chamber like a chamber something that was founded in '99. I believe that it was a good move and that it was a good step, a good step to get a roof organisation of agricultural producers, primarily of the OPGs, which is 97% in these 100,000. Unfortunately, in 2012, until even the chamber began to function, a practical blow came to the same chamber, it was literally destroyed, it was left to vegetate at all without any more properties and functions. As a result, a number of organisations in agricultural production that have been established in different ways and have presented their demands in different ways. For many years I have also been a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the Croatian Parliament and I have had the opportunity to see dozens of times thematic sessions, representatives of committees perform, and in 2012 it may have been very appropriate for someone, perhaps it was necessary to break down a roof institution that should gather and protect the interests of all agricultural producers and destroy this system in a way that farmers can no longer organize themselves at all. And today we have a system like that. I claim and personally think it is a good part, one good reason why it is that the Croatian agricultural chamber has been destroyed. In the end, this period is the period of 2012 and until 2015 the period of systematic destruction is slightly stronger in the intensity of Croatia's agriculture by the restoring, then the ministry and the government's policy, to whom wrongly, whose right. Today we have a third law in front of us regarding Croatian agriculture, we know that the Law on Agricultural Land is new, that the Law on OPGs has been passed. We are now discussing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It is these three laws that should finally frame that economic activity in Croatia and give it a certain direction. Croatia's agricultural chamber as a roof organisation of agricultural producers will certainly be a partner tomorrow at a stronger intensity of the Ministry of Agriculture, but will, of course, be an opponent in the area where it will seek to protect the interests of farmers. This does not mean that associations will not continue to exist, that it will not work, that people will not be able to join the border, but in any case from European experiences, I believe from world experiences that it is definitely necessary to have a Croatian agricultural chamber and in a way that includes as many agricultural producers as possible. Voluntaryness in Croatia, does anyone really think that there would be a voluntary inclusion of agricultural producers in Croatia's agricultural chamber? Well, that's what we had now. And what happened? Nothing. The chamber was cut into funds, the membership fee was abolished, the additional funds were not secured, but was left on a straw to survive as a foll there is a Croatian agricultural chamber. That's why this law is acceptable to us at the club and we, of course, support it. When the chamber comes back to life and the chamber starts working harder, let it be the one to suggest some improvements to the Agricultural Chamber Act, why not? Let those people who will be members be those who will propose it, who will give better solutions. There's no reason for him not to accept them as such. There have been a lot of speeches and today already mentioned here, membership fees, mandatory membership fees, 6 kn per month for all those who receive direct support from any source. Somewhere around three acres of land has my father's friends, getting people somewhere around 6,000 pounds of support. So they're not dealing exclusively with agriculture, they're getting about $6,000 in support of about 3 acres of land, I'm really asking a question, does anyone think that the amount of 72k is actually money that's going to put that economy at risk? Do we really think that 72 kunas will put you at risk by about 3 acres of land's support? I don't think so. And I am convinced that this is the only way to start agricultural producers grouping, to start organizing them. Because without the organisation of agricultural producers they will never make it to the market. And that's what I was talking about with the Law on Agricultural Land, that's what I was talking about with the Law on OPGs where I'm sorry, and I'm also sorry that the OPG Law does not stress the need for association with certain stimulation, incentives, so that people can perform together on the market and, of course, in the organisation, production, it will have to come to this. And we're going to have to settle this legally again because people aren't going to be able to do it on their own. There were speeches and questions here about whether it's okay that membership is the same for the smallest and the biggest? But the voice is the voice in the chamber. Each member has the same rights, has the same voice in the chamber, in the decision-making, in the selection. There were speeches about whether it would be good, should you specifically say how many management bodies of the chamber would have OPGs, how many legal persons, companies, crafts? Realizing the O.P.G.s have the domination. If people go into the chamber elections, if they get involved, there are simply opgs that are as dominant in their 97% as there are that they can dictate agriculture policy in the Republic of Croatia. That's what this law allows them to do. Will they consume it or not? That's their thing, that's their choice, that's what we can't make them do. The financing of the chamber, there was the same talk here about why funding from the state budget is now planned? Because the chamber is such that the simple amount of membership fees will not be enough, I wish and believe that it will come into the future, that the chamber will fit, strengthen, do good things for its members, and that it will certainly need some financial support to carry out all these jobs. And it's good that it's planned, because if we want to help agriculture then we have to do this and we don't have to leave the chamber alone to be the self-financed one, solve all the problems, if we want to emphasize agricultural production as one of the strategic economic branches of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it should be. I don't think we should, I don't think we should present her like that because we're prone to such demagogue acts and we tend to make drama of something where there's no drama ourselves. And that is why, with all the seriousness and situation in agriculture and otherwise in the Croatian state, I think it is good that the law returns in good deed to the likeness of '99. in the year, it is good to undo the evil of the 2012 law and finally start to act organised in organised production in Croatia at the OPGs and on all agricultural holdings. For this reason, I repeat, our club supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80340	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrgo. The next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80341	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is an important and important institution for farmers who are tasked with uniting the views of all agricultural associations and organisations and, as such, representing the Croatian government, the Croatian public and the EU. I'm sorry we don't have a chance to replicate between clubs anymore because I've already had a need to replicate a few times because it's actually about the most interesting people in the Parliament who differ on behalf of the clubs, so I'm a little sorry. This new bill mainly regulates the way in which the HPK is financed through membership, which is good because of its independence as well as the mandatory membership of the chamber of all the beneficiaries of the support. We don't all agree here, but I think that's the case, so I'll tell you why later. The legal framework related to... Jobs of the chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2009 law, which established the chamber, prescribed mandatory membership for all legal and natural persons registered in the register of agricultural holdings. With subsequent amendments to the 2012 law, membership has become voluntary and the number of members has dropped drastically. So in 2012, we de facto put HPK under the supervision of the ministry, or the Secretary-General. Only membership reacted to this in a way that brought down to only 1,000 members. We now think there will be 105,000. I think you're clear on what this was all about. As the representativeness of such membership and such a chamber could be, someone asked, why they were not stronger, why they were no longer imposed, why they were not stronger towards associations, precisely because they were weak, had little membership, depended on the minister and the minister imposed their opinion on them, they had to speak to them what the minister told them. The way in which the chamber was financed was based on the budget funds that were 300, 500 000 kuna, how much they were, and they had to cover themselves with it. We got information yesterday that only the COPA-cogec membership would be about a million kunas in the future, so they didn't have enough funds to pay for membership, I don't have to talk, my colleague Bulj went out and a colleague of the Grmoi who was here to roar about how this law would put on some parafiscal charge again, he doesn't know that he can't lobby, let alone in Europe for our interests without any kuna. Such a chamber today brings together all 1,000 members, only 0.6% of farmers, and it certainly does not have a representative position of Croatian farmers, let alone a single opinion and interests of the majority. So that's where we need to know now when we're discussing this law whether we want the independence of the chamber or whether we want dependence on the government, on the budgets or the minister. Farmers registered as craftsmen or a company have an obligation to membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And the dominant group of farmers has not been adequately covered by membership in any chamber so far. I have this need to comment and the previous ones indicate whether and why everyone has the same membership fee. First, for the reason that the big one would always vote the little ones. I think it's much better for the OPGs. On the other hand, if large companies and d.o.o. are obliged to be either members of the HGK or of the HOK, this would be a double obligation. It is important to note that mandatory membership in the chamber implies a cost of 6 kuna. So we're talking about six kunas a month. If we're saying it's a parafiscal imposition, then we can call it that, but it's 72 kuna a year a serious agricultural economy and a company, it shouldn't take too much expense compared to what's expected back. So the payment obligation would have some 105 000 organisational forms of farmers that would raise some 7.5 million kuna, that amount would be enough for the smooth work but also for the payment of membership fees of international institutions such as COPA-cogec and others. So we've already said that it's going to cost us the association, that membership in the COPA-cogec some million kunas but also the promotion of all other activities provided for by this Act, besides all organizations, societies, clubs, everyone has and all the chambers have their membership fees. It's normal. It's normal to have a Chamber of Agriculture. Such a way of collecting funds for work through membership fees, that is one moment, the second moment is donations, sponsorship through their own activities, and partly from the state budget. Yeah, that's where it's supposed to say it's projects. This is possibly about some of the projects they will apply to the ministries, there is no reason why they do not receive funds, but will avoid direct dependence on the state budget and will of the minister, and thus direct interference of the current political structure on the work of the Croatian agricultural chamber, and full independence due to independent funding. It's good, and I have to answer to someone there that it's not good, I say it's good, which is then regulated by this law for farmers who get incentives, membership is collected in a way that the paying agency accounts and suspends the prescribed membership fee, and is paying into the account of the Chamber, so that this simplifies the payment method for the farmers themselves. I think it's much better for farmers than they have to pay 72 or 6 kuna each month or every year for some form. Although membership in Croatia involves a certain cost, benefits should be much, much greater, especially for small OPGs who have not been protected from anyone so far. Of course we need to talk about the visibility of the Chamber here. It has been very little visible so far, but surely one reason was precisely the lack of financial resources. Surely they couldn't pay the emissions, couldn't pay the media to follow them, that engagement would now have to be much stronger, the Chamber not only in terms of visibility, but also the engagement of their unification of interest, especially small farmers. The Chamber will collect the views of all its members and uniquely represent interests with the Ministry of Agriculture, primarily with the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm asking you, how could they have performed towards the Ministry of Agriculture that has financed them so far? What kind of power and argument did they have? Then, according to other state bodies, and most importantly, representing the EU and lobbying through this powerful, Croatian agricultural chamber is a full member... , so it is a strong roof organisation of farmers in the EU through which they lobby outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why the Chamber must be strengthened structurally and financially in order to bring its farmers into sectoral committees and to connect them with the working committees in the EU. The new Law further defines membership activities on promoting interest at national and international level, such as coordination of rural development activities, organisation of various consultations for the needs of members, as well as media promotion of the Chamber and all aspects of its activities in agriculture, food safety, animal health protection and animal welfare. Further cooperation with other chambers, such as the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, such as the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but agronomic and veterinary as their related chambers, is also arranged. So, ultimately, the aim of adopting one in a number of agricultural good laws is to create a prerequisite in this segment for our agricultural producers, for our chamber members to be involved in the creation of a agricultural policy, and through education, to provide better information on new knowledge and technologies, and for their application to the OPGs, as well as for the integration of all the divided numerous associations that have been totally divided so far. Someone before me was already talking about whether it was targeted, thought-out or something. All of this, in order to increase the quality, quantity and competitiveness of domestic agricultural production against competition outside, which has been technically and technologically ready for a ruthless competition for many years, in which our farmer is already weak and inferior in the beginning. That is why I call on the Government and the Ministry for positive discrimination on the gentle and young Croatian agricultural production wherever possible because it is done outside. He's secretly subsidizing everything and everything in various ways. Its own agricultural production so that it can feed the nation, but also be competitive in the single European but world market. The HDZ Club will therefore support this good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80342	I thank my colleague Križanić for this debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague of Christmas Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of the agricultural chamber, we can say that we recognized its importance and the establishment of the agricultural chamber in 2009 and then the law stated everything that is stated and now as the activity of the chamber. But that didn't come back to life with us, but that's not why we should be disappointed because here, I personally listened to a lecture from the representatives of the Austrian Agricultural Chamber, the Koruska Regional Chamber, where he told us, so you're not so bad. Our association began in 1808, farmers. Since 1957, we have an agricultural chamber founded the way it works now. Something I still remember from his presentation was when they said how much interest they appreciated in Austria and when they conducted the survey, they were doctors first, and on another farmer because without agriculture, without food production, they really couldn't live. And now that we're comparing it to us, I think we all have to work a lot to get the Agricultural Chamber back together. And when we are discussing this law today, when we are discussing this, that membership will now be mandatory for all those support users, I have also tried and found a parallel here with Austria, which is relatively close to us and I have not compared myself to Bavaria or France but they also have mandatory membership. They have a mandatory membership for anyone who owns 1 hectare of the country. He must be a member. I know it's a lot easier there because it's a centuries-old tradition, because they actually want a merger, they want a merger from machine rings, into cooperatives in structural associations, but if at least a part of it we would have done a lot for our agriculture. Professional association, with us is association in medical chambers, lawyers, audit, veterinary, as we have heard, we have a total of 22 professional chambers. Is the agricultural chamber a professional chamber? Well, the agricultural chamber would actually be professional, but in some ways organisational, because if looking at 97% of the users' support are O.P.G.'s. Trade companies are organized in HGK, craftsmen in the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and the OPGs have not been, until now, anywhere, so this is actually both professional and somewhat organisational. The membership fee, is one vote right? Do you introduce a membership contribution? Members' contributions, they were in the HGK, they were in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and were abolished, not only because they were seen as an additional cost, but also because they showed many irregularities, precisely in the decision-making part within the chamber. It's a good thing one member, one vote, so then the membership fee is the same, because I was just saying that we have 97% of the OPGs, which are most of them and which can affect exactly the decisions that matter to them. When we mention the amount of membership fee of 6 kn per month, every membership fee, that is, everything that we have to pay, we see as an imposition, unless someone presents us, unless we experience it, is actually an investment in something that we expect benefit in the next period. So, first of all, we need to know why our farmers will pay those 6 kn a month? Here, parallel, 6 kn per month, and it's just us coming in to make you an obligation to pay the membership fee, that you have one hectare of pasture, so that's 1,000 kn minimum support, or that's now, somewhere around 0.7% of the previous membership fee, the mandatory one that was in 2009 was 0.5, so that's the only place you don't, and everything else is a far greater reduction. I agree with my colleague Križanić, and we talked about it, which would have resulted in six kn each month being paid through a transfer order. We know which, most of our farmers are still in the system, to take a payment card, that transfer order and carry it to the post office or to the bank and to the payments. On that 6 kn, we'd be paying another 5 kn. And they have to take something away, waste time and everything. It is therefore good, that this way was introduced once a year, that support should be reduced by that amount. Here, I've got a little voice problem, so I'm going to finish, so we're going to support this law, but we would like our farmers to see it as an investment and not as an imposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80344	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Macar, for this debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, dear colleague Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80345	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law, i.e. the proposal of the HPC Act, can essentially be said that we are most controversial in this section, and there is change, the introduction of membership fees. Will farmers be threatened with 72 pounds a year, membership fees? She won't, she'll be threatened for sure, and that's what her colleague Hrg said, and I absolutely agree with them, but here, in 2012, that membership fee was abolished precisely because of the message. Messages to farmers, you work, products, but we won't give any extra charges. And that's the basic thing why we're actually opposed to this bill and that's why we think farmers shouldn't pay anything extra. First of all, my opinion is that we need to help farmers, because they're in a difficult situation, that's definitely true, and we can all agree on that. But to ask them for membership, and not to see for themselves what the meaning of membership is and what benefits they have from HPK, that's definitely true and they say so themselves. It won't go away for 72 thousand kunas, 72 kunas, a year, but they don't see the meaning of it all together. Here's what we actually want to say, and I think that's how the government of the Republic of Croatia should do to give a message. Enough parafiscal burdens, enough of what our citizens need to pay for, enough of what farmers need to pay for, businessmen, without seeing any use of it. I think yesterday we talked about the Law on Croatian Waters and Waters in general, many citizens always wonder why they pay something to Croatian waters. I don't think you should pay, but you need to explain to everyone why and what they're paying for. I also think that farmers have the right to say why they are against this membership fee. I can only read something that a farmer sent me, and then it comes down to what they are against. He says: I don't know about the public debate in the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and if it's up to me, I'll be against mandatory membership in it. And while the membership was mandatory, I didn't want to pay the membership fee, so I'll probably do that if it's mandatory. Adding that he doesn't want to finance his own trip to China with his own money. It's the basic thing that worries all farmers who paid membership fees, who will again pay where the money goes. And I also asked the secretary of state a question, although clearly not just the board of directors and everything that the agricultural economic chamber actually has, or HPK has, which is the authorities of the chamber are the HPK Assembly, the HPK Management Board, the HPK Supervisory Board and the HPK President, we know who it is. I don't know if you know, I don't know, why are you spending money in HPK, where does he end up? I have initially set up a replica to the secretary of state, I would not like to prejudge, but we know what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has turned into, the private ATM of Mr Vidosevic, on which the Croatian state has spent millions of kuna on trial and nothing has happened. It is frustrating, it is frustrating for all Croatian citizens, it is frustrating for all those entrepreneurs who paid the membership fee to the Chamber of Commerce and nothing happens. If there's a crime already, there's always been a crime and there will always be a crime, as far as I know, unfortunately. But if only we knew there was a rule of law, that this rule of law condemns, brings and condemns those who manipulate public money. This is not happening in our Croatian country. Of course, then the citizens doubt all this together, they're unhappy, and in this case, here are farmers who won't fail because of 72 kunas a year, but they don't see the purpose of it all together. Why aren't the farmers in the chamber? All at this point, I think that under 1% of farmers in the chamber, clearly they do not see the meaning of all this together, but here, from the Ministry of Agriculture, they say that HPK should not have financed taxpayers, but rather its task is to protect the long-term interests of Croatian farmers. Now I would like to look back on the protection of the long-term interests of Croatian farmers. How much HPK did it really make for the long-term interest of Croatian farmers? Here's an example of Agrokor. I must say I'm glad if this Agrokor thing is going in the right direction and if we're going to save Agrokor because by saving Agrokor, we're going to save Croatian farmers, and we know how many Croats. The farmer counted on Konzum, when we talk about Agrokor bench, how many Croatian products were in Konzum in Croatian, on their shelves. I go from time to time to other shopping centres and to Lidl and Kaufland and those who are no longer in Croatia, under quotes in Croatian ownership and do not see many Croatian products. There were many Croatian products in Konzum. Croatian farmers could still count on the placement of their products via Konzum. Will that be in the future? I'm afraid it's going to be a lot, a lot harder or impossible. Agrokor and Konzum will likely end up in foreign ownership. Will the foreign owner have an understanding for Croatian farmers? And will HPK be able to fight for better status of Croatian farmers? Because if our Croatian farmer produces goods for the market, how will they place it? In the markets? I don't think that's enough, it's over the chain of commerce. What will happen to the Croatian farmer in the future? And we lost something that still provided such a placement of Croatian products. What's going to happen in the future? What about the PIC, what about all the other producers within the Agrokor group? I don't think the Russians or I don't know, some other owners will ruin, or buy and destroy these factories, farmers, but I think they will, and we know that these producers are doing high-quality agricultural products, that these farmers will place their goods on the side market and then the quality products of Croatian producers will end up in Austria, Germany, Russia, and the Croatian consumer will have a side of goods, less quality, and you can all be sure when you enter Lidl, Kaufland or any other side of the house of less quality. Finally, here is our Parliamentarian who spoke about how many products are of an unequal quality for the EU or for the Croatian market. It was about some banal stuff, and that's what's gonna happen in the future. It is my concern which is the future of Croatian agriculture, Croatian farmers. And it is not a problem in the membership fee of 72 kuna, but it is a problem who will protect their interests, will it be HPK which has not protected much of the Croatian producer so far? That's my biggest doubt. And here's to the end I'm going to say what all entrepreneurs are saying. Not long ago, there was one survey, and she said, 75% of Croatian entrepreneurs think the stimulating investment climate in Croatia is a non-incentive investment climate. 75% of entrepreneurs think that, and only 1% of entrepreneurs think our investment climate is stimulating, 1%. It would be good if we could ask Croatian farmers if the general climate in Croatian agriculture and in Croatia is encouraging or not, would it be 1% or below 1% or perhaps more? That's what it's all about. And that's why here in the end, the SDP will be against this bill because we need to give and take care of agriculture, not take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80346	I thank my esteemed colleague, Preleco. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80347	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, distinguished state secretaries with associates. The HSS Club is one of the initiators or HSS to regulate the situation in Croatian agriculture in a way if it is already a strategic branch of the economy then we have this regulated area through the Law on Agricultural Land, through the Law on the OPG, through the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practice, and the Continuance of the Law on Agricultural Advisory Services and the Law on HPK, that these are initiatives and ideas from 2009 from the law that has just been proposed by the HSS in this House and which has been adopted. Because when you talk to these 165 thousand registered in the register of agricultural producers today, and I believe that the vast majority would say that Croatia needs HPK. Why? So we want to learn from the better, it's already mentioned here by Austrian agricultural producers, Bavarian, French where we see that they are well organized, that they have their own agricultural chamber, that they pay membership fees. But what is this chamber of theirs, and what is their role in the agricultural product market, and what is their impact on the adoption of policies related to the development of agriculture and food production in their areas? Very big. Here is just an illustration, in Bavaria without a agricultural chamber no act, no law, no regulation can be passed and even go to the point where they negotiate the price of electricity for agricultural food production plants. And what is the state of Croatia's agriculture today, and what is the state of the HPK? And here is the President of the Republic himself, at the opening of the fair in Bjelovar, said that we have halved agricultural production, that we do not have a strategy to develop agriculture and that we do not have enough communication with agricultural producers in how to help them, how to raise agricultural production. Why has HKK membership collapsed, why has there been about a thousand left? Because she didn't answer to a strong HPK. Who didn't answer? Well, ministers, politics, it's easier for them to divide that agricultural producer's Corps into 1137 organizations in the Republic of Croatia, and then you have associations that come from the state budget and that I'm clapping at you, that your law is excellent. And the fact that 100 other associations don't agree with them and don't call meetings. It was done by Minister Jakovina when he abolished mandatory membership in the chamber, that it was divided, not to allow it to have a stronger influence because he saw that there were a lot of HDZ and HSS members in the management bodies. Yeah, and that wasn't good. It must not involve politics in the work of the HPK but must be an institution where they make their interests known, that the chamber represents them also in the adoption of the law that the chamber represents them both when they enter the market and protect them from unfair competition and that it negotiates both with HEP on the price of electricity and through pension laws after they have completed their working status in the OPG. Unfortunately, a chamber like this doesn't work, our agricultural producers give up on agricultural production. It is evidence that between 2013 and 2016 more than 20 thousand are less registered in the OPG register, it is evidence that our agricultural production has dropped, that we are dependent on imports. Here's just for example. More than 300 million euros is imports of fruit and vegetables, and we have ideal conditions and we constantly advocate the re-use of agricultural production from the zone of pure war culture wheat, barley, corn to some more labour intensive and profitable, and we have done nothing to change the situation around imports of fruit and vegetables. And there's exactly the role of the chamber where the sector needs to be protected. What happened in milk production? We don't have it anywhere on the level of 30 to 40% sufficient in the Republic of Croatia. It was precisely because no one had protected these producers that were left to hundreds of associations and had simply passed laws, that imports had occurred and that the existing law on unfair commercial practices had not yet come into life because even though it was still 7-12, even though the commercial houses had to sign new contracts by 31.12. where would those unfair commercial practices have been excluded, so they were extended to 1.4 this year and what happened? Not everyone signed those contracts yet. Did the Competition Protection Agency react to the role of the ministry or chambers? As far as I have information, no one has responded yet and not all contracts are signed yet, yet our producers do not know whether their goods will come to the shelves of these trade chains or whether they will bear the burden of those unfair commercial practices, so they will have to go down at the price of their product to satisfy the houses that will place these products on the shelves. Here is the role of the chamber and this sectoral board association within the chamber to... That's why he needs a chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It takes a chamber and, for example, Agrokor, and it is good that it is accepted that the HSS proposal is that in the interim negotiating council it is a representative of small OPG producers where it is Mr Brlosic, it is good that most of them have been paid, but the fact is that more than 200 OPGs, crafts and others have not been paid in full but all of them with 30% because they have crossed that production quota above or traffic of 5 million kuna per year, so you can think, the large manufacturers and now they are in the same basket with banks, funds and other large suppliers and they will be with them and there are over 200 and their demand was only up to 300 million kuna, and at that time they were paid to advisers more than 300 million kuna. And that chamber was supposed to contribute, but as it is now with 1,000 members, there is no way that it has any more significant impact on such policies that have occurred in the Republic of Croatia. We are all to blame because we have allowed policies to be conducted in agriculture and that the chamber does not live, and now this law is the chance for the chamber to return to the scene, to return to the OPGs because over 80% to 90% of these OPGs are in membership and only 20% are companies and crafts, and through this one vote would have the power to make a decision but not these 1,000 because, as far as I've talked to representatives and associations and agricultural producers, the problem is why it went into the law to make mandatory membership because they are afraid that these 100 would make a decision on a much larger membership and manage tomorrow because we know that the assemblies are going to be with tomorrow 100,000. And maybe this isn't a bad suggestion, but the resistance is great that it's a new imposition. And they've been shared with the OPG's opinions, all of them, so that the chamber can be strong, to be exactly what they need to represent their interests, to benefit from that chamber because so far, objectively, they couldn't even bear the fact that it was what it was and on the other hand that they had a new financial obligation. And I think that here until the second reading, these talks with the representatives of the OPG and the associations can be made to produce the best model because it is not in the Law on the Chamber of Commerce or in the Chamber of Commerce defined by membership of the law, but in their statutes and other acts of their own. It may be a good suggestion to consider this by the second reading and to leave the possibility of members themselves, meaning not these 1,000 but 100,000 of them decide whether they will have mandatory membership and how much they will be and that they certainly need to be financially strengthened by the chamber, that such as is not a chance. I also said in the reply to the Secretary of State that there are not enough 300,000 kunas in the state budget in this year for the chamber as the transitional year until membership and membership is established because only membership in this year in the European Association of Agricultural Chambers costs more than 400,000 kuna and tomorrow it will cost about one million kuna and it is a member of the HPK and other associations. The fees are from 2 to 8, 10,000 euros. That from these 300,000 kunas I can't pay. They managed to write EU projects, so they financed their salaries and work of the chamber from EU money. In this way, there is no ministry either, but the government has shown that they care about the chamber, has not given them enough resources to work quality and that through these EU projects and EU money they continue to develop their associations, committees and county offices. It is also important how the chamber will look tomorrow, and I also told the board that, in order to make quality decisions, we should make some action plan and responsible persons and the financial resources needed over the next five years where we see HPK and what kind of work it will be, not exactly what we are all afraid of, a new space for embezzling political thinkers. No, it's to be a real chamber that represents all the revoir of agricultural production and give us a chance to raise agricultural production. This way, if it stays this way, if we allow the chamber to be on paper alone, there will be nothing of the power of the chamber or of the strengthening of agricultural production, we will continue to be subject to the import of agricultural products, the reduction of the production of agricultural products, we will continue to have emigration not only from Slavonia and Baranja but also from other undeveloped regions. And certainly that the chamber as an association of agricultural producers must have its own position there in which to raise agricultural production in those parts. And that these ends must no longer be just a raw material base, that it does not happen as it did in Belje, to move the meat processing into Vrbovac and only the raw material base remains there. This does not create new jobs in Slavonia Baranja, so no higher income is created, so no conditions are created for the preservation of that space, the life in that space. And surely that the chamber should also give its own, have an impact on the final settlement and that we don't care what it looks like tomorrow neither Belje, Vupik, PIK Vinkovci, Vrbovec, or any other agrolagoran, companies from the Agrokora system because they make up a gro of agricultural and food production, it's true and it's not irrelevant. And we want to be a Croatian country that has enough food production for the needs of its population and we have a chance through tourism and exports achieved. Because we wanted to join the EU, 500 million inhabitants, a huge market, a chance for our agricultural production and our agricultural producers. Our exports are not growing, or very little, and imports have increased enormously. Just one more piece of data, 60 thousand tonnes of frozen dough is imported into the Republic of Croatia from pastries and other products to scrap. And we reduce the production of wheat from 150 thousand hectares to only about 90 thousand hectares in Croatia. So is this the future we want for Croatia and Croatia? I think it is not and that we need to seriously consider adapting this Law on the Agricultural Chamber and other laws to these very agricultural producers and agricultural production and creating such policies that will guarantee further growth and development of agriculture in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80348	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80349	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, we're talking about an agricultural chamber that should protect our farmers, and we're still talking about a single charge that's the same for the smallest OPG, for a man who has one goat or one cow and reported it as an OPG because he's got some kind of support, an incentive for that, and for example. The biggest Whites. So we are talking here about 100,000 new meanings of members to be paid to the chamber, but it is much more important whether that chamber fought for farmers or whether it was more done by individuals, farmers and associations by fighting against the meaning of bad government policies. Either there was an extended arm of that chamber or the results we see on the ground, here we only have an increase in 2015 and so we go by 120% more importing eggs than we are, 115% higher, importing eggs. We're not going to talk about dairy production where, before, there's a subsidy, i.e. 5 billion kunas the Croatian state decided 6 years ago to beat in, with the right decision in dairy production, then we had 64,000 dairy producers and today we have 4600, so then we had 70% of the milk capacity for the Republic of Croatia and now we have 20%. So where is this money, was the chamber fighting or was it just extended to governments that destroyed the Croatian village? So when we just read what Croatian imports from figs, eggs, milk, and the stables are empty. He invested a lot of money in Slavonia for farms and now these people are in Ireland. Which is why Croatia is a state, Croatian agriculture, i.e. The ministries called on people to invest so much money and eventually they had to because they were not competitive, the state did not help them how they needed help, now these farms are empty and of course they will be bought by much stronger players, mostly foreign owners and the entire laws on agricultural land and the OPG require that foreign legal persons and natural persons take over Croatian agriculture both land and law are allowed to be founded and the OPGs should not have them here, that they should not live in Croatia. Once again, I am sorry that he is not a minister here, that he publicly says once as a fighter, a reformist for farmers, that he publicly says that this is one, another imposition to all the meanings of the OPGs, so for 100,000 will be those who have incentives, everyone will have, pay membership fees and the chamber will be essentially increased, expanded because this money will naturally go to hiring new likeers because simply that chamber has not done its job. Something they were trying to do, I'm repeating farming associations again, or individuals were trying to force protests to be forgotten, and that's a fact. That's why we have two-thirds of Croatia empty and it's not a problem here, it's not a problem, it's a farmer, it's a problem of policies that have been implemented and that have targeted farmers in third countries, that's the problem. Because if we have this many imports, so we can observe it not only through agriculture, we can observe it, they say through the declaration of an exclusively economic belt where our fishermen are there, they are watched how much they can have, how much they need to be measured while foreign fishing fleets, mostly Italian, fish in our territorial waters as much as they want, without control, flora and fauna, are huge fishing fleets, ships that destroy literally and seas, and submarines and our fleet. Once again, we expected that there would be no impose on farmers, we expected protection as said the protector of the minister who has been all along saying that he would be in the protection of agriculture, but here we have the duress. They say it's a small imposition, but what's a small imposition for anyway, and for what? Is the chamber actually fighting for the survival of peasants, farmers in villages, in its places? No, I don't. Let's take a look at the results. The result is, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. So you better make this money that's going to be, so somewhere... About 7.8 million kuna, if I'm not mistaken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it as much as, less, yes, it doesn't matter. Why isn't that money invested in dairy production, to encourage dairy? However, the fact is that this is another imposition for farmers and ministers should send a clear message, we parliamentary representatives, a lot of imposing in agriculture, very few people left to deal with agriculture, mostly younger people. Mostly everyone moved out or left the farms, so now you will see from Slavonia, those who were to produce, will now go to the waiters and clean rooms during the tourist season on the Adriatic. And that's the problem, instead of having their products on tables in restaurants and as a tourist offer, not importing more eggs than we produce. It is a sad fact, and it was the Chamber, and yet you impose the burdens, from which you will charge them, when the target destroys the village and peasant, when the last nail in the coffin and the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on OPG, the last nail in the coffin of Croatian farmers, and the results are visible. So here, from Slavonia, let the parliamentary representatives say either HDZ or SDP or Mosta or any group, what the situation in agriculture is and what that Chamber has done. Here, let the peasants say, farmers, what did the Chamber do for them? Let the minister come here, let him call a round table, let him call in milkmen, producers, agricultural productions, any branches. Nothing. It was an extended hand for praises, it could be called the Chamber, the ministry it was well designed, but before it could call the Ministry of Promotion and Praise of the current government, change, instead of the Agricultural Chamber. And it's a real situation. The associations were farmers, those who wore the whole search process, the opposition to the bad laws, but you didn't listen to them, but the Chamber, in that I didn't hear that the Chamber came down to the Ceti area and helped the milkmen. I don't remember. I don't remember her fighting anything, that we should have her irrigated the Sinj field, the Vrgorak field, the Imot field, those karst fields, I didn't hear that. Shut up, if farmers were to be, just silence is enough and we have a couple of employees in those chambers. This is coercion, someone says small, but it's imposed and it's the same for the strongest companies to the lowest OPG, that's a fact. And I'm sorry the minister avoids, I know he's got a good PR, but here let him get out and for what reason he's brought this regulation, this other imposition to the farmers, if that... You can call, so let's explain why this imposition to farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80350	Thank you, dear colleague Bulju, we have several replicas of respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80351	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Bully, for your pure populism, for being yourself contradictory. On the one hand, you're saying that it's a coercion, a harbinger, that it's a force for the independence of the chamber, that the Chamber could be independent, just so that the government's arm wouldn't be extended, as you say. I wonder how you would then determine the financing of the chamber, if you're not in favor of paying a fee of 6 kn per month, and you're not even willing to be extended by the state. How would you determine and how to finance the Chamber, if the hand of these farmers could be extended especially in the EU, for lobbying, because you know what lobbying means for agriculture nowadays, especially in the EU. And this thing that the Chamber has to do more, I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80352	Thank you, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80353	I'll start at the end. Should Croatia, I ask a question, be reconsidered since we entered Croatia into the EU, which is agriculture. Is it a better condition or worse? Did more farmers move away than they started to build farms, develop. Unfortunately for all of us, the promise of pre-accession negotiations, the people has been deceived. I know there was a unanimous vote here to join the EU, but the fact is that the 3.5 billion kuna money that we have in our account, which we are paying the EU, has returned only 3% to the Republic of Croatia, is a fact and we are paying European farmers, and we are not paying our own, and we are not executing our own. For what? Because we are unprepared in the EU. I'm just asking you the results, are we importing more milk now than when we're out of the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80354	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj, next replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80355	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I will begin my replica with one correction, no more Slavons on the Adriatic, they are long ago in Ireland in Germany and who knows where in the world. But I agree with you, and I want to say something else, so, HPK will represent the interests of farmers or not. I think the Chamber still exists today, as it represents the interests of farmers, here is a colleague of Vlaovic's talking about it. So many of the things that happen in the agricultural sector are lagging behind. We also have HGK, so how does it represent the economy? Whether it's an effective representation, other than meeting in the Czechs, collecting statistics, I haven't noticed that they've done anything radically good for the economy. And in the end will the hand of politics be extended? So we all know who he is and how he got to the head of HGK, will that be the case with the agricultural chamber? I don't mind if someone wants to pay a membership fee to the agricultural chamber, but not for our money to play with a policy of incarceration and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80356	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic, the answer, my colleague Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80357	My colleague Hajdukovic, I would say that, but what's left, I see a lot of Slavons, unfortunately they come down and it's a better variant than if they went to Ireland, because they will still return to Slavonia, however, all the governments, all the pre-election campaign, remember that they need to connect green and blue Croatia. Unfortunately, the green has been cut off, and the blue we simply have only products from imports. That's a fact. That story we all remember, all the governments promised. As for the Chamber, how they defended the peasants and the village, it was simply that peasants and farmers could not defend against them, how fierce they were in support in all governments. I didn't see them. I haven't seen them, I repeat, first of all in my neighborhoods, in the Cetina region. I don't know if you've seen them in your places? Here, a colleague from HSS mentioned earlier what their role was and the intensity of the struggle for the Croatian village and peasants, that the village had literally been extinct and we are yet to impose the same force on those wealthy companies and the smallest OPGs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80358	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80359	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, you say Croatia imports eggs. That's true, but I would say, and what does Croatia not import? Why does Croatia not import? We say that we have a God-given state, that we can produce everything and everything, and then we literally import almost all agricultural products and we have nothing. What we used to say, in previous discussions, the Agricultural Land Act and everything else about agriculture, we need a strategy. And if this additional membership fee is going to go towards making the Croatian Agricultural Chamber an initiator of the Croatian Agriculture Strategy together with the Ministry, but also to all of us who can help Croatian farmers, then I will finally say, yes, I was wrong when I was against such a proposal for legislation and a proposal for membership to be introduced, but gentlemen, until we have a strategy, until we know what we will produce, then we will import both eggs and apples and strawberries and all that we lack.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80360	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80361	Thank you very much. So if Croatia had a strategy to plant it all with a camel and make tea, we'd have enough markets. So, just one, all of Croatia, let alone something else. So he was interested in destroying the Croatian village and peasants. We have all the conditions, we have the conditions for figs, so we import the most figs. We have conditions for everything. What was that Chamber doing? What was done by the ministry, except, of course, giving from the OPG funds that were intended to be used as an incentive for both the EU and the Croatian incentives, were given to Todorovic and strong players through the OPG's sister. It's a fact, but nobody's going to say it because they're intellectual political elites, representatives of the largest institutions, but they won't say why. They're probably fine when they won't tell the truth to those who would have to tell the truth. The village and the peasant is destroyed, and this is a new load. The minister has avoided coming here for discussion, for what? He knows. Because he won't be mistakenly perceived in public because he's looking out for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80362	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80363	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you that agricultural production is in decline, that we import everything and everything, so here you have said and eggs, but it is not the agricultural chamber because of it, but the governments, the ministries and the overall policy that was towards agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, that we have made such decisions that went against domestic production. We didn't have what you said to make the right decisions. So, we didn't raise our homemade egg production. And what we've got, and we've got mandarin production, we've broken the same thing. 30,000 tonnes was less produced last year in the Republic of Croatia, and now we have the courage to make a decision to ban Russian diplomats and their staff from diplomacy, and we know that the Russian market is one of the largest buyers of Mandarin. Here, these are the policies where the chamber should also contribute and influence it, not make decisions without agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80364	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80365	Well, of course it's easier to talk to some members, some countries, so it's easier to chase Russian diplomats and it's easier to go on a needless visit to Serbia where the Chetnic Duke is a parliamentary, it's much easier and a war criminal. And it's unnecessary and of course we need to talk about this thing. The chamber didn't hear her voice. Farmers' associations have opposed the bad decisions of Croatian governments on their own. The Chamber didn't hear a voice, it's a key problem. The chamber should be the one representing the peasant. To be less imports, not to import frozen meat that's 30 years old and says where the disease comes from. The lamb of New Zealand 12 kuna pounds, and we destroyed its production of lamb in Podinar, the understone, Pag, Dalmatia. Targeted because the import lobby was sitting there in ministries all the time, an import lobby, except the institutions aren't doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80366	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80367	Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, the EU's common agricultural policy is a set of large numbers of documents and rules governing the production of agricultural products. There may be one joke, perhaps and indeed that the cabbage regulation is written on 500 pages. So what we have to fully strip, the membership in the Chamber will be paid out of support, it's defined by law. So, we support farmers, which defines the common agricultural policy, in order to have safe quality cheap food, we will now finance the Chamber instead. If the Chamber is on that trail to help farmers in this particular cause, to have quality, cheaper and healthy food, then we will succeed. However, if the Chamber, and we'll see it very soon, doesn't achieve any result, which unfortunately, I believe and I, then, in fact, as you said, we'll only have one imposition that will be meaningless.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80368	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80369	That's how it's supposed to be. But the government's doing the saw upside down. It strengthens its capacity obviously in chambers, rather than giving this money support in production and increasing domestic production, because they want to have ministries, to have their own branches that will be as protectors in this case of farmers, there economics that will be essentially parts that will embellish their legal initiatives and their jobs. Therefore and the village there di, therefore the village, is a peasant, agriculture is there because that money could be much better used to support, increase domestic production. This is an imposition for farmers, it has to be remembered, by force, how much it is, but it's another imposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80370	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80371	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, I can sign almost 99% of the things you said. There is one problem, and you are the ones who in principle started with all those who have been destroying Croatian agriculture for 27 years thanks to the import lobbys behind them, thanks to the commercial lobbys and I am glad that you came to your senses, and I am glad that it is never too late and I am glad that you and other colleagues in Most, which is the key problem of Croatian villages. You speak as a true primal national tribunal and I repeat 90% of things you are right, and in order to be 100% management I invite you to come to the oldest Croatian political party and learn everything you do not yet know about the Croatian village and the future of the Croatian village, you are always welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80372	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80373	Well, I'd be on my way from the beginning of my colleague, Beljaku, I'd say in 2015 we weren't, I was then, then the HSS was high-ranking in power and here your colleagues were even assistants. Maybe the HSS, I'm not talking to you, has had the biggest impact in the Ministry of Agriculture for the last 20 years and it's been really self-porting to these policies. You know when the Bridge came that very briefly lasted the government and you weren't in Parliament because we knew how to say enough and go back to the elections, we used to say it. And you as HSS I don't know what your moves were when you were secretaries while you had ministers, I don't remember them, except they favored import lobbys and that's the problem. And you can thank the Bridge, Mr. Beljak, for being an extraordinary election and for telling 12 people not to make such a policy and choosing you to Parliament in these extraordinary elections. And what Stjepan Radic now says to these solutions of yours, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80374	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I would ask you to stick to the subject in the following answers. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think Mr. Bulj is saying things he obviously forgot. And I agree with him that, I'm the first one to criticise my party's policies at a time when we were part of the ruling coalition, but it wasn't 2015. In 2015, we became practically... party thanks to these bad policies and coalitions with HDZ. You're right about the rest. But you got a chance, don't get mad, you got a chance at politics with neither one of the others with a new story, but you also abused it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80376	I'd like to thank my colleague, Whitey. Whether or not someone has forgotten some things or not is an individual thing, and it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I don't know what the injured article 238 is. Rules of Procedure, so please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure Institute in the future. Here you are, Mr. Bull, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80377	Infringement of Article 238, Beljak continues to repeat 2015. 2015 The bridge wasn't at national political level, you said that again in your first speech, so you're repeating. The only truth is that it's HSS, so your fellow parliamentary representatives were high-ranking in the Ministry of Agriculture, that's true, so you see read it and you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80378	Thank you. Comrade Bully is also the same answer. Please don't abuse the Institute of Rules of Procedure, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. Let's move on, the replica of the esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80379	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. I can understand your fear and instrumentalization of the chamber in favour of perhaps a particular party from some history, however, if we look at examples of other countries, the Czech associations carry a large part of the assistance, cooperation, advancements in a particular company. Because some of them are past sins, we don't have to forget the future. And what I want to say here can only be welcomed that the obligation only for those who receive it is not for everything and we can welcome it, it would be good for other chambers to start doing that if they only pay membership fees is mandatory for those who receive some money from the budget. And as for the withdrawal from the funds, 10 billion were paid in '15, '16, '17, 20 billion were agreed, and what was the problem was only paid 5.5, 6. That's the data... It's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80380	I thank my colleague Curai. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80381	My colleague Curaj, you've really explained this in a credible way, is it simply that if it wasn't for you there would be new elections and what would be democratic and what would be best and what would be your explanation when you enter from one list from one political spectrum, and you get to another then it's really credible. As far as payments are concerned, the Croatian state has paid a lot more, paid a lot more than it has returned. So by 2020 we will pay total, I didn't say about agriculture 3.5m euros in the EU budget and we have returned... Only 3% and we need to review the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know you'll explain it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80382	I thank you, Stjepan Curaj, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80383	I thank the Vice President, Article 232 was injured, he's not talking about the subject, and he's not even listening to what I'm replicating, he's starting to talk about something else. And as for this data,... just to make it seem statistical and factual and to stick to them, no 3% is right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80384	Comrade Curaj, Vice President Brkic tells me that he did not harm the Rules of Procedure so that you have misused the Institute and you are being warned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80385	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Curai, you've hurt Article 238 because as you know, I've listened to you or I haven't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80386	Let's move on, the replica of dear colleague Mikulić, come on in. I wasn't present, so I'm not going to be involved in anything right now, what I heard, I heard. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80387	Article 238, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jandrokovic, President of the Parliament, and you have just appeared, you have immediately given notice. Vice President Brkic played the debate in a democratic sense and I can say that he is much softer than you, you have become as strict as you are, I ask you not to do it, an immediate reminder, and you have not yet sat down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80388	Here's a warning for you because you're a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80389	So, Mr. Bulj, I hope you're listening to me, your question in the debate was anything that the chamber did and, among other things, in your presentation, you were both partially and contradictory since you stated and said yourself that individuals were trying to run certain things but failed, and that is why you need HPK to unite and empower all our agricultural producers. And now I'd like to give you a few things that this agricultural chamber you think is unnecessary, and I'd like to do. So the member is a COPA-cogec, located among 30 places on the commission has the possibility of obtaining information from other Member States as well as what is happening and what is being implemented and for the first time in history can actively participate in the creation of a new CAP and here is something a little more frigid than the same chamber has done, was one of the main initiators of the regulation of a regulation on unfair trade practices, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80391	Dear colleague, I have not said a word that the chamber is unnecessary. The chamber didn't do its job, instead of the chamber was done by associations and individuals farmers. That's the problem, they didn't do it, if they did their job, you'd see the results. I repeat that we import more eggs only in 2015, compared to 2014 increased by 120%. We import over 100 million eggs of consumables. And meat, production, our cattlemen, farmers, they did not oppose and enforce laws and fight for laws for our farmers, but farmers themselves. We give money now, we hack farmers from the lowest to the greatest to strengthen one institution that hasn't done its job. That's a fact. That's the result. We have meaning empty Slavonia and 2/3 Croatian farmers, that's the problem, the chamber didn't do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80392	Let's move on with the individual debates, now it's time for a respected colleague, Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80393	Thank you, Your Honor. There's finally a peasant. the agricultural producer may discuss this subject. The agricultural chamber, of course we need the agricultural chamber, is just a question of how the agricultural chamber will operate and how much it will contribute to the competitiveness of agricultural producers, i.e. OPGs and legal entities engaged in agricultural production. The most important thing here is the membership fee, which is 72 kuna a year, which is really one negligible amount if the agricultural chamber contributes to its members' profits. I'll pull a parallel with a Bavarian agricultural chamber that has about 50 euros fixed per property plus about 5 euros per hectare, I may have missed something small but it's around here somewhere. Their chamber only through the negotiation of electricity prices for their free market properties saves them more than that membership fee that they pay the chamber with their chamber having 7 different agencies working for them under favourable conditions and projects for their buildings and all that it takes for one agricultural property to make it as competitive as possible. And they even make loans with -1%. You heard right, with -1% interest on your agricultural holdings in Germany. As far as the agricultural situation in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is getting worse and worse, we see through statistics of the number of OPG disappearances, and simply through these 1130 associations in agriculture that we have, similar to the defense associations, adversities so rule against each other, and there is no benefit for agricultural production anywhere. The agricultural chamber, except that it will have the leadership of that chamber that will likely and significant incomes, will also have its own costs, through the membership of the OPG will be around 7.5 million kuna plus other contributions that are from the state budget, which are exceptional revenues meaning through various donations, sponsorship, through their own activity, although I do not see here what is the own activity that the chamber will do through this law. If the chamber is only a political organisation, as it has been lately, and we know that most of it is done in the Republic of Croatia only to get as many votes in the next elections as possible, to get power, and too little is done to make it really in order to help this sector in which the laws are being written and the laws are being created. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia we are not enough perhaps in 2, 3 products we produce and we agricultural producers are simply left to the free market, not only the Republic of Croatia, but also Europe. We sell our grains, corn, soy, wheat, oil rape ourselves in agreement with our buyers we work with or co-operate with, and he regrettably knows how to use Croatia's GMO free soy and place it on the market and he paid us better than Europe, and we didn't know how to use it, process it and fertilize it. The agricultural chamber should encourage association, but the true association that benefits farmers from this association, not just for the creation of some associations, and then those associations, one is left, one is right, the other is in the center. Everyone has their own association and the whole time the war is on the ground. Here's the mention of Copa-cogec, here I had the opportunity to be there and talk to both their leadership and the way they work, here's to say Secretary Copa-cogec is a man who had an estate of some 20 cows he could live from, and unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia of so many cows can't live. What each of our laws massacres is regulations and rules, so that one story we tell here, bring, talk, and then the minister enlarges the whole story in one of his different ways. In order for this chamber to be effective, it must also be independent, it must work in the interest of farmers and I don't know why the financial report must go to the Ministry of Agriculture? I understand that the agency will be the one to take that membership from the expense of family economies and transfer it to the expense of the chamber, but I believe that this chamber should be independent and that the Ministry of Agriculture should in no way be a tutor to the agricultural chamber. The agricultural chamber, here in 2009, when HSS was also one of the initiators and those who struggled to finally create this agricultural chamber, according to models that were also in Bavaria, but also in Austria and Styria, their chamber, which has 300 experts who are free to advise their family economies, which have 80 and a few years of tradition, I think we have very close to good examples of which should literally reflect the model of work that their chambers are building that have proved to be successful and to help farmers achieve competitiveness. How to live in the Republic of Croatia, produce, whether or not to be a member of the chamber, does not mean anything significant to my family economy to me as a agricultural producer, but the ethical question is raised, why pay something if we will not benefit from it? What is the role of a state that forms a single body, a chamber, if that chamber literally does not serve those for which it is made? There was also a comment on whether membership is mandatory or optional, if a chamber is created to benefit farmers, then it should definitely be membership and be mandatory because we know what we are like to always forget these checks and then we don't need anything, and then, finally, when we're alone, it's very difficult for us to function. Because here, an Austrian producer told me, I'm not a member of the cooperative because I like to be in the community, but it's a necessity and I have to be a member of a group because I just can't function on the market. So will the chamber contribute to reducing the number of associations of these, which will be more connected or united? Whether the chamber will unite agricultural producers in one place and really represent their interests which it has not so far remains a matter of time. For the time being, I think that in the activities that the chamber here writes should add some things that allow and what I said in Bavaria that some things that are in the free market, such as electricity, fuel prices, or many things that will please the agricultural economies, are still being combined with the first reading, so that some things can be added to the second reading, examined and can be looked at, here I and I recommend that the ministry gentlemen try to see some of those experiences from Bavaria, Austria and try to get closer to us, which is like Croats, always kind of disagree when we need to be united, except when it comes to some very difficult times when we are unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80394	Thank you. Before we move on to replicas, I'd like to welcome students and students from Zadar's vocational school. Welcome. The first in line is a respected colleague of Hajdukovic's, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80395	Thank you very much, President. May you be back from Belgrade alive. So, colleague Lenart, you're a farmer, I think you can best talk about whether HPK is in the shape we have so far makes sense. So, I don't think I'm wrong at all, I'm not against the chamber system, but I'm against the chamber system in which the membership fee is required no matter what service the chamber members receive. I have no doubt that our HPK is organized and that it works as is the agricultural chamber in Bavaria or Austria whose examples you have set to ensure that our farmers would like to be members of the chamber to receive a service in particular in return, so their interests would be protected for their membership. But what I'm not sure is that when we look at our chamber systems so far, I think it will become more of a political lobbying and extended arm of the ruling HDZ, and less of an institution that should protect farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80396	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80397	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. The membership fee is mandatory in both Styria and Bavaria and there no one thinks that they will not pay the membership fee to the chamber because in this way they will lose some of the benefits and eventually lose money, and we know that the aim of all the OPGs is to generate profits from which members of the OPG or some agricultural company will live, receive salaries, finance their own obligations. As far as political lobbying is concerned, I agree with you, it has always been an example of that group of political who can handle the chamber to use the chamber to get votes. I hope that we will overcome it once and that finally this chamber will be the one that will benefit from obtaining the farmer and their well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80398	Another replica of a respected colleague, Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80399	Dear colleague Lenart. So when we talk about membership and compulsory membership in some countries and the benefits that farmers in those countries make sense. But I'm afraid that's not the case with us. If we connect the parallel to the HGK where mandatory membership is paid and we see where that mandatory membership fee was going. Here was an example of Vidosevic playing piano today or playing piano, buying bears, buying various valuable books for that money and having a home private collection of everything and everything. I'm afraid we don't get into the same situation as we did back then. Of course, it would support mandatory payment if both farmers and outside would support payment in the HGK if people also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80400	Thank you. Time. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80401	Thank you. Dear colleague. I agree with you that so far this has not been the case with these membership fees. As for Vidosevic, I think he lives better today than you and I and many of us all live together here. But look, we need to look at ourselves more advanced and more successful and those who have better models far better agricultural production than we are. So that's the closest Austria, so then Germany, there's Italy, and that's all the countries that take care of their agricultural production. We cannot say that our country takes care of us agricultural producers and agricultural production. This is what we see as empty Slavonia, that our production is falling in all segments and that nothing seems to come back to life and rise trend and increase the number of OPGs, as well as agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80402	Let's move on. Dear colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80403	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Col. Lenart, if we follow Croatian agriculture and we follow what it says in the law, we know that a farmer can be a company, that he can be a craft, cooperative, OPG or another legal person, those five categories stand in the law, and if we know that 98 is around, I don't know the question of representation now, but I can read if we know that some 98% of all farmers that the OPGs are small, and for decades we've been working our agricultural policy around the big eye of Todorovic, Hrvatić, Pipunić that I don't say which ones and if we know how they behaveed on the market and it's clear why we've been overrun by now. Therefore, as long as we do not turn to the Croatian farmer as he is, and he is small and he is the OPG Croatian agricultural production will not be improved but will continue the trend of the free fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80404	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80405	Dear colleague Sincic. You have well noticed that most policies have been run around large, but in this segment they need both small and medium and large because large have processing and storage facilities. However, we have said that the OPG is a strategic production unit in law and we should stick to it. And it's simply not us who have to tell farmers that it's worth it to you or it's not worth it, but we have to leave the farmer and his O.P.G. alone to decide whether or not they're worth doing and producing. I lived five acres of land for five years and it paid off. But all the time we've been trying to say minimal production, there can be as many, minimally as many agricultural units, but we never said what the maximum support is. And we think that we should put in a maximum of support that big firms that have daughters and sister companies don't take as much support as they need to pass on to these smaller ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80406	And the last replica of a esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80407	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart. You mentioned with the right question of depolitisation and independence of the chamber. I personally doubt for a few reasons, one of which you said. The state here is being put in place as in 2009 as an education of the education of the education of farmers, so it forces them to join in, this is coercion. So membership in the chamber is mandatory for all who receive support. This initiative does not go from the farmers themselves and therefore I doubt their motivation to participate in the work of the chamber at all. They will have the right to choose and be elected, but this right will eventually be consumed by those who are interested, in other words those who, after all, and the government that initiates this, will in some way push to engage in this story and we will have a truly politicised chamber in which the parties will certainly involve themselves during the elections and it will simply be fate in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80408	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80409	Thank you. Dear colleague Sagar, I doubt the same thing about many things, the right to tell you. However, if we do not go into something, if we remain on suspicion, we will not develop. So we have to go into something, even this Chamber. I hope she'll be on behalf of the farmer and not be a political organization. As far as education is concerned, so many farmers are forced into education, I must confess, but here I am, out of those educations that are done, I don't have any of that because these are all the knowledge that I've been through for a long time because I'm agronomist, so I'm following it. However, there are farmers who are not, but they also overcome, some of the things that are lagging behind the knowledge they should have. Unfortunately, there must be work and income increases in the advisory service in order for experts to come to work because by 5 thousand kuna no expert will work in the advisory service. Believe me, who of you with college would work for 5,000 kunas in such an organization. Probably no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80410	Thank you. We're going to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80411	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Majdak with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Chamber, and today, the representation of the interests of producers is left to a large number of associations and precisely because of this large number of unequal appearances with their views and demands precisely towards national authorities and institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, none of them are financially or administratively able to represent the interests of Croatian producers in the roof international and European associations of agricultural producers in the creation of common positions and the sharing of opinions and the transfer of new ideas and initiatives. Association through chambers is supported by a large majority of EU Member States that have recognised the importance of the agricultural chamber and through their positive legal solutions have long-term strengthened the work of these chambers. I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture as one expert body recognizes the partner in creating strategic guidelines and agricultural policies in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is not a novelty on our legislative scene. It was founded in 2009 with a very clear objective of promoting the protection and representation of the interests of chamber members who participated in the implementation of the legislation. The introduction of voluntary membership by amending the Law in 2012 has led to a significant decline in membership, which has had a dual impact. First, voluntary membership affected the very credibility of representation, which I was talking about in the introduction, and secondly, it affected the question of fulfilling the basic tasks that were assigned to the chamber and the law. It should not be stressed that this led to the current situation where the chamber as a representative of the farmers of the Republic of Croatia represents only 0.6% of our agricultural producers in the roof European Association of Agricultural Producers of COPA-cogec. Given that, for example, family farms are as traditional and strategically important organisational forms of carrying out agricultural activity and production in the Republic of Croatia, this extremely small percentage is inadmissible. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law and call on all other representatives to support the idea of strengthening the role of Croatian Chamber of Commerce's roof organisation in representing over 100,000 producers and associated farmers. The role of the Chamber is crucial in representing their interests, as well as to highlight their specialities in creating a common EU agricultural policy for future programming periods, and one is right in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80412	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you mentioned a large number of associations representing farmers now, who have an unequal voice, etc. I can agree to that in some way, but I'm not sure if this kind of solution over the knee and actually forcing farmers to join up with the country's good solution. I think they would join together if they saw the need, the way and the efficiency of such association. I will remind you that we currently have the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, will now be required by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, so if you are a farmer and exist on the market as d.o.o., and many of those who are small older are thus existing, you must be a member of two chambers. If you have a twist, you also have to be a member of two chambers. So, these parallel structures, the creation of parafiscal liabilities, we are no longer a logical team that we can't be sure that they will really represent interests and fight for the interests of those who pay them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80414	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80415	Here, Mr. Hajdukovic, you are in 2012, or your government has just abolished this necessary participation in the Chamber and this has led us here today where, I said, the Chamber represents only 0.6% of the agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia. I think it is necessary to work even more strongly to unite them precisely in the Chamber as the largest representative body and through these proposals of the law to strengthen the role of the agricultural chamber in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80416	Second replica, dear colleague Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80417	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Coliga Mikulić, you said association, it is clear that it is good to associate farmers that there must be a strong chamber, to protect the interests of family farms, but we also noted, we know what was going on in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and I fear that the establishment of HPK does not happen only to imprison certain ruling structures and that it may have, here today it is likely that a newly elected state attorney will be elected, perhaps it will deal with a newly established agricultural chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80418	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80419	My colleague, I don't think it's serious to reconsider what might happen in this chamber. I personally see her as really one body that will help our farmers, here you all today were full of mouths about what the state of agriculture is, that it's bad, that maybe once the chamber was used for purposes it shouldn't have been, maybe it is. But I think the time has matured today to really through this law, through a strong chamber to help farmers in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80420	Now it's my dear colleague Pernar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80421	Dear Mr. Mikulić. I must tell you that we of the Living Wall stand for freedom of choice. It's the backbone of our program. For this reason, we advocate that membership in the crafts, economics, but also the agricultural chamber be on a voluntary basis. You're saying that these 3 chambers, or agricultural ones in particular, that farmers benefit from it, as they try to explain to these other two chambers, but if they benefit from the obvious, they will want to be members of these chambers, and by forcing them to be members of the chambers they don't want, they're just getting their money, and in the end, that money from very many people is concentrated into the hands of a few who are most often connected to your political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80422	Replication response. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80423	Comrade Pernar, I don't think it's a well-intentioned prejudication either. I believe that the chamber is necessary, that participation in the chamber itself is necessary. I have already cited here today what the chamber has been doing and what the chamber in the future can do with certain and larger financial resources on behalf of the farmer, and in order to have these larger financial resources, a greater number of members is needed, I believe that the actual results of the chamber's work will then be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80424	Thank you. And here's another replica after which we will then join the vote. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80425	Thank you very much. A colleague from HDZ Mikulić. It is clear that the mistrust of Croatian citizens according to HDZ proposals when it comes to chambers, when we see the Chamber of Commerce sucking 27 years of Croatian entrepreneurs, and the main interest of the President of the Chamber of Commerce Vurilovic, who was otherwise the leader of the HDZ in Vinkovci and there cheered and clothed him to now travel with the President of the Republic and to keep her company on trips to Chile, Argentina and around the world, and this is paid by our entrepreneurs, and of which, it is normal that no one believes in the Republic that another chamber will bring something good, and especially to our entrepreneurs what our farmers certainly are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80426	Here's your answer, colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80427	A respected colleague from the SDP, a colleague of Maras. I would just point out one thing, and we had it here recently in the Parliament, and that is a regulation on unfair commercial practice that we all here supported, which we all thought was good, that it was necessary, and that is exactly one of the main initiators of that regulation was the Agricultural Chamber. So the good things will come from a more agricultural chamber with more members and will find a way to represent the interests of our farmers and agricultural producers, both here in the Republic of Croatia and in the EU... the common agricultural policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80428	We are continuing with the agenda point of the proposed HPC Act. Individual debate, esteemed colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So far, most of this has been said about the doubts we have about the HPK and the law ahead of us, but allow me a few more words and consideration from my perspective. So the chamber system in Croatia, at least what we have so far has not proved to be the best solution and as a sectoral association of any entrepreneurs, farmers, craftsmen etc. So we have three chambers of this guy if we count the agricultural chamber that's proposed by this law, which is HGK, HOK and now HPK. How does the HGK represent the interests of the businessmen? From the perspective that I used to run the company myself, very bad to nothing. So, I'm afraid the HGK has become a hunting machine and most of its original intentions, which is to protect the economics, promote their interests and represent them, is not working. Why isn't it working? The Croatian Employers' Association is a very good example for you here. She probably wouldn't exist if HGK was doing his job. The employers' association is a voluntary association. Pay him when you want to be a member to get some particular service. That's how chamber systems should be organized, at least if you ask me because the existence of a chamber for the purpose of having a chamber is not the solution. My colleagues used to make good examples from Austria, Bavaria, and that no one thinks of paying a chamber contribution, yes, it is true, but all those who pay contributions, who are members of the Chamber for that membership and those contributions receive a specific service. It's unfortunately lagging out in our chamber systems. According to my humble assessment, HOC still lives the most and acts the way the chamber should act. And why do I have scapses against HPK? So because they had not shown themselves in this area until now. We also had some cases of non-transparent spending of money, etc., so there were clear doubts about HPC. If something's gonna change, I doubt it will. Whether our farmers will be better protected and represented, I also doubt they will. And this law will have to pay a mandatory chamber contribution, so another parafiscal imposition. This government boasted among other things by abolishing parafiscal duties, discharging entrepreneurs, etc., farmers are also entrepreneurs and I do not see that it is a law that relieves them or significantly improves their position. The second thing is the Croatian Advisory Service that exists, therefore a good part of what the agricultural chamber should do, this advisory support section for farmers for the advisory service. What about the advisory service? Are we doing this parallel command system to express myself, or are we paying both the chamber and the advisory service to do the same work? I'm afraid so. How's the chamber control going to be? If judging by what I said, the chambers that have existed so far, let's say HGK, I believe it will be bad. Here, colleagues have mentioned before me so well-known HGK President Nadan Vidosevic, the current president of the HGK is all but politically neutral, in the HGK it is mostly political personnel, honoring the exceptions of course, which have emerged from one party, not to name which, I am now looking at the seats, so it will be an effective chamber association, effective institutions that will represent the interests of our farmers, I would be absolutely for that law. But taught by experience, and they say that the one who burns, smokes, and cools, I fear that this law will result only in one more additional imposition, a parafiscal intrusion on our farmers, and that essentially nothing will change. And that's why I won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80430	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80431	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you mentioned parafiscal burdens, other than parafiscal duties that this government should have abolished, promised to abolish, not only did they not lift them but instead introduce a bunch of new charges to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they spend, for example, on the PR of state money, the best example is paying of $3.7 million in the Evening List or ironing the image of renting Mr Macan by the Prime Minister. I believe that such things are inadmissible, this parafiscal imposition will really not contribute to the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, it is only an indication that this ministry is doing a very bad job, let's ask the farmers what they think of that chamber. It is quite pathetic that this is another new imposition to make it easier to pay for those that HDZ will make to be presidents, vice presidents of the chamber, we have already seen this example. And we want to build some kind of society? What was the best example recently shown by Switzerland when they had a referendum on whether they wanted to continue paying a subscription for public television where they almost plebiscitely decided they wanted to, I ask myself what our citizens would say about it, and that is... What we're trying to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80432	Thanks to my colleague Tomic, we've changed the rules a little bit. My colleague Hajduković, I apologize before answering, just to welcome us to the gallery were joined by students and students of Otocac High School and their professors and professors. Thank you very much, I wish them a pleasant stay, an apology to another colleague, Hajdukovic, here's an answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80433	Thank you very much, and I join them in greetings. My colleague Tomic, you're absolutely right, so I'm not even going to refer to these cases that you mentioned before, I'm only going to refer to the fact, so the Swiss want to pay a subscription to public television because they get something for that money. And it's no problem to pay a contribution, it's not about that, but if you're going to do something for that contribution, for that membership, you're going to get it. Many of our farmers in the market exist except for the OPGs, there are also d.o.o. and crafts. If you have a company, so d.o.o., you have to pay the membership fee to HGK, you have to pay the membership fee to HPK, you have to pay the contribution for water, contribution for forests, RTB tax, fee for, etc., etc., etc., etc. And here we don't mention taxes, so they just contribute. Therefore, opposition to this law is purely taught by experience. Another parafiscal charge, which the farmers won't protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80434	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply, the next replica, dear colleague Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80435	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, so that today we heard in several debates, that the links between the Agricultural Chamber and the HGK, of course we are all skeptical of this law, given that the HGK was doing how it worked, where we mentioned, where the work of the former Vidosevic who was here was mentioned, on various accounts served by HGK as an ATM. The builders paid membership fees, however, there was nothing of it. I agree that it might be a good law, if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and farmers in this case would benefit, have some benefits from that law, and would really get a counterservice for what they pay, but unfortunately, nothing will happen in a good old tradition. You also mentioned the advisory service, of course that I share concerns with you, that now, we will have parallel systems and that we will pay who will do the same essentially the same thing and that in the advisory service we will pay the same people as now in the Agricultural Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80436	I would like to thank my colleague Habeku, reply from my colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80437	Thank you very much, colleague Habek, I agree with you, therefore, this and what you fellow Tomic have been saying is actually speaking from experience. HGK has existed for decades, what has it done specifically to improve the economic climate? It's a bad thing. The only benefit I know our businessmen have when they're co-financed at fairs. Now this government has the idea that HGK is doing economic diplomacy. So I ask them why we hire an organization that has already proven itself incompetent in Croatia, now it will be incompetent all over the world. What kind of economic diplomacy we're going to do with HGK, weak or bad if you ask me. And you're absolutely right, we have an advisory service, she's been doing her job, which means the Chamber, we pay and we pay the Chamber, we pay for the advisory service, we pay for the sea of people who all need to do the same job. In the end, it turns out that no one is doing it and that the balls will be transferred, the advisory service will say that the Chamber should do it, the Chamber will say that the advisory service should do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80438	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Križanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, we have always debated at one academic level, so I am very interested in your answer to my debate. You were talking about the HGK, the imposter. Well, wasn't it by introducing that the minister was the one who was giving money to function the much greater possibility of entanglement, when I control you, I give you money, I control you. The chamber collapsed after that, we have 1,000 members now, according to this new one, we should have about 105,000. So the work of the Chamber is lobbying, the work must be paid from something. Lobbing for smaller membership loans, lobbying for second-hand goods, lobbying in the EU, with which money should be financed by you, do you think the system that was so far introduced by your minister was better when he was giving money and controlling... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80440	I thank my colleague Križanić. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80441	Thank you. Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, here we are, discussing at academic level, and I'm glad that you brought those data out, because the very facts that you've presented, so that they're members of the HGK, that there are now only 1,000, and there should be 100,000 of them saying that our farmers don't see the benefits of that Chamber. I am absolutely for the chamber system that we understand each other, in that sense, if those who pay for membership in chambers had direct benefits from it. If you ask our businessmen how many they want to stay in HGK, I think the data would be very similar, so one hundred maybe. If you ask the craftsmen and the craftsman's chamber, the result would be something better, but not more radical. Well, then I ask you, what's the problem? The problem is in the Chamber, the Chamber must show itself on the market, as someone, as one institution, which, whose farmers want to be members. Same as the Chamber of Commerce, same as the craft chamber, then we'll have an efficient chamber system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80442	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you said you were afraid that the chamber was economical, did not meet its purpose. And I'm telling you, you don't have to be afraid, it's certainly so and nothing is important, except maybe certain crimes for which he was accused and which are now in the process, Mr. Nadan Vidosevic, may not be happening, but everything else about the fact that money is not being spent for any significant benefit. The announcements were big, economic chamber, we will collect more money from our own income, all of which will look better, and it has continued to drive in the old, and continues to drive a de facto politician at the head of the organization, it is a colleague from Vinkovac, Mr Burilovic, president of HDZ, former Vinkovacs, who replaced the desired Assembly chair with the chair of HGK president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80444	I thank my colleague Mara. You know very well what an economic chamber is, and what a agricultural chamber is. And here we are now discussing the agricultural chamber, colleague Maras, but well, these are your locks, so let's move on in the spirit of democracy, the answer, Mr. Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80445	Thank you very much. So I think it's inevitable, when we talk about one chamber, to turn off the others. So, the chamber with the constitution. And I thank my colleague Maras for removing my fear. So now I don't have to be afraid, now I'm sure and I've been safe before. So, our chambers need to be restructured, to be effective and to be at their users' service, because until they do, we're going to have this situation, 1,000 members, out of a possible 100,000. I repeat, and they say that repeating the mother of knowledge, when businessmen, farmers, citizens see the benefit of membership in a chamber or another institution, so something they pay for, so something they pay for, then it will pay and there will be no problem in terms such as the Swiss citizens decided to want to pay public radio-television subscription. Because they get a favor for their money. Like the Germans in the Bavarian or Austrian chambers, they get a favor for their money because if they didn't get it, politicians would certainly be under pressure to change the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80446	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80447	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the young men who are at the gallery. We are at a time when the government is trying to maintain elements of coercion and recently we have had opportunities to see different footage of different representatives in different editions. I think that these methods are unacceptable in terms of those who have been placed by them, or those who are trying in such a way to tighten the ruling majority and maintain their power. As far as this law itself is concerned, it is in the spirit of all the laws that a centralized bureaucratic apparatus has ever set. Croatian agriculture is collapsed, for peasants nothing concrete is done, milkmen send milk cows to slaughterhouses etc., etc. And what's the state doing? The state, a man would say, will help with a hunt or will say, we'll pay, we'll give subsidies by produced, not by squares because we had a situation that people apparently grew something to get incentives, and they didn't actually produce anything, etc. None, we thought maybe the exchange rate policy would change, maybe customs will protect the domestic economy, maybe unblock thousands, say, of the CAP farmers. Of course, we haven't seen any of it, the only thing we've seen is the coercion that you have to be a member of the agricultural chamber, and why? Well, Mr. Maras, you've tried to point out if anyone needs anything, he'll take it. If you and I belong in an organization that fits, then we'll be the first to join it. However, precisely because this agricultural chamber is of no use, which is why people did not join, and since the state saw that it was simply not interested in people, as most of them do, let's say the companies would not be a member of the Chamber of Commerce if they didn't have to or craftsmen. Well, the state jumped at it and said it would be mandatory now you'll all have to be there and you'll all have to pay. This is about taking away the freedom of choice, the state is taking away the freedom of choice systematically, the state is taking away the freedom of choice, let's say, in terms of vaccination, about Indian hemp and in fact any other way, in any other way where a man has freedom of choice, no, the state says you won't have, everything has to be bureaucratized, for everything you have to pay compensation. Here, I'll tell these young people who are watching us the next thought. Do you know you can't throw a hook into the sea and fish? I did it as a child, but you can't do it today. Why? Because some bureaucrat thought you had to have a fishing license to pay for it, I think 600 kuna, and you can only get it by 3 months. If you're late, if you want to get that license now, you can't buy your yearbook, you can just, I don't know, week, month etc. which is very expensive. Why do we have to pay so that I don't know, throw a hook into the sea, why do we have to pay to pick a mushroom in the woods? Why? Because the goal is total control. Privateization of resources, water, all given in concession and ultimately, the goal is to make you dependent on money, that without money you can't do anything. And why does it matter? Because then money will be your only deity. You'll only worship him because you'll need money all the time, and the system will say, OK, if you listen, if you do what you're told, you'll get money. And of course, most people are either blackmailed or bribed, actually agreeing to that kind of intellectual prostitution because when you think about prostitution most of you imagine classical prostitution where a woman or a man sells his body for money. However, this modern form of prostitution goes beyond that of antiquity and gets new elements, it's called intellectual prostitution where you prostitute your knowledge, your brains, your opinions, attitudes, etc. And you take on someone else for money. That intellectual prostitution is even worse than this classic one, and it's not talked about at school, and it's even worse because a prostitute classic after a certain job, she can think for herself, she can honestly tell her opinion that she has on any subject, while...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80448	Comrade Pernar, I'd like to ask you nicely, On the basis of Article 232, go back to the subject we are talking about today. [[Intruder Pernar: can only stand time then.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80449	Here,... I mean 10 seconds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going back on the subject, I'm just saying that HDZ policy is coerced, a must, you have to. Like in white, when you're the last one, you have to. Well, it's not only in white when you're last, but they want it to be that way. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80450	I thank my colleague Pernar for this final word. We have a final word on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State Mr. Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, honourable parliamentary representatives, here I thank you for today's debate in the context of the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which is part of the Ministry of Agriculture package of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the new agricultural policy and legislative reform in this section. The continuation is through the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on the OPG, the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service and this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which goes towards taking care of agricultural producers above all, putting into focus family farms as a fundamental sustainable future agricultural production in the Republic and the chamber itself through compulsory membership will be a partner, not only to the Ministry of Agriculture, but also to all other institutions, both in Croatia and the EU. Finally, I would say that we should not be afraid of a sustainable HPK that will certainly achieve results, a particular vacuum was in 2012 so far that this number of members is vulnerable to an unsustainable level and in the future through this law is being referred to a really stronger partnership of this institution, modelled by the very quality work of the chamber in the environment, a partnership towards the ministry and European institutions in agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80452	I thank the Secretary of State. We have one replica. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80453	Thank you very much. We really strongly oppose another mandatory chamber and the burden that our people will get with it, means in this case farmers. I have a feeling that there, as we said, will continue the series, so Gurilović, HDZ, Vinkovci, HGK, Dragec from Zagorje, Ranogaec candidate for HDZ Mayor, the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, and now we're just waiting for the third HDZ to sit at the head of this chamber you just founded and who will continue to live and I said suck the money of entrepreneurs, such as those of the trading companies in HGK, craftsmen's craftsmen, now this chamber will do so from farmers. And that's what we unfortunately have, which we shouldn't allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80454	Thank you, colleague Maras. Although I don't see what you're replicating him into, the secretary of state, but fine. Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Tugomir Majdak, the head of the sector at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Marina Faku, and the Head of Service, Dalibor Janda, for the reasons of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80455	We are now going to vote on the points discussed. First is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, first reading, P.Z. No. 317. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that with 76 votes for, 7 abstentions and 39 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. And now we move on to the selection of appointments and resolutions, I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the motions for decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80457	Thank you, Mr. President. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to decide on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Hrvoj Zekanovic is proposed and Dragica Rosčić is proposed as a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Pernar, be resolved on a personal request and, for a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. [[Intruder President: Please all, and then we will open the debate.]] Branimir Bunjac. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Vlaha Orepić, be resolved as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, are proposed. Ines Strenja-Linić. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ana Comparić Devčić is proposed and Marija Alfirev is proposed as a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Hrvoj Zekanovic is proposed and Ljubica Maksimčuk is proposed as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament Hrvoj Zekanovic be resolved and that Pero Ćosić be proposed as a member of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament Sonja Cikotic is proposed on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80458	I thank my colleague Sanader. He's registered for the discussion of SDP's Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Arsen Bauk's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80459	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be relatively brief, the SDP club will support these appointments, of course, but we would like to express our wish to complete the appointments of the outside members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I recently saw one of the proposed candidates in the city who had proposed to the Board of Design whose last name has four letters and asked me when it was going to be so I didn't know what to say, so I ask you to help us if I see Mr. Shex in the city next time what to say to him, so I appeal that the external members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are appointed as well as the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80460	Thank you. I suggest we vote unitedly. Do you all agree? If you agree, then I would like to vote on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative matters, please vote. I find that with 110 votes and 3 against the decision made as proposed by the board. That's when we came to the end of the vote, now we're going to take a stand in accordance with Article 249. Now let's go to another addition to the agenda because in the meantime we won, and not then we go to the choice and appointment and resolution first. So after that, we will have another addition to the agenda, so I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Committee on Elections and Designation and Administrative Affairs, a respected colleague, Silvan Hrelj, to explain the motion for a decision, and then I suggest that we have a united debate and we can vote unitedly if there are no objections, please join our colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80462	Thank you. The first decision is on the resolution and election and election of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Vlaho Orepić is hereby dismissed. A member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Miro Bulj. Second decision, decision on the election and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Žarko Tušek is elected member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. On 25 May 2018, the responsibilities of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament shall cease to be held by Darko Horvat for the term of office. The proposal for a third decision is a decision on the election and termination of the term of office of members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For the members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Sonja Cikotic and Ante Pranic are elected. On 9 June 2017, a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mato Frankovic because of the termination of the parliamentary term. On 1 October 2017, a member of the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Ivan Klarin for his term of office. The next decision is a decision on the election and termination of the term of office of member of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament is elected Bozo Petrov. On 31 March 2018, a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Miroslav Šimic for his term of office. Next decision, decision on the election and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament is elected Domagoj Mikulić. On 25 May 2018, a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Darko Horvat for his term of office. Next decision, decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. Sonja Cikotic is elected member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament. On 11 May 2017, a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Maro Kristic because of the termination of the parliamentary term. Next decision, decision on the election of the Vice-President and termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament. Sunčana Glavak is elected vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 25 May 2018, the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Darko Horvat for the term of office. Next decision, decision on the election and termination of the term of office of member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Robert Podolnjak. On 31 March 2018, a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Miroslav Šimic for his term of office. The next decision, resolution decision and election of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. A member of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy under the order of MP Milorad Batinic is hereby authorised. For a member of the National Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy under the legislator order, Nikola Grmoja shall be elected. And the last decision on the appointment of a member and alternate member and the termination of the term of office of members and alternate members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. As a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative, it is called Suncana Glavak. Sunčana Glavak, deputy member of the Croatian Parliament delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative, is named Stjepan Curaj. On 25 May 2018, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative ceased to act as Darko Horvat for a term of office. And finally on 10 May 2017, the deputy member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative stopped acting because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. Thank you very much. That'll be all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80463	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. I'm opening a debate. If no one answered, I'd close the debate and then they'd vote unitedly on all the points. So I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that in agreement with the 98th vote, we have made a decision as proposed by the board. We are now going to the selection, appointments and resolutions, so I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80465	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs suggests that a member of the Committee on Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, Stjepan Čuraj, be dismissed and that Mr Rezimir Varda be proposed as a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that Mr Tomislav Žagar be proposed as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, as he stopped acting as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament on 5 December 2017. Ivan Kovacic for his term of office One more. [[/Intruder president: That's all?]] It is proposed for members of the Committee on Stocks from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of science Dr. Slavko Perica and Mladen Šurbek. [[There's another one, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80466	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on all three proposals. I'm closing the debate, since no one's answering. And then I vote on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative affairs, please vote. I find that we have unanimously 89 votes in favour of making the decisions proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80467	We now move on to: - Selection, appointments and resolutions; I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for a Decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Committee for the Election, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of Governor of the CNB. Dr.sc is proposed for governor of the CNB. Boris Vujčić, as on 8 July 2018, the office of Governor of the CNB ceased to act as Dr. Boris Vujcic for stopping the term of office. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal The HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club, Liberal Democrats, the HDS Representatives' Club, the HSLS and the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, and the SDSS's Club of Representatives, proposed to the Governor Prof. Dr. Boris Vujcic. In accordance with the provisions of Article 80 of the Law, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament in that proposal requested the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget supported, most of the votes, the proposal of the Clubs of Representatives to appoint Prof. Dr. Boris Vujcic. The selection and appointment committee shall, at its 28th session held on 11 July, without discussion in accordance with Article 3(3) of the Law and Article 161(3). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, mostly votes 8 for and 2 abstentions, set out this motion for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80469	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80470	Furthermore, the decision to appoint the Deputy Governor and the 3 Vice Governors of the CNB and to suspend the term of office of Deputy Governor and 3 Vice Governors of the CNB. As Deputy Governor of the CNB, Dr.sc is proposed. Sandra Schvalig. HNB's Vice-Governors are proposed by Mr.sc. Slavko Teshia, Dr. Sc. Roman Šubic and Mr. Sc. Martina Drvar. The Deputy Governor and Vice Governor of the CNB shall be appointed to office on 18 July 2018. HNB Deputy Governor Relja Matic and Vice Governor of the CNB Tomislav Presjecan, Damir Odak and Vedrana Sosic end the term of office on 17 July 2018 if this is adopted The selection and appointment committee proposes a decision on the discharge of a member of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. [[Let's go all at once, let's go all at once.]] A member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Dr.sc, is proposed to be dismissed. Romana Jerkovic. A member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Marko Vučetić and Dr.sc is proposed as a member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Robert Dolnjak. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is proposed. Marko Vučetić and for a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Marko Sladoljev is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80471	That's it. So, by all these proposals, I'm opening a debate, we can talk about any order, please. No one's answering. Thank you very much. Thanks to the board president, I'm closing the debate and we'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80472	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.25 HOURS]] First we'll go to the choice and appointments and resolutions. So we are voting on the proposals for decisions of the Committee for the selection of appointments and administrative jobs. The debate is closed, firstly I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint and suspend the term of office of Governor of the CNB. Please engage and let's vote. I find that most of the votes 78 for, 19 abstentions and 6 votes against, a decision was made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Secondly, I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to appoint a deputy governor and three deputy governors of the CNB and to suspend the term of office of Deputy Governor and three deputy governors of the CNB, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 votes, 38 votes were against, the decision was made as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Let us now go back to the selection of appointments and resolutions on the proposals on which the debate is concluded, so first I would like to vote on the motion for a decision on the resolution of the members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for and 1 abstentions have been made by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Secondly, I am voting on a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous, 77 votes for the decision made, as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Legal Affairs. Third, I am voting on a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous, 77 votes for the decision made, as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Legal Affairs. Now let's re-election and appointments, but I'm going to need the chairman of the Committee on Elections and Appointments and Administrative Affairs of Antu Sanader to explain the proposal for another decision, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80474	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 105(1), point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Committee for the Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament shall submit to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Assembly for External Members is proposed: Dr. Science Sanja Barić, Dr. Science Anita Blažević, PhD.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80475	I'm opening a debate, and you have the material, and he was a clear colleague... Let's read it one more time, out of place, just for those who haven't heard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80476	Doctor of Science Sanja Barić, Doctor of Science Anita Blagojevic, Doctor of Science Ivan Koprić, Doctor of Science Frane Stanić and Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80477	Okay. I'm voting on a motion for a decision, a committee, actually opening a debate, first. Is there anyone here to discuss this? If not, I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Elections and Appointments and Administrative Affairs, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and one vote against, a decision has been made as proposed by the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80478	We move to the next item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 254. The applicant shall be a representative of colleague Robert Podolnjak on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the responsible Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government has delivered its opinion. I call upon the esteemed colleague of Mr. Robert Dolnjak to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. As a representative, I have proposed a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia. In May 2015, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia which formally became the eighth public University of Croatia. Until then, the University of North was formally a private university and if its founders were units of local self-government, towns of Varazdin and Koprivnica. Unlike some other public universities, such as University of Pula, University of Zadar or University of Slavonski Brod, in which cases the Croatian Assembly passed the Law on the establishment of a university, please only show the time, in which cases the Croatian Assembly passed the Law on the establishment of a university. In the case of the University of the North, the Republic of Croatia took over the founding rights from the former founders of local self-government units. It was stated in the draft law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the kind of state-of-the-art higher education institution. The University of North has two universities, in Varazdin and Koprivnica. The university headquarters is in Koprivnica. At the University Centre of Varazdin students can choose undergraduate studies of electrical engineering, direction automation, multimedia, design and application, production engineering, technical and economic logistics, construction and sisterhood and graduate studies of business economy in the direction of international trade, tourism and special studies of public relations. At the University Centre Koprivnica students can enroll in pre-graduate studies of business and management, journalism, media design and graduate packaging studies, sustainable mobility and logistics, journalism and media design. By adopting the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia took over the founding rights, but by law it did not, as in other cases of the establishment of a university through law, determine the headquarters of the university, or change the names of the university. When it comes to the name of the university, I believe, it is not appropriate and fully detracts from the name of all other public universities in the Republic of Croatia. Today it is in the Republic of Croatia 9 public universities, 9 last established by law is the University of Slavonski Brod and the names of these universities, are in order, University of Dubrovnik, University of Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek, University of Jurja Dobrile in Pula, University of Rijeka, University of Split, University of Zadar, University of Zagreb, University of Slavonski Brod and University of the North. I purposely pronounced this all the names of the university, all the public universities in the Republic of Croatia, to show that all these public universities in their name contain the name of the city in which the university is based, without exception, except the University of the North. The University of the North has been given a specific title because of the fact that the study programmes are carried out in 2 study centres in Varazdin and Kopirnica. But I am the name in Croatian or any foreign language, in no way determines where this university is located, because from the mark of the north, it cannot be determined where it could be. All other universities, even on their websites, have a clear mark of the city in which they are located and it is very easy to check how universities, for example the University of Zagreb has a www.unizg, University of Rijeka uniri, University of Split unist, then in Osijek, similarly, so all universities have that mark of the city, a shortcut to the city. The only North University doesn't have and can't have that mark. But now you'd probably think, if the shortcut of the website, the website of the union, in the first letter of the word north, was not, but the letter of N, unin was chosen, why? Because that's the first letter of the English word north. So, in the shortcut of the website you have the mark for the union as usual, but at the end of the last letter is the English letter for the north. One more little... One little specificity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I proposed the law to make the first amendment, which is to propose the name of the University of the North and to bring its name in line with the title of all other public universities in the Republic of Croatia, according to the university headquarters, and the university headquarters as the second key change of the bill would be in Varazdin. The law therefore proposes that the name of the University of the North be the University of Varazdin, based in Varazdin. This proposal is based on the fact that today a significantly higher number of students, the university studies at one of the study programmes carried out at the student centre in Varazdin compared to the number of students studying and on study programmes in Koprivnica. According to official data, which I have available, 2850 students studied at the University of the North, and of which 2460 students attended the study programmes at the study centre of Varazdin, and 381 studied programs in the study centre Koprivnica. These are official data from May 2015 when this Croatian Parliament decided by law on the transfer of founding rights to the Republic of Croatia. Even though I was looking for fresh data and I didn't get it from the university. However, I believe that these data are also relevant and that they have not changed significantly since the adoption of the law in 2015. As you can see, a far greater number of students are studying at the Varazdin Study Centre, a far larger number of programmes. Especially those programmes stemming from the former University of Varazdin, which came with a former media university based in Koprivnica. In fact, in most of the programs that are being implemented, today's University of the North, it has its own starting point at the Veleužin University in Varazdin. Try to imagine, that the University of Zagreb, which has some of its constituents, universities, in other cities in the Republic of Croatia, for example in Varazdin where FOI, or Geotechnical Faculty has no headquarters in the City of Zagreb, but that it has a seat in the town of Varazdin, in which there are far fewer students than in the capital. So that's the situation right now when it comes to the University of the North. So, for all the key reasons, this is the number of students, the study programs, the legacy of the University of Varazdin from which this university stems, they say, that the university seat should be in Varazdin and that it should be called the University of Varazdin as usual for all other universities in the Republic of Croatia. Let me also briefly refer to the arguments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was evident on this bill, believing that there is no reasonable reason for the proposed law. Three of the government's reasons are highlighted. It argues that the founder has the right to change the name and headquarters of the university, but points out that it is not necessary for the university to be named towards the city's headquarters and that in his name he has a seat name, that international practice on this issue is different. I personally can agree with that. The international practice is indeed different, you have very well known universities in the world that in their name do not have the name of the city or the place where their headquarters and you from the name Yale or Cambridge University, you cannot know in which city they are based these well-known universities. I did not even refer to international experiences or practices, I am talking exclusively about the title of public universities in the Republic of Croatia. And here, out of nine public universities, there's only one exception, and that's why I find it unwarranted. Another reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out is that changing the name of the University of the North would require additional financial and administrative resources. The University Center in Varazdin has absolutely all the spatial and other conditions and administrative conditions that it can be the headquarters of the university, so it is absolutely not controversial. And I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't think that any lower costs such as changing records or seals and registrations in a commercial court would be those costs that are thought of in its reasoning. These costs are so low that they decided that they would be paid by the city council council council and my proposal were members of the county assembly and officials if it were indeed a budgetary problem for the Republic of Croatia. The third reason put forward by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the decision of the founder of the institution to change the name and headquarters of the University of the North could be made by means of a decision by the Ministry of Science and Education, which by law exercises founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I personally disagree that I would not be able to accept such a view of the government that the Ministry of Science and Education could change the name and seat of the university by its decision, even though it has found its founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. In the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, there was also an opinion expressed at the Committee's point of view that the Ministry of Science could not do so by its decision, I ask only one logical question, which is that since universities in the Republic of Croatia are established by law, I have cited examples of some of the newer universities in Pula, Zadar, Slavonski Brod, in all of these laws, there are provisions on the name and seat of the university and, in my opinion, it is legal to interpret that what this Croatian Assembly has prescribed by law cannot be an act by any other body or government or ministry, if it is not authorised by word, the law changes the name of the university and its headquarters. I also looked at the statutes of certain public universities and there are no specific provisions on the change and appointment of universities and its seats, the statutes only state the provisions that are already contained in the law on the establishment of an individual university. And except only at the University of the North where you will find a provision in the statute that the decision to change the name and seat of the university makes the Senate 2/3 mostly with the previous consent of the founders. It's interesting that it's the only public university I've ever been able to verify has such a provision. None of the others established by the law of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, have such provisions. According to the Law on Institutions, it is logical that the founder determines the name of a public institution. And this is the case with all the laws which have established the name and headquarters of the university and those universities in their statutes have no provision of what, for example, the University of the North. This provision was obviously incorporated in the Statutes of 2015 or 2016 when it was in line with the Law on the Transfer of Fundamental Rights but, in my opinion, it is not about the decision of the Senate of the University, but exclusively about the body that adopts the law which is the founder and which the law alone can decide. In this regard, I consider the same argument that is pointed out on the board, but only on the board that the proposed law would violate Article 68. The Republic of Croatia, which guarantees the autonomy of the university, I don't think there's a single word on that. All the other laws governing the name and headquarters of the university, and I have stated only a few unequivocally speak for the authority of the founder of the university. And you don't have specific provisions even in the statutes that would talk about seeking the opinion of the Senate or any other body of the university, although I personally think that this opinion should be sought in the process of changing the name and seat of the university, but it is the right of the institution to decide. But I believe that it would be a good practice that should be prescribed to ask for an opinion or possibly to respect a particular proposal that would come from the university and its competent authorities. But I note, neither in the laws establishing individual public universities, nor in their statutes there are provisions that would specifically discuss changing the name and the university, nor the initiative, nor the consent. I have consulted the statutes of the University of Pula, in Zadar, so those who were later established by the law of this Croatian Parliament in this sense do not consider that there is a violation of the constitutional provision on the autonomy of the university. The university is autonomous in its scientific activity and, of course, in the formation of all its components and activities, and there is absolutely autonomy of the university. We're only talking about two components here, that's the name and that's the seat, and that doesn't endanger the autonomy of the university in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80480	I thank my esteemed colleague Robert Dolnjak for these reasons of the bill. We have several replicas of a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80481	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Podoljnjak, I don't think this is a vital question for students and employees of the University of the North. You yourself said that we have the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, Juraj Dobrila University in Pula, Lavoslav Ružička University in Vukovar, Nikola Tesla University in Gospić, and I think it is more important that we also discuss in the Assembly some topics that will ensure an increase in study programmes, greater investment in the field of science and art than a debate on what a university will call itself, especially if I do not understand this initiative from who it comes from. Is this your basic initiative or have you conducted some kind of research, a survey among all the employees at the University of the North, among all the students and based on their thinking, come to the conclusion that it is necessary to change the name of the university?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80482	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80483	Thank you. I allow you from Rijeka and it doesn't have to be an important topic. Believe me, it's important in my city and my county, so in Varazdin and Varazdin County. All the political officials who have declared this in the city and the mayor and the president of the city council absolutely support this idea. I think the only representatives of one party have expressed a negative opinion, that they were representatives of the CNS, no one else. So this initiative has the support of both the mayor and the city council and we consider it important for reasons which I have also cited, appropriate, fair and in line with the fact that today this university is actually a legal follower of the former University of Varazdin, which was extremely recognizable and would be logical that instead of the University of Varazdin, there is a university in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80484	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80485	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, a colleague may really matter to you, but topics should be a reform of education that this government does not implement, providing students with better standards, better programmes, etc. But that's not why I answered the line, but you mentioned several times the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod in 2015, which we brought here in the Croatian Parliament. I will remind you and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this law has not been implemented for the third year in a row and that this is probably a project of this government, the Slavonia Project where they show special concern for young people and the development of Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80486	I thank my esteemed colleague, Tomic. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80487	Thank you. I also followed up on the events around the University of Slavonski Brod, and if you looked at this bill that I submitted, you saw in it that I was leaving a questionnaire related to the University of Slavonski Brod at that moment there was still a serious opposition from the University of Osijek, the separation of certain components of that university that would become part of the University of Slavonski Brod. At that time, there was not even a decision of the Constitutional Court that was manifested about it. It was also a question of whether the law could thus affect the autonomy of the University of Osijek, so I followed that topic. So it was important for you in Slavonski Brod to establish a special university with study programs, it is also important in Varazdin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80488	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80489	Dear colleague Podolnjak. Well, I don't agree with you that the name of the University of the North is not appropriate or that it's an inappropriate name. In fact, if we look at it from another perspective, that's the point, the University of the North can send a different message, it can send a message that the north has joined, that it has a very university and that they actually want students to be satisfied, to be in the first place, not where the seat is and what it's called. But I would just remind you, you're a member of the Most, MOST has been in power for 2 years, I don't remember you ever raised the question of increasing the funds that are allocated from the state budget to the University of the North, namely, 23 million kuna each year, which is half as much as the next university that gets over 40 million, and has a third of students less than the University of the North.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80490	I thank my colleague, Habek. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80491	Thank you. The University of the North was, of course, difficult to fight for a place under the sun, there were great resistances and to be established and to become, not to start as a private university, but to become a public university and to have been severe labor pains in 2015. However, the next step is of course to get the deserved part of this budget cake that is intended for science and higher education and I agree that at this point it is less for the University of the North by the number of students than it is for some other university. I agree that this is extremely important, but I think it's not just a cosmetic change, that the university gets another name that belongs to it and, of course, a seat with it together. That's no small reason, he never was. I'm sure not for the Varazdins.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80492	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80493	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Podolnjak. I want to show myself around, or replicate you around this piece that you think the name of the university is inappropriate, I don't think those are correct words, it's something like that said by Mr. Habek. There are much more important things than where the university will be located and what is its name, but I think that with this name north, immediately at the establishment, means not when the state took over ownership stakes, but when the towns of Varazdin and Koprivnica founded the University of the North was sent a message that it wanted to join that northern Croatia, the SZ and that it remains open to other cities to join eventually that university and I think that the name of the university is quite appropriate and that this belongs to the small politics that you are looking for, perhaps to be called the South and that the headquarters in Metkovic would probably not have any objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80494	I thank my colleague, Felak. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80495	I'm sorry if you feel that as a political suggestion. I said the figures clearly show where most of the study programs take place and where the highest number of students are. It's fair and logical to have a university headquarters there, whatever you consider a political proposal, he's not. According to the number of students, as you have 80% of the students in the town of Varazdin, where this university, a very recognizable university in Varazdin, has actually emerged, it is logical and just to have the university headquarters there, and we know actually the way that the university was created by joining the university and the media university, who had a license, etc. but we will not burden the pay phone of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80496	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Downhill. From the perspective of Slavonia when you see that there is a Law on the University of Slavonski Brod that does not exist, there is a de jure, but defacto does not exist. This problem seems trivial to us. So the fact is that the University of the North exists, that works, that students are educated, etc. I think we should talk about it, we should also talk about the standard of students, the quality of teaching, the money we spend on universities like you mentioned before. What I am particularly concerned about is the ratings of our university in international frameworks, so within the EU, etc. So is the seat in Varazdin, Koprivnica, I don't know, it's me, I say from Slavonca's perspective trivial because we have the law on the University of Slavonski Brod, the decision of the Constitutional Court was made in favour of the implementation of this law that is not further implemented. Slavonski Brod still, defacto University doesn't have, has only law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80498	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80499	I agree with you that the problem with law enforcement is and it is not good, so one law passed by the Croatian Parliament, but you can clearly see that there are specific interests of each university and that one university obviously cannot easily accept that, without certain consent, you cannot establish another university, single out a particular university, a particular component that will become part of another university. Therefore, you clearly point out that there may be some particular interests that are not related to the adoption of the law. In particular, I would say that there are a lot of these particular interests at the University of the North as well, but I know and I have been contacted by a lot of university employees who, of course, can't speak publicly, for of course known reasons, which they don't even want to object to the leadership of the university, and then they're actually forced to keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80500	Thank you, Mr. Podolnjak, I'd like you to keep an eye out for me in time. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, next replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Podolnjak, I would also refer briefly to the part of your presentation in which you spoke about the appropriateness of the name of the University of the North, and somehow it seems to me to be one of your starting themes when you are talking about the need for a change of name. In fact, the appropriateness of the title, anything, and the universities in the North can be viewed from different perspectives. So we can look from your perspective at what I accept, I can accept where you think the name is inappropriate because it simply does not comply with the tradition of Croatian where we have the eighth university called different from these first eight, so it does not contain the seat name and it is not simply in line with the tradition of Croatian higher education. I could say that here is the name of the University of the North as the regional university that it gathers, so it works in the area of the region of North II, the town of Koprivnica and Varazdin, it seems very convenient and interesting to me and whether it is perhaps not an advantage and speciality of the University of the North in the Croatian area of higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80502	Thank you, colleague Bedekovic. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80503	I allow you to see it from another perspective, but I am truly warned by many employees that this university has a very unrecognizable name. At the end of its mission, it highlights this strengthening of science in northwestern Croatia. So he says in the area of northwestern Croatia not north, not imaginary north, but they have made it very clear that they are referring to northwestern Croatia. So this tells you that the name north doesn't make sense at least in accordance with the statutes, so the objectives and missions of that university. So we stay with that university with that name being absolutely unrecognizable, many tell me when they come abroad and when they say where they come from, that everyone asks them and where they are. Of course I can't know where the University of North is, University of North. And where is that? Of course it's not recognizable. People would like it to be a recognizable name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80504	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80505	Comrade Podolnjak, you have devoted most of your exposure to the name by citing numerous examples. But that's why I reported a replica among the last ones. In your presentation you did not mention anywhere that the name of the university could be called after our famous Varazdinac Ivan Kukuljevic Sakcinski. He was born in Varazdin, 29th May 1816, a Croatian historian, writer and politician, founder of archaeological science in Croatia, has advocated that the Croatian language be introduced as an official language in schools, public institutions and on his proposal as a parliamentary representative, the Croatian Parliament concluded in 1847 on the introduction of the Croatian language as an official language. So I think it must be one of the most famous people in the Varazdin area who was born in Varazdin, so let's just say from the proposal if today and tomorrow go into a change of name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80506	Thank you, fellow Striker. Come in, buddy Polnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80507	Dear fellow Strick, you are in a position as part of the parliamentary majority to propose in this sense and what you have now said, I will support you, in any case, if this proposal is currently to you, the parliamentary majority is not acceptable because it has been proposed by someone from the opposition, I can understand it. I would be pleased if you would have suggested it, or your club, at the end of 2015, one of your colleagues and a representative of the HDZ also suggested parallel to the proposal of the government law, a bill which the University of the North should have based in Varazdin. So parallelly, the law was proposed and your colleagues from HDZ, and your president of the city council just drew attention that you were the first to propose the headquarters of the University of Varazdin. So you absolutely have your hands open.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80508	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. Well, colleague Podolnjak, I also don't think it's necessary for this change of name as regards visibility, there's a Massachusetts Institute of Technology or MIT that covers a much larger area than the University of the North, so I don't think it's a problem of visibility in that case. But I wouldn't talk about it right now, I don't have much time, but I'd say I agree with one thing with you and that's about the government's argument. I don't think there's any basis for the ministry's decision to change the name of the university that was founded by law. By reference to Article 49, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The law on scientific activity, public universities are established by law and if the law defines a name as here it is, it cannot be changed by a government decision. It is that, according to the Law on Institutions, certain issues can be regulated by acts of other bodies, but it cannot go counter-legislative, it cannot go counter to what is explicitly stated in the law, which is the name of the university, so I think the ministry's legal service should work on those arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80510	Thank you. Answer, comrade Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80511	Here, I thank you, I am pleased that we agree on this, although if you look, if the Government has such a position, given the opinions of all its legal services at its disposal, if they think they can do so, then we will very soon if this bill is not adopted in the Croatian Parliament, then we will ask the competent minister when she, by her decision, changes the name and headquarters of the university if the Government's opinion that she can do so with her own decision. And since Ms. Minister is right from our city, from the city of Varazdin, then there will be a reason more to ask her when she intends to make that decision and, of course, to provide those small financial resources that need to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, so we will see her answer then. So I will respect what the government has stated, because they are officially behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80512	Thank you, colleague Podolnjak, for this answer. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you very much. Vlad's representative, does he want to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Mario Habek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80513	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, which has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by fellow Robert Podolnjak, acting on 14 December 2017, for several reasons for us in the SDP, inadmissible. It is evident that this is about the procedural and formal reasons for the non-acceptability of the autonomy proposal and the independence of the decision on its structure and the action of each public university are guaranteed in Article 68. The Constitution of the It's clearly said on several occasions over the past few months. What I particularly wish to emphasise is that in the mandate of the SDP government headed by Zoran Milanovic, a Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia was passed. I am particularly proud of this law without any delay to say that I have personally succeeded in ensuring stability and sustainability of funding from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia through my initiative, action, lobbying at local and national level, and for the North. In addition, in the middle of a quality university in northern Croatia, which provides young people with quality education, it is a great help to their parents. Since the cost of studying in Zagreb is quite high, and unfortunately, not all parents can financially enable their children to study in Zagreb, with the establishment of the University of Varazdin and Koprivnica, the opportunity for young people, with less cost of transporting housing and general life, and with less financial burden on parents to school closer to their homes. We are talking about over 3,000 students at the University of the North, 3000 young people, mostly from northern Croatia, 3000 young people with a desire to further improve and education in order to contribute to society, but the question is, where would some of them have ended up not getting a chance to study in Varazdin or Copirnica? This should also be added to 200 employees at the University of the North from which competent professional staff comes out for the needs of the real economy and the health system. Final students at the University of the North are desirable and hired experts because of the high level and breadth of adopted knowledge and competences ready for independent and creative work in the profession. That this is the case, says the data, that almost everyone in November after completing their studies is hired and found a job in the profession within a very short period of time. So they don't spend years and years at the Employment Service, waiting for a job opportunity in the profession. If other studies were to consider and think as at the University of the North, perhaps the number of unemployed at the Employment Service, especially young people, would be smaller after completion. Despite the excellent results that the University achieves, the high employment rate, completed students, the great interest of students, the quality program adapted to the market and work and the needs of the economy, the University of North receives at least money from all universities in Croatia, and the state supports it from almost double the amount of the next university. To repeat the University of the North gets 23 million kuna per year for 3,000 students, and the next university in a row, it gets over 40 million kuna per year for 2,000 students. So for a third less students, he gets twice as much money. And instead of making sure that this illogicality is corrected, to make sure that the University of the North provides even better conditions for work, to enable young people to have better and quality education and education, after which they will not have to go after bread with their bellies, but employers in Croatia will fight for them. Instead of allowing parents to educate their children, without having to eat their entire home budget and without having to raise loans, we worry and conduct discussions, where they will be the headquarters of the University, in Varazdin or Koprivnica. The University of the North was created as the first regional university in Croatia to operate in 2 cities. The logic of things is that the name of such a persistent university cannot be attached to one city, therefore the name of the University of the North is very well accepted in both environments. Cosmetic procedures such as changing the name and headquarters of the University of the North will in no way bring improvement to that institution. What parliamentarians from the north must advocate and fight for is to ensure better working conditions for the young institution, a higher amount of funding from the state budget. I want future debates in the parliament, around the University of the North to lead to investment in the University of the North, approval of capital investments and the development of human resources. Because as long as we conduct the debate, where we should be the centre of the university and deal with cosmetic procedures, our young will continue to leave Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80514	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Habek. We have, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80515	Thank you. Here, my fellow respected representative, Habek, was with me at the meeting of the City Council of Varazdin, was a colleague of the Strajčak, and I think he was also a colleague of Križanić, but, therefore, at the session of the city council, the solemn session, on the day of the city of 6.12. Last year, when the president of the city council, Mr. Habian, said in his speech and taking part in the program and for the development of higher education in the town of Varazdin, that he would advocate that the city of Varazdin be the headquarters of the university. It was welcomed by the acclaiming of all present in the hall at the session. This tells how important it is for our citizens in the city and in the county and after that proposal, following this proposal that was welcomed by the acclaim I proposed the bill. Not before, after that. I thus do not dispute in any way what is said to be advocating the equality of the University of the North with all other public universities in the Republic of Croatia in the financing of its activities. And I finally have to say one more time because your first argument was that you didn't actually support the bill on behalf of the club because it would be contrary to the principle of university autonomy and Article 68. The Constitution of the Absolutely, and I think that's what I said in my opening statement, there's no objection that it's a violation of university autonomy. I have contributed to this and other laws establishing public universities, therefore, the newer universities in Croatia and Pula and in Zadar and Slavonski Brod, where the law provides for the name of the university and its headquarters and where you have no specific provisions in the statute, or in the statute which would indicate that in that procedure changes to the name given by the founder of the Republic of Croatia there are provisions that would in any way involve any body of the university, by the logic of the things of the Senate, that, in that sense, or that such a decision proposes or to give a certain opinion or something third. Only at the University of the North you have a provision in the Statute that the Senate of the University decides to change the name and headquarters of the University 2/3 mostly with previous consent with the Founder. It is interesting that you do not have such provisions in any other public university statute. I'm saying this because there's a secretary of state here. I suppose you had to give consent to the university statutes because the founder, as a rule, must give consent or prior consent. So, here is a very unusual, very unusual provision, that it exists in all other statutes or in the provisions of the law in which it is amended, therefore, with the consent of the higher university, therefore, universities, then, of course, such a provision would be incorporated both in this Law and in the Law on the acquisition of founding rights. So, you do not have such provisions in any other law, nor in any other statute, and therefore I believe that the objection to the unconstitutional nature of this bill is not justified because if we had respected it, you would never be able to change the name of the University of the North, but would actually do so exclusively to the university, unlike all other public universities where we are by law, this Croatian Parliament has named it. Thus, such an exception simply could not be in accordance with the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80516	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. We have one replica, dear colleague Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80517	Dear colleague Podolnjak, when you talk about the city council, OK, I agree that the city council has the right to request and support your proposal, initiative, etc. But I wonder if you asked people who run North University, employees of North University, if they, you once told me about talking to some people who wouldn't want to make a public statement. But did you ask? As I recall in our local media, the North University leadership has made it clear and loud that it disagrees with your proposal, that they are satisfied with the name that is, that they are satisfied with the seat in Koprivnica and that they see absolutely no problem there. Here, I call you now, you can now respond to the replica, I invite you to follow your proposal to amend and supplement the law to increase the annual funds allocated from the state budget to the University of the North and I will support you in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80518	Thank you. Dear colleague Podolnjak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80519	When it comes to funds, of course that's what we have to regulate with the state budget and that's undeniable, we absolutely agree, and I believe that we will all stand for it together. But it was obviously wrong in 2015 after the private university became public. So, from the very beginning, he didn't get the part of the funding in the Ministry of Science's budget. As a result, there were many resistances to the establishment, not the establishment, but the conversion of this private university to the public. And it's not just about the city council as well as you know. There were several hundred of the most prominent people in the town of Varazdin and Varazdin County. A few hundred people. And the proposal tabled just by the president of the city council was welcomed by the acclaim. So, and I said on that basis I also proposed this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80520	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. The gallery was joined by students and pupils of Oroslavlje elementary school with their teachers and teachers, so I welcome them this way. Give it up! We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80521	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Dolnjak for following the work of the president of the City Council of Varazdin and supporting him. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The space of Croatian Zagorje, Međimurje, Podravina, Prigorje, which we also call the Croatian north, has been considered one of the most developed parts of Croatia since ancient times. The strong development of craftsmanship, economy, culture and art would certainly not exist without a developed education system. That's what the following historical facts are for. The first public gymnasium and continental part of Croatia was opened in Lepoglav in 1503, which worked until 1637. It is closed because in Varazdin in 1636 it began with the work of the Jesuit High School, whose continuity today continues in the Ith High School of Varazdin as one of the oldest and most quality secondary schools in Croatia. In view of the fact that in the 17th century, the leprechaun pavilions founded a philosophy study, recognised even by Pope Clemen X, and that in the 18th century the act of Mary Teresa was founded a political-camera study in Varazdin as the predecessor of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, and that in the 1860s, the beginning of the work of the Royal-Economic and Forest University was recorded as the oldest agricultural and forestry university in Southeastern Europe without exaggeration, it can be said that in Zagreb, the north of Croatia is the cradle of Croatian higher education. In addition to these historical facts in favour of the establishment of the University of the North, the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy were also stated. One of the main objectives of the EU's Europe 2020 strategic document is to reach 40% of higher education in the population by 30 to 34 years by 2020. The Republic of Croatia has set a goal by 2020 to reach 35 highly educated in the population. According to the 2011 census, the Republic of Croatia had 26% higher education in this indicator and northern Croatian counties on average 17%, indicating that the north of Croatia is lag behind with the average of the rest of the Republic. In addition to the existing schools of the University of Zagreb, the Faculty of Informatics and the Faculty of Geotechnical Engineering should now be key to achieving this goal. The University of the North has two university centers and it has Varazdin and Koprivnica. In 2015, students at the University Centre of Varazdin were able to select Postgraduate Studies Elektrotechnics direction Automatization, Multimedia, Design and Application, Production Engineering, Technical and Economic Logistics, Construction and Sisterry and graduate studies Business Economics, Directions International Trade and Tourism and Public Relations. At the University Centre Koprivnica students were able to enroll in Postgraduate Studies Business and Management, Press and Media Design and the degree studies of Ambalaža, Sustainable Mobility and Logistics, Press and Media Design. As of this year, a new study has been launched at the University Center in Varazdin Pre-graduate professional study of the physiotherapy programme and Mezatronics and three graduate university studies programmes from the STEN area of Engineering, Construction and Multimedia. According to official data at the time when the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia that was in May 2015 at the University of the North studied 2841 students of which 2460 or 86% at study programmes at the University of Varazdin and 381 or 14 at the study programmes at the Koprivnica Study Centre. Given the rich historical heritage, strategic goals and needs of the economy, we consider it logical that the north of Croatia has its own university to be its headquarters in Varazdin and to be called the University of the North. However, we find it inappropriate that the addresses of the institution's headquarters, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia, are changed by amendments to the law. If we were to run this model, we would be in a position to discuss changes to the 200-day address of the institutions or 200-year-old legal proposals in the Parliament. We don't think there's any need for this kind of change of law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia clearly states that it is the founder of the University of the North Republic of Croatia and that the rights and responsibilities of founders on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on institutions is prescribed that the institution may change the name and seat only by decision of the founder of the institution. We therefore propose that the name of the University of the North remain unchanged because under that name it has become recognizable and that the Senate of the University proposes a change of seat for the benefit of Varazdin. This decision, however, ends in the name of the founders, is made by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. From the pre-mentioned legal provisions, it is clear that there are mechanisms for changing the seat and that there is no need to adopt amendments to the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia and that the HDZ Club will not support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80522	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Angel Stricak. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Podolnjak, Madam Secretary of State. I'm going to go too, I was hoping, or I thought there'd be a little more MPs in the Parliament, so I had to say a few sentences the same thing about historical separation and how it even happened to the University of the North. We who sit here almost all know it, but still allow me to be serious about a few sentences and about the overture itself. So in Varazdin for many years they have shared some colleges that are part of Zagreb University, and the University of the North is the youngest Croatian university, now we have the University of Slavonski Brod which is not yet working for the truth. So let me say a few words about development itself. On 17 May 2001 at the Elektrostrojar School in Varazdin, with the consent of the Ministry of Science, a professional study of electrical engineering was founded, i.e. a high school with the right of the public who acted in that secondary school. After the first year of successful work, a sufficient number of enrolled students and the employment of the first teachers with the necessary elections for teaching, the conditions for the establishment and extension of that high school to an independent institution have been met. So on the basis of the permission of the Ministry of Science, technology on 19 October 2002 established an institution called the High Electrical School with then one study program of electrical engineering. 2003 and '4. Two new study programmes have been developed in the technical field of manufacturing engineering and multimedia since the design and application of the conditions for higher school to implement 3 different study programmes, legal provisions are made to take place after obtaining a permit from the restoring Ministry of the City of Varazdin at a session of 8 November 2005 on the establishment of a new higher education institution called Veleučište in Varazdin. The establishment continues to develop in the coming years with regard to new study programmes in the field of technical science, technical and economic logistics and construction, as well as the vocational study of the sisterhood. Looking back on the development of higher education in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, urban county heads, administration of the institution and teachers, they recognize that the existing form of an institution is a university with inadequate development needs and aspirations of the region, i.e. it is very limited on the autonomy of study programmes, but there is a large and unfair gap in the development of higher education of Croatia's SZ in relation to other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The University of North, therefore, was created by the association of the Veleučite University of Varazdin, a media university on 22 January 2014. At the moment of joining the University of Varazdin, only two people who did not know about it were studying at the time of that accession in Varazdin, while the media university in Koprivnica attended 75 students. The Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, which took effect in 18.6.2015, so far established founders, the City of Varazdin and the City of Koprivnica cease to be founders of the University of the North and founder of the station of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founder on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The University of North, we have already heard, represents 2 university centers, the University Centre Koprivnica and the University Center Varazdin. The University of the North with today performs 15 study programs divided into 13 shares, I will not read them, you have heard them before, at the mentioned departments within the University Centre of Varazdin currently actively studying 2307 students, and Koprivnica University Centre is active 624 students. In its announcement, in the academic year 2018/'19. A number of new undergraduate and graduate university studies were launched, which I will also not read, as well as a doctoral study, media and communication. Thus, following the historical cross-section of the development of this university, but the number of students within the individual university centre, it is logical and normal for the North University to be in the cultural, political, educational and economic centre of the northern region of Varazdin. It's true, Mr. Podolnjak, I said it at that session just like Mr. Habyan did, and I'm saying it today. It's also logical because almost 85% of students are now studying in Varazdin. However, the Act transposing the founding rights of the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the rights and duties arising from this law on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education in accordance with the Law on Institutions, and the University of the North is a public institution. It shall be prescribed if the institution carries out its activities in several places, its headquarters shall be the place of establishment in which the business authority is established. It is further prescribed that the institution may change the name, so the seat is only by decision of the founder of the institution. I'm sorry there's no Ms. Secretary of State here, otherwise our Varazdin, I have a lot to say to her, but now you'll probably be able to pass on my views to her, and since I am a legalist and believe in the government's explanation of what I read, then it's clear and clear that all the elements for changing the university's headquarters are fulfilled because there are 80 to 85% of the study departments in the University Center of Varazdin and there are 85% of the students there. In both places, there is a headquarters of a business body. That is why I call on Ms. Minister to initiate in accordance with the legal powers the process of changing the seat of the university because it does not require a change of law, as we have heard in the government's reasoning. What my colleague Falcon said was probably his personal opinion. As regards the change of name, since the teaching is carried out in 2 university centres, Varazdin and Koprivnica, and the possibility of joining other centres such as Čakovec and Križevci is not necessary in such cases or the usual practice that the name must be identical with the name of the seat. If, for some other important reasons, the need to change the name of the university to the University of Varazdin, based in Varazdin, will surely be suggested over the universities by the Minister, and it will, in accordance with the pre-mentioned legal powers, do so. Again, it is not necessary to amend the law because it is already regulated by the existing law on the University of the North, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law. However, I would like to say to a respected minister, as Varazdinka, that for another extremely important problem for the development of our University of the North, which has already been mentioned by counterpart Habek. In fact, the University of the North gets twice as much budget from the last one in a row, and much less than everyone else, they build their own infrastructure and it's hard for them. It's our job to help them, they get too little. I'll read you the information on the appropriations for 2018. University of Zagreb – a billion and 328 million, University of Rijeka – 292 million, University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek – 297 million, University of Split – 288 million, University of Zadar – 106 million, University of Dubrovnik – 41 million, University of Josip Juraj Dobrila in Pula – 45 million, University of North – 22 million. He has already told counterpart Habek that the University of Pula has fewer students, the University of Dubrovnik has fewer students than the University of Varazdin, and the University of Pula, which gets double, and then there are more than twice as many students as the University of Varazdin. I therefore call on Ms. Minister, the barrage, to raise the budgets seriously to make the quality of studies at this young university as best and as good as possible. She can do it with her authority, and my smallness and everyone here present representatives of the north will surely be very happy to support it. By further strengthening this university along with the existing members of the Zagreb University, which operates in Varazdin, we want 10 thousand students to study in Varazdin, making Varazdin a serious and respectable university in northern Croatia, which is expected for two to three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80524	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić. Replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80525	Thank you very much. Comrade Križanić, I don't think we understand each other. So what I'm saying is that the name of a university that's defined by law can only be changed by law. However, the North University headquarters is not defined by law, which means that it does not have to be amended by law, just to clarify that part. And that part about the seat was not at all questionable, but this part about the name. So the name can only be changed by law, I think that part is quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80526	Thank you. Answer, colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80527	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for his clarification. I didn't follow you well then, and I didn't realize. We got it all wrong. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80528	Thank you. Next replica, dear fellow Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80529	Thank you very much. My colleague Križanić, I'd like to rely only on this financial exposure of yours, and I'd like to give you some information. Namely, the lowest average salary in the Republic of Croatia is exactly, unfortunately, in Varazdin County. The perception of the wider public is that it is a rich and advanced end, which is most likely and true. However, with the biggest exports, but this is the price of the lowest salaries and for this very reason I appeal and join your appeal to make far higher funds for the work of the University of the North. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80530	Thank you. Here's my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80531	Excuse me. Thank you, fellow Striker, for saying this. Surely, the north of Croatia is not only perceived, but the north of Croatia and is the engine of this country's engine and locomotive, and surely this is, I dare say, embarrassing. If the University of Varazdin receives such funds it is certain that they cannot build infrastructure with such resources, it is certain that they cannot pay their teachers in quality, sure that the quality of teachers cannot be at such a level as they should and should deserve northern Croatia, and that we have the lowest wages, which we have such a structure of industry, but what will change in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80532	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam State Secretary, fellow few MPs, as unfortunately is very often on topics from the field of education, but here is the situation, such is the obvious time and time of debate. Anyway, the first thing I would point out about North University is that it's a positive story. So part of that data is already highlighted, so we have over 3,000 students studying there. Indicators are quality, the number of scientific papers is growing, the number of teachers in scientific and teaching titles and what I would particularly point out, means as many as 86% of the students of this university study in the STEN area, means in the natural and technical sciences that we all agree on, and so it is stated in our strategic documents that they are a priority in the development of this country, so I think that North University is an institution, the way it works qualityly, that it progresses quickly in the right direction and that it should certainly be supported. That part I don't think is questionable and I certainly support the University of the North and as an institution and also all these efforts to further strengthen it. Now, what's not good about this whole story, though, we've already mentioned some of it, and that's the way, that's the procedure in which it got its legal status, I'm not going to say in which it was actually founded, although it's a legal-technical term, but I think we need to specify exactly the way it got its current status. So unfortunately, from the overall context of the adoption of this Law, one of the laws with the least articles probably in the history of the Croatian Parliament, it is evident that the whole procedure and way of relations between the state then, the government of the SDP government towards this university was not well designed. So this is seen from the very way the law is passed, and from this budget part, it means, financing, etc. So unfortunately, it is very well seen that the then SDP government did not have one strategic thinking towards the development of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, it did not look long-term, among other things, at this very needs of the north and northwest of Croatia for a high school institution and unfortunately, the consequences of this are still felt today. Let's say, that's what and the way things shouldn't be done. When working and establishing higher education institutions, scientific institutions, this should be part of a broader strategy, it should be very well designed and all parameters should be defined. So it's not enough to start a university and throw it in the water and let it exist. So we also need to provide all these accompanying elements, such as infrastructure, teachers and all possible resources, so that it can really function and accomplish its task. I think northwestern Croatia needs a university. I think it was shown in this debate. Some of the data that I'm not sure are highlighted is that this part of Croatia has a lower percentage than the average of Croatia has a lower percentage of higher education than the average of Croatia, I think is 10%, and the average is around 17 and these are all indications that we need the university. I'm just sorry that the government at the time didn't anticipate all these steps to further strengthen this university, so we're in that position now that we need to discuss it. But what you would touch, which is a broader subject, and that is a general question of the strategic thinking of our education system. So we in the higher education system have a network of institutions that was passed back in 2011 means seven years ago and which is simply now largely... /The speaker speaks English./... what you would say, which is simply not up-to-date and is not modern. Many things have changed since then, among other things new universities have been established for these or those reasons, and of course it is something to work on. So we need to design a network of higher education institutions that reflects the current needs of the labour market, but also keeps some of the state priorities in the future. So if you're just focusing on what the situation is like now and the needs that are now without any long-term thinking or any vision of the system we want, of course you're not going anywhere, but you're going to keep standing in place. And I think that there is a great responsibility for all of us in the Croatian Parliament and state institutions in order to actually promote such a systematic approach. We in Croatia have more strategic documents in various areas, and the educational roof document is a 2014 strategy. It has been talked about a lot, compliance of the rules with the strategy, the strategy with the regulations, etc., etc. But what I think, again, is that this is my personal opinion, that this strategy has shown many difficulties in its implementation in the last four years and that definitely one thing to think about, which is redefine it. So it turned out to be very large, it proved to be very difficult to implement all its elements because it would require hundreds of billions of kunas and it proved that there was a lot of great administration and invention of any additional institutions, etc., etc. the awakening of an entire system for which I am not sure that there is a clearly defined purpose. So I think that what we're definitely going to have to think about in the long term is that we define the entire education system in a new, more modern way at all levels than the basic strategic documents and legal framework, since we have a fundamental law on scientific activity and higher education that was passed 15 years ago, which has changed I don't know how many times and of course there is a need for a new thinking on how to improve the system. What, however, would not be good for the system and these changes to be motivated by certain particular interests of certain groups. For example, to agree on some parties or some parts of some parties with some tycoons leads to redefining educational institutions, ways of forming them, etc. What we've seen, unfortunately, in the past. It would also not be good if, again, the particular interests of some other groups were again a system that decided to influence it and lead to changes in procedures etc., etc. I think that institutions should be guarded, existing institutions that we have, among other things I would point out to the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, we should safeguard the autonomy of these institutions to a large extent and we should give them that role they play. Here I mentioned the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development as just one of those roof institutions that should define certain elements of higher education and science policy in the Republic of Croatia. I think that these institutions should be protected, that we should give them more strength, that we should work to ensure that they act in synergy and coordination with the relevant ministry, that there are no contradictions and conflicts and that things are resolved through dialogue and agreement. So what's also not good is that, and it's happened in the last few years that the higher education system is made by revote. It's possible, it's a catalogue where it's legally allowed, it might and may be consistent with some concepts of democracy, but for the whole atmosphere in society I don't think it's good. I think we need to develop dialogue, that ministries, national councils, universities, high schools should cooperate with each other in defining education policy and defining all the strategic documents that will then be adopted. So we wouldn't have situations if some were considered neglected, that some felt there wasn't enough funding like the University of the North, etc. Mostly to conclude, I think the University of the North is a good story, I don't think there's a need to change the name that I'm not going to go into, I'm not informed enough, I really think, and as you said, it's not in Parliament's jurisdiction, so this way I wouldn't want to, but I think we should generally think about a new strategic and systematic approach to our education system, that we should define what our objectives are in some time of 10, 20 to 30 years, and that we should therefore bring our key documents from which it will take over both the law and the sublaws and everything that regulates our education system so that it will be better for the benefit of the entire society and our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80534	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Replica, dear fellow Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80535	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're in your debate, and I think you're really expert on this, so I'm glad that the University of the North is doing well and that it needs to be helped anyway. However, you stated that the only thing that may be in your opinion is a questionable way of setting up. I will only mention that in 2015 when the University of the North was founded there were three legislative proposals in the procedure and this proposal by the then government, i.e. Proposal for a law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, following the proposal for a law on the establishment of the University of the North then of Natalija Martinčević and then representatives of Sunčana Glavak on behalf of the HDZ, it was precisely a proposal for HDZ to go to headquarters in Varazdin, to call the University of the North and to have four centres in Čakovec, Varazdin, Križevci and Koprivnica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80536	Thank you. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80537	Thank you very much. So I tell my colleague about the procedure itself, it's good that there were more suggestions and I'm glad he was thinking about this policing that you listed. I think it's generally a positive story, it's in line with the principle of subsidiarity, among other things, that as much of the activities that can be at the local level as possible and that part is quite fine. What I refer to is not so much, but the way I think about it, okay, now we've started a university and that's it. So what we need and that's the question of this systematic and long-term thinking is to figure out what to do with it further, in which direction to direct it and that the state gives all the infrastructure that it needs to be possible. And that part I don't think was well designed then and that's what we have to work on now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80538	Thank you for your response. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80539	Thank you very much. I'll look back on that part of your presentation in which you spoke about the very procedure of setting up the University of the North and I'd say it should actually serve as one, let's give it a conditional lesson to all of us when establishing the next kind of higher school in Croatia. Indeed, with all due respect, we must remind ourselves that the University of the North was founded, I guess, the only university that was founded in Croatia by the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the Republic of Croatia and was actually created by fusion of a private higher university, so the University of Media and the University of Varazdin, which was first a high school with the right of the public, because its founders were the only ones, so the city of Varazdin, later moved to the Republic of Croatia and therefore really full attention in the next steps when we set up similar higher universities first to the quality and conditions of the initial
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80540	.../Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bedeković. Reply from fellow Sokol./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80541	Thank you very much. Well, what I think is good is that it is highlighted in this debate, which is exactly the structure of this university because usually, there is, I think Mr. Podolnjak is good that he pointed out it because usually when in media talk about the University of the North, it always stands out, so let's be open, Ninoslav Pavić, Media University, etc. And what is forgotten is that Varazdin and Veleučite in Varazdin is the one who holds the basic work and the main works of this university's programme. Which I think should certainly be pointed out, but it is just that it is saddened that, at least the public impression, that within the party relations in the SDP, it has led to whose county branch is stronger than someone else, that the university is founded, and not that really Varazdin and that northern part of Croatia, and Koprivnica also have needs for the university. So that part, that approach to things isn't good, and there's an indication anyway that at least some element of it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80542	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80543	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Podolnjak, who you are proposing this law. As I come from Koprivnica, I want to point out at first, my debate may go a little differently than some colleagues, but I welcome one thing that has been said here as regards the University of the North, which is that everyone welcomes its founding and its work so far. I join it, I want to say that since its establishment, so after that, it was the beginning of 2014 so that the transfer of founding rights to the Republic of Croatia, this university just keeps growing, I dare say and booming. The number of study programs is growing, the number of students in 2 centres in Varazdin and Koprivnica, and I think it should be that basic thread and the thought of a guide when we talk about the University of the North. It's much less important to me, almost irrelevant to where the seat is, and I think about the name, as far as we've heard that 90% of those who have been exposed today have agreed that this name has been hit. It has already been said a lot about the needs of the inhabitants of the north, the SZ of Croatia, whether it was the SZ or the North, which Mr Podolnjak thinks is the least important, the need for education, the need for professional staff, the sub-capacitation in these professional staffs of one part of Croatia, which is otherwise developed economically and exactly listening to the needs of the economy is one of the main features of this University of the North, the University of the North leads young, professional people who have adapted to the needs of the economy, it is seen by the opening of new study programmes that happen every year at the University of the North and it has fully fulfilled their role. We're talking here, there's a lot of things being said, I don't want to repeat myself, but I don't think we should mix policy into something that works well, which started first of all from professional circles, clearly without some initial influence from politics, but first of all from professional circles and it's developing well. I would not want policy interference to come to the conclusion that, for these or those reasons, this university is not being accompanied in the state budget in order for it to be, and here is a lot of talk, Mr Križanić presented these statistics, but which clearly contribute to the fact that the University of the North should be much better recognised in the state budget, but also without these funds from the state, this university has developed well so far. It just shows that a lot of them, and maybe even people from the ministry, should look at how that university with its 22, 23 million is developing much more quality and faster than some universities that get 2, 3 times, and maybe 5 times more money, especially looking at the number of professional employees and the number of students. Someone said if there was a poll, I don't think there was a poll, and I don't think it was a poll, and I think it's a higher number of professors who work at that university much less important where the seat is, and especially what the name is because the name is already domesticated and brought it back to life. It is much more important for them to get as high quality space as possible, as high quality equipment for their work, and they will then do what they do all these years, place on the labour market in Croatia quality, young people who can contribute to the development, both of Croatia's SZ, our counties, and also the entire Republic of Croatia. I'm saddened that we're discussing in my opinion one less important thing than the seat, such as the name, but I'll say one thing. Look, when the acclaim was in Varazdin, you said, "Hello to move the university's headquarters to Varazdin," how do you think it was accepted in Koprivnica? Also by acclaiming against it, probably. And now because of this animosity that we're breaking some good thing, which I think is irrelevant, let's leave it to the university so people can agree where they want it to be their headquarters, as they agreed. I'll say here is Mr. Sokol, now he hasn't spoken a bit and Mrs. Bedekovic through the replicas, as it was at all the creation of the University of the North, but one is the basis in all of this, that they joined the media university which at that time owned the town of Koprivnica, which was before private, Koprivnica bought most of the shares and the university. So lower rank, Mrs. Bedekovic looks at me and confirms me, lower rank. So, Koprivnica already had a university, and Varazdin did not have it in this association, the agreement reached a compromise to satisfy Koprivnica, which thus strengthened the project of the university, and was also satisfied with Varazdin because it was involved in the university project, and the entire region was given North University as a regional scientific and educational higher education institution, and I think it is the essence of everything and the desire to involve other environments, mentioned here Čakovec and Križevci. Also, I think the university is open to other environments from that north-west part of Croatia because it can contribute to the development of this area, and as the university will be called, I think that the vast majority of us here have agreed, in the end the government has given its opinion that rejects this proposal by Mr. Podolnjak, as well as the parent board for education, science and culture, has also rejected this proposal by Mr. Dolnjak and let's let the people finally deal with what is basic, and I look at the representative of the Ministry of Science and Education there, after the large funds of the local self-government and the university itself in the development of this university, I appeal and call on the Republic of Croatia to help this university properly, because it has proved to be very vital and very necessary, very necessary, and I hope that with additional funding from the state budget, it will develop even faster and even stronger. Here, three days ago they opened, as far as I know, in Varazdin, so several new study programs are expected to come to Koprivnica soon. So there'll be more students. Let's leave it to the university itself to discuss where his seat will be. It is now settled in Koprivnica, whether it will be so in the future we will see, but let's not do anything against the interests of students, against the interests of the parents of these students and against the interests of the university itself. I call you all together to reason, and I welcome this, that the government has not accepted such a bill, and I hope that we will realize it when we vote, and all of these other things can be agreed on, but it is important that we secure financial resources, that this university can do even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80544	I thank my colleague Felak for this debate. We have replicas. Dear colleague Robert Dolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80545	I have to say that I didn't return the individual exposure, here's my colleague here, but I had to do what you said about the merger of a university that was based in Koprivnica and a lower-level university, so the University of Varazdin. I think it was absolutely inappropriate because we all know that the University of Varazdin was a real, functioning higher education institution, and that the media university was not that well known both in Varazdin and in Koprivnica that political history, therefore, which had an impact on the outcome of being a headquarters in Koprivnica because it had this press university pass, but we actually know that the key study programs and students in Varazdin were.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80546	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Answer, colleague Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80547	Mr. Podolnjak, I wouldn't go into this part of the political background. The facts are that Koprivnica had a media university at that moment that was working. There was no such tradition and history as a university in Varazdin, there was no such number of students, but someone also negotiated the cities of Koprivnica and Varazdin, as far as I know, with unanimous decisions by their city councils made a decision on the establishment of the University of North with the headquarters of Koprivnica and I don't think it should be much more involved and let that university do as well as it has done so far because I see, I don't see anything, that there is no obstacle or any obstacle to the quality work of the university that is based in Koprivnica, and it's not in Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80548	Thank you for your response. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80549	Thank you very much. A colleague, therefore, is clear to us all and let's be honest. So, of course, the university is based on the local policy initiative and, of course, it's based on political will. So it happened and that's how it always happens politically when a certain act is passed, so who's stronger than that clutch. In a situation where the University of the North was founded, therefore, the SDP was in position, therefore, in power. Their proposal has gone too far, their proposal has been voted and that's the case. And that's real. If someone else had been in power, you'd probably have passed this second proposal and that's it. What I welcome and what I think is very important and, in fact, the most important thing in this whole story, let's get back to the point, let's go deal with the essence and let's not let the political animosity and the political bickering of who will be and where it will be the seat of the quality of the university's work, which after three years of its work shows a clear amplitude up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80550	I thank my colleagues, Bedekovic. Answer, colleague Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80551	I thank my colleague Bedekovic for what you have said, and I fully agree with this final conclusion of yours, and I said that too, let's not let politics break something that is really good now. There is no Mr Sokola anymore, and I agree with him in this work that it would certainly be a happier solution if the state recognized the needs of this north-west part of Croatia to establish a university and that it was founded by the state as the founder, as in some other parts of Croatia but since this did not happen, then the local environments went into this initiative, is this specificity of Croatia that the founders of two cities, Varazdin and Koprivnica and that the founding rights were then transferred to the state. It would have been much better if the state had established a university in that part of Croatia and in time recognized the needs of people from northwestern Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80552	I thank my colleague Felak for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Hajdukovic, is gone. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Secretary of State Ramljak. So, here I am, as far as I can see last and a lot is already said, I really won't be able to repeat everything we've said at all, and of course I won't say everything I've prepared here, but I'll just try to recapture it for a while and start to say that unfortunately I can't take the impression that it's in one way or another to settle some old accounts related to just the establishment of this university and that it's a matter of evening of old vanity, whether the seat is here, whether it's going to be there, whether it's going to exceed political will, power, or whatever we want to call it, Varazdin, Koprivnica, and then it's either the Cross or the Chakovec, or I don't know, so one of the cities in our northern region of our country, and somehow I don't think we should be able to come back to that level. The university is founded and it is there and I think we should deal with the essence and a little bit as the debate has moved on, yet we are coming to the essence and this is the current status and state of the university as it is today and it is actually the essence that we should talk about and all strive to ensure the best conditions for the development of this university. I was already talking about the importance of the title, so the possibilities of different perspectives, is someone considered appropriate or not, what is important, I don't know if anyone has mentioned it so far, that instead of such, I would call them a flat-rate assessment of whether something is appropriate to me, to you or to anyone else or not, I would say, with all due respect to all of us, that it is one cobweb assessment. It would be important to look at the law, the fundamental law governing higher universities is the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education which, if I have seen it well, does not contain any provision on the name of a higher university or university and in fact there is no legal obligation for the university to bind its names to its seats so that there is, on the legal side, at least as far as the current law is concerned, all ok and as regards the comparison of the name North University to the names in Croatia where it is not a tradition or with names in countries in the environment or some world overseas for Croatia countries, then I will only mention that one of the very good American universities and among the leading if I do not cheat on American universities is a university named Northwest University. Also very close here in the surroundings of Croatia in Romania, in Temisvar we have West University, I visited there last year, after I returned, I called the Rector Milkovic, the Rector of the University of North and told my colleague Milković, I was in Temisvar, the university is called West University, a wonderful one story, a great, modern story, to be willing to cooperate with them, to conclude an agreement on cooperation, that, as if not, we have a nice one here today, here is a concluded cooperation agreement between the University of Timisvar and the University of North in Koprivnica, so here it seems to me to be an interesting story, and I still believe that the name of the university itself is appropriate, the North is an interesting name for him and somehow it is one of the advantages of the University of the North which gives him recognition in the Croatian area of higher education and the world education. If we go back to the point, I'd like to instead of discussing and therefore we're on our way, about changing the name would be more useful to enable the university to provide a peaceful and stable development without tension and without stress. Let's not forget, I don't know if anyone mentioned, May 29, 2015, the university was founded, so it's just entering the 3rd year of its work. So it still hurts for children's disease to express myself like that and let's not do any more tensions, let's let go and do everything we do be in the interest of the universities, teachers, students and then the person of the university. There have already been words, we have here 3,000 students, 200 employees, about 90 external associates, 25 study programs. The University of Varazdin before it passed to the university had 5 study programs. The University of the North, today after 3 years of work there are 25 study programs which at the level of professional studies, which at the level of university studies and that is a great story. He now left, spoke of the University of the North as a university of regional concern for labour market needs and is well connected to needs, recognises the needs of the economy. When it comes to setting up new study programmes, for which day the University of the North will announce, promote or so to say, release, therefore, the setting up of a study of food technology in collaboration with Podravka, which is rather than recognising the needs of the labour market in its area. These are just some of the examples, so someone was talking about the number, I think my fellow Falcon study programs in the stand area, which is very important, over, almost 90% of the program, so theirs is in the stand area, it's not negligible. I somehow think that instead of discussing whether something is going to be called one way or another, whether the seat is going to be here or there, we need to focus on quality, we need to focus on people, we need to focus on having a little patience and let the time show how many students are going to be, whether it's going to be more in Koprivnica, whether it's going to be, that God wants them to be more and more in Koprivnica and in Varazdin and let people work peacefully. Likewise, I give myself the right to say that I know the beginnings of the work of the University of the North because at a time when the University of Varazdin worked integration with the media university, I was still in the system, we had good cooperation with the Velečište in Varazdin and with the entire set of people headed by the current Dean Milkovic and his prodecans, and today, the Rector Milkovic and his proctors. And I think those people did a great job. I know what they are and what hell they were going through when the university was founded. You've done a great thing under impossible circumstances, under all possible media pressures. And now that all of this has finally calmed down a little bit and when they slowly pave their way up, they should be allowed to slowly and peacefully base themselves and systematically develop without proletarianization or without. So, I think politics is there to help and an awful lot can help high schools in smaller environments, including my Virovitica, and also like Koprivnica, which is not much bigger than Virovitica and is bigger but not much more and Varazdin, so politics can do a lot of help there, but you know it can help a lot. So let's focus on politics helping a lot and getting away with it. Let's play political azimunite, let's let the old stories go and let's turn to the future of this university and help it get as much funding as possible to achieve as many projects as possible to keep the ministry looking out for them, to take care of their period and to ensure that all the conditions for some 10, 20, 30 or 50 years of North University reach its full development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80554	I would like to thank my colleague Bedekovic, the replica of my esteemed colleague Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80555	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedeković, you pointed out one thing that I think is very important, which we lack right in our scientific and academic community, which is a paradox, which is that decisions are based on some objective indicators and criteria, means that no... Some things from the finger or from this subjective impression, as it seems to someone, because then, here, some say that most people think the name is appropriate, others say it's not appropriate, I mean, so we can hit on ourselves by tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that's one of the fundamental problems of our system, education and higher education in general, that when decisions were made on the establishment, I am now talking about this university, but in general about a network of higher schools, how much money will be invested in, etc., etc. If there were all but objective criteria, unfortunately, especially in that period when there was the most money, before the financial crisis, I think there could have been a major step in our improved system, that the opportunity had been spent and now we have to repair a lot of mistakes and a lot of damage that was done then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80556	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Sokol, the answer of my colleague Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80557	Thank you. Well, just for a while, I'd like to thank you for your replica. That we had in Croatia the awakening of higher schools in various places in various environments, and that we did not at the same time bring clear founding criteria. So again, we had the establishment of higher schools, on the principle of who is stronger, who is better at elections, the higher school is founded without taking into account the clearer criteria, the quality of the work of those higher schools and the way in which these higher schools will continue to develop on clear criteria, equal for all. I think it's a good thing the Agency for Science and Higher Education is doing through the process of recrediting higher schools, where there are now shortages and shortcomings, but also the good side of some high schools, and I think that this way we should just continue and, of course, advocate access to clear criteria in the place of flat-rate assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80558	I thank my colleague Bedekovic for his reply. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Robert Dolnja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80559	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and thank my colleagues and colleagues for discussing this bill. And if it seems to you that we have discussed a short, perhaps for some of the above draft laws, believe me that this debate also shows that the bill, in fact, was good in a sense that we could all agree that it encouraged a debate and a new one, about a younger, public university in the Republic, where the debate drew attention, not only about the name or the seat or the suitability and the change, but also about the financing and position of that public university. And I am pleased and quite certainly a little more than half a year, when we discuss the budget of the Republic of Croatia, for the following year, we will certainly all here who have talked about it, especially the representatives, who have been elected in the area of the constituency from Varazdinska, Koprivnica and Križevci County, will certainly, I believe, make their contribution, that the financial position of the University of the North be equal to all other public universities. And I believe that in this sense, in particular, the representatives of the majority party who certainly have a greater impact in this process of adopting a state budget, it is clear to me and I am glad that this debate, in this sense, will be a reminder to all of us, when the debate on the financing of the University comes in the context of the debate on the adoption of a state budget, in this sense this debate is certainly not a surplus. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that my intentions were not political by making this proposal of the law. I was solely motivated by the position of numerous participants in the town of Varazdin and the Varazdin County who have been discussing it for years, and just say the turning point for submitting the proposal was that it was pointed out at the City Council of the City of Varazdin's meeting on the holiday of the day of the city and other fellow MPs were aware that it was just then highlighted and that it was welcomed and accompanied as something very important. Certainly not as an insignificant act of politics. What I particularly want to point out is that I think we should respect the fact that there are 85% of students in the City of Varazdin. That's what other fellow MPs said, it's an objective fact that shows where the university's focus is, in fact. I am convinced that this fact is not political, but something objective that should be valorized in a way that also has its seat in Varazdin. I see that the consensus on the name of the university has certainly not been reached and that I think more or less all the participants in the debate have said they have no problem with the name of the university. I can respect that, but in that second section of the change of seat I must conclude that HDZ representatives, my colleagues from the Varazdin County, supported the proposal that the University of the North, yes, and if it doesn't change its name, it has its seat in Varazdin. They also reminded themselves that such a proposal was presented, at least by their colleague, at the time of the 2015 MP, I think that Mrs. Sunčana Glavak, had made the proposal and that it was a proposal from the HDZ Club, so you too have been supporting actually the headquarters in Varazdin since the very establishment of that public university. What is legally unsaid, which we will see in fact how this will take place is whether this change of seat will be done by the Ministry of Science because it stems from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the seat can be changed by its decision, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, if it can be done by simple decision, and that is what you and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ said, so I remember very well that this is the position expressed by fellow Strick, which means that you have actually transferred the proposal that was made in this Bill to the Ministry of Science, that is, the Minister Ms Blaženko Divjak. In that sense, although I generally believe, and I think that it is only logical and legal that the seat and the name of the university are determined by law, but if, in a specific case specifically of this Law on the acquisition of founding rights, the seat is not regulated by law and that this is the reason why the Government has made its position, I can accept it in principle, this means that we will all jointly advocate that such a decision is made by the competent Ministry of Science and that such a decision will soon be made. In this sense, this debate has nevertheless achieved its purpose and if, as the club representatives have said, they will not support this bill, in any case the debate we have held is welcome for the University of the North and on these status issues, so seats and names universities, but especially with regard to the future development of strengthening the material position of the university, and for that we will all be confident to all stand together in the adoption of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the coming year. I thank you all for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80560	I thank the esteemed Mr. Robert Dolnjak. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would also like to thank Mr Robert Dolnjak for the explanation of this bill. I would also like to thank the State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mrs Branko Ramljak, for attending this debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue our work on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 327. I thank you all and I want a pleasant rest of the day. Session adjourned at 3:26 p.m. Proposal for a Law on road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 327. I thank you all and I want a pleasant rest of the day. Session adjourned at 3:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-20-0.u80561	We are now going to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, first reading of P.Z. Number 254. Proposer is a representative of Prof. Dr.sc. Robert Dolnjak. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 88 for, 6 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
