ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98885	Good day, everybody. It's half past ten, 9.30, we start work. With: - Final proposal of the Law on Wires, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 357 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate on the basis of Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. If the proposer wants an additional explanation, here is Secretary of State with us, Mrs Nikola Brnjak from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98886	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected, respected parliamentary representatives, in the Republic of Croatia is currently at the heart of 9 years of approval for the work of cablemen, and for this I will for more cablers to the cabins of Dubrovnik Srđ, a climber in Zagreb, and for the ski resort... on 3 ski resorts and the plan is to build a hanging cable with cabins on Medvednica and Učka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area of construction and safety of cableways is governed by the Law of cableways for the transport of persons in which the provisions of Directive 2009/9 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 have been transposed. The mandatory application of Regulation (EU) 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on cableways repeals Directive 2000/9, which applies entirely to new cableways, to the modifications of cableways requiring new approval, and includes subsystems and safety components that are new on the EU market when placing them on the market. In relation to the applicable Law on cableways, the following shall not be changed, it shall be determined that the cableway is allowed to operate and transport a person on the basis of the approval for the operation of cableways, which, at the request of the cabler manager, the legal person, who is responsible for the safe operation of the cablers and who must be designated by the owner, the investor, or the concessionary of the cabler, that the ministry is responsible for the traffic within a year. One of the conditions for the authorisation for the work of the cableway is an expert technical review, which shall verify these conditions in the safety report and apply the technical conditions for the safety of the cableways, prescribed by the special regulations, which shall be carried out by the legal or natural person authorised by the minister, responsible for transport, on the basis of a certificate of accreditation issued by the Croatian accreditation agency. The technical conditions for new cableways are hereby amended, given that they are laid down in Regulation 2016/424. In relation to the Law of cableways for the transport of persons, which determines that concession in the area of cableways can be granted for the economic use of general or other goods, for public works or for public services, the Law on cableways will determine that concession in the area of cableways, is given as a concession for the economic use of general or other goods, which is determined by law to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, and for the purpose of the use of space passing the route of cablers and the use of properties owned by the Republic of the unit of local regional self-government and not by a request or a public tender. The exemption shall be determined from the application of the concession, the period on which the concession is granted, the concession procedures on request and through the public tender and the obligation to resolve the property legal relationship. The competent authority of the concession provider and the concession fee itself shall also be governed. Therefore, in the event that the infrastructure of the cableways is built in owned by the Republic of Croatia or the railway route passes over real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Prior Consensus of the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives prior consent. And the concession, which means a concession fee, in that case, revenue from the state budget. In the event that the infrastructures of the cableways are built in the property of the unit of local or regional, regional self-government or the route of the cableway passes above the property owned by the local and regional self-government unit, the concession provider shall be the competent authority of the unit of local or regional self-government. In addition, revenue from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. In the event that the cableway infrastructure is built on a property owned by the owner of a cable car or by an investor of a cableway, the track of the cableway passes over the property owned by the owner of the cable investors by the local self-government unit and the concession of the budget of the unit of local self-government. In the event that the cableway infrastructure is located on multiple properties or lines, the cableway passes over more real estate there are several possible concession providers defined in these articles, the concession provider shall be determined by means of a mutual contract between the potential concession provider, which must be concluded before the concession procedure is launched, taking into account the ownership, the land on which the cabler's infrastructure is located and above which the cableway passes and the importance of the same location where the cabler is located. The part of the fee shall be proportionately shared in the ownership of the part of the property, on which the construction of the cableway infrastructure itself and the ownership of the property behind which the track of the cableway passes, unless the contract referred to in Article 11. The 20th proposed by this law is not otherwise arranged. Therefore, the provisions of Article 1 shall not be taken over. 28 and 37 of the applicable Law on Wires, since the area in question is regulated by the prescribed conditions for establishing a working relationship and other provisions on employment. The differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal of this law, i.e. the solutions to the draft law, in relation to the text of the proposal of the Law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the text of the final proposal, was amended in nomotechnical terms, the comments of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament and further in the final proposal of the law, the way and conditions of the calculation of concession fees are determined by the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, unlike the draft bill in which the minister had previously adopted it, and it was accepted that Agent Anka Mrak-Taritash's comment on Article 26(1) that the condition of at least 5 years of work experience in the profession is too restrictive for the position of inspectors for cablers and that the question is whether we will be able to find an appropriate fit for this job. In accordance with its proposal, this condition has been reduced to 3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98887	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98888	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Brnjak, this law has been properly made. Therefore, compliance with the European acquis and with the safety and construction of cableways, there are no significant objections to their maintenance. What will certainly make us when implementing this law, as it has been so far, in the Republic of Croatia is a rule, it is a conflict between potential investors and all those who believe that investors come to concessions in an unfair, unfair way and that it will endanger the environment and human health. I'm sure there'll be problems. And what seems to me in an individual debate or in a debate on behalf of the club, I'll see with my clubmates I'll point out, it seems to me that, I'm going to say this ironically, maybe Article 7(1) should be changed so that it says that the cableways are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, especially in front of local elections. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98889	Would you like to respond? No, I don't. Okay. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98890	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State I have one question specifically, namely you said that the concession is paid either by the state or by the local community, but also by the private owners above which the wire goes. How this amount of concession will be determined when it comes to private property, and we know today that there are many private owners in Croatia who seek or blackmail their land in various ways. How will an investor invest in a cable car and who will determine the amount that is, I would say correct, which is real? Is there then a state that I don't know banging on the table so the word here's the amount is either it's going to have to own it or that concessionary makes it up to each other. And there's a question of whether they'll make a deal. It is one obstacle to investment in cableways, we know that we have very little or too little cable in Croatia, and we want to deal with tourism. Here's a question specifically, so if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98891	Thank you very much. Yes, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98892	So before the investor, before starting any process, he has to do eligibility studies, justification studies precisely define and regulate relations that he also contributes to how much relations, what I was saying at the outset to know if the infrastructure of the cablers are located on more infrastructures, on more real estate, because they're looking for cablers, so we have more potential concession providers, he has to be contracted before the concession process, taking into account the ownership of that cabler. In addition, the arrangements and conditions for calculating concession fees are laid down by the regulation they will adopt, set out precisely by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It was written earlier in the first part that it would be passed by the Minister's Regulation, but we have defined that it is better to define it by a regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98893	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First up are clubs, Mr. Pero Ćosic, club of representatives of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98894	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished promoters from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, respected state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In July, we discussed the proposal of the Law on Wires and gave our suggestions and opinions, we heard that the text of the bill was nomotechnically completed and the remarks needed to be accepted so that I could say that the HDZ Club supports the final proposal of the Wires Act. With this final proposal of the Law on Wires, the law will be brought into line with the EU acquis as well as with the new Croatian law on concessions, and the final proposal of the Law on Wires contains important newspapers and improvements in relation to the current law. These improvements relate to the construction of new cableways, concessions, the obligations of the administrator and cable manager on conditions and authorisations for work, maintenance of cableways, safety analysis, expert technical examination, and questions of inspection supervision have been elaborated and certain infringements have been identified. First reading of this law, I must say, has not triggered any broader debate in this House, so I believe the public's interest, so I will highlight some of the facts and concerns that have been heard in this debate. Where the Government of the Republic of Croatia, local self-government and investors do not own the property or part of the property on which the cableway infrastructure is to be located, the future concessionary shall be obliged before the contract is concluded in the concession to regulate property legal relations through the authorisation, the contract of the right of service or, in other words, by special regulations. In short, for our fellow citizens who might be in a situation where the construction of cableways is planned on their land, this means that the future concessionaire is obliged to resolve property-legal relations before the concession is obtained, but it should be taken into account how this law provides for the possibility that construction of cableways can be declared a state interest, so this is what Mr. Prelec asked, so it can be a state interest so that the government can rule out their ownership on land if it is intended to build buildings of cableways, so it is only those places for pillars and to become cablers. And resolve the right of service if the route of the cableway passes above the land that is private property and only by prescribing the least vertical distance, ropes, i.e. the lower edge of the vehicle from the ground to which the cableway passes, and if defined again, that height is the Regulation on minimum safety conditions for the operation of existing cableways, tow and tows for the transport of persons, the Regulation is still in force, and after the adoption of this law within 6 months, the Ministry is obliged to draw up a new Regulation. Concessions for lifts are given for a period of 5 to 50 years, concessions given over a period of more than 20 years require prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this Law on cableways ensures greater safety of cableways at the time of their construction since the beginning of use, as well as during their work, as procedures for the approval, inspection and use of new and existing cableways are regulated. And it is extremely important to continue to grant approval for the work of cableways after a professional technical examination for only one year, because it reaffirms the correctness of cableways and their safety for passengers and property each year. In order to comply with this law, the law prescribes high fines for potential offenders. At this point in the Republic of Croatia, we have only 16 built cableways of which 10 cableways are approved for work. This modest number of built and even more modest railways that work suggests that this type of transport in Croatia is undeveloped and almost unrecognized. I hope that after this law there will be a change in the understanding of the potential this type of transport offers and the first step of this is certainly the adoption of this law because the legislation is now defined, the shortcomings have been removed and I believe that there will be no longer any reason for the disputes that were before the adoption of this law, for example with a cabler in Dubrovnik where the situations between local communities, investors and the applicable legislation have been disputed. Given that we are a tourist country, we must accept the fact that cableways extend the tourist offer, there are frequent discussions on how to extend the season, how to fill in before and sub-season, and I am sure that construction of cableways would make a significant contribution. It is also said that the plan is to build cableways from the sea to the top of Učka and from Makarska to Biokovo and I think that connecting our coast with the mountains certainly increases the offer and recreationals, athletes and other tourists and develops the sights of tourism that depend not only on the sun and the sea. In addition to tourism, it should be pointed out that some countries have developed this mode of transport in urban transport as well. For example. Bolivia has reached the problem of city crowds and its cableways daily travels 159 thousand people from Lapaza to another part of the city and climbs to an altitude of up to 4 thousand meters and besides solving traffic congestion, the cableway is also a tourist attraction and is used for panoramic, touristic tour of the city. Of course, it should be seen what kind of transport, whether such a type of transport would help us to avoid major seasonal crowds and whether it is cost-effective to invest in this kind of transportation to see the sights. In his first reading, he mentioned that this is what is being considered in the town of Sibenik to create a cable company with multiple stations to see both the natural and cultural sights of the city. From the current perspective of the construction of panoramic cableways, we may find it abstract and realistic that property legal relations would require us to realise such investments but not only because of property legal problems, but the cableways are usually built alongside or in attractive spaces, whether they are places of historical, cultural, economic or ecological significance, and here is an additional... their construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we all love our country, we all strive to protect nature, cultural and historical wealth, but I must admit that prosperity is not built on bans but on successful investment projects that are and must be in line with sustainable development. This law allows it, where there are great needs and where there is strong will, everything can be achieved and in the end because of our fellow citizens we must really think about a long-term sustainable economy in this case it is tourism and always offer our guests more. And the question of urban crowds, especially the metropolis, is another question that I hope will soon be debated here in the Assembly because urban environments are growing in every sense, but unfortunately the development of modern moderations of transport does not follow their growth, and we will not have to do what it means to develop modern aspects of suburban and urban railways, building subways or other forms of modern transport. Construction of cableways is expensive and long-term work but it should be pointed out that such investments must be seen in the light of more attractive, tourist, economic and traffic offers as well as in terms of improving the quality of life of our citizens. I therefore expect that the adoption of this Law on Wires will facilitate the way towards new investments and investment in cableways as one of the particularly attractive modes of transport. And lastly, once again, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Final Bill on Wires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98895	Thank you, too. Mr. Allen Prelec is now at work in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98896	Thank you, Your Honor, for your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State in front of your co-workers. Here, I also have to admit that I haven't read a lot of laws like this one that's relatively simple, clear, and I hardly have any objections to this law, it's clear that it's actually more consistent with the EU Regulation since 2016. And this law ensures the safety of cableways in Croatia, their construction, release and during their work surveillance. It is a really good law, I say, unfortunately good laws come to us exclusively or generally when the EU dictates it to us. The fact that the situation in Croatia today as far as the cable is concerned is not good, we have only a few cablemen in office. One of these is less than 200, 300 meters from our Parliament, and that's the climber. We have a cable company on Srd, which is fully operational for tourist purposes. We have a little bit of cable, which is a function of recreational tourism, or recreational sport, or skiing. And unfortunately, it's actually too little if we want to be one real tourist destination and that's considered. All those who travel a little outside and then know that here are the great prominent, tourist centers, the cities have many, many cableways without speaking to all those who ski, who go to Austria, Italy, Switzerland and see how much cable there is in those destinations. In Croatia, we certainly have much more opportunities and needs for cableways, especially for tourism and I would say in one part, clearly and in this recreational part about skiers. The fact is that there is a need to make use of the EU's maximum funds we unfortunately haven't used, and I see so little on the Internet that some of ours, in our vicinity of the country, have done more about the development of these infrastructures and cableways. Here's only in Montenegro I read that between Kotor and Cetinje, the Montenegrins plan to make one 15km cable car and use it, it's an investment of 47m euros, and they mean to use funds, not now European funds because they are not in the EU but credits, and that's certainly a swing for tourism in Montenegro. I believe the Croats will go that way, because we definitely have potential. The idea of connecting the Adriatics and mountains with cableways is also the Croatian part of the sea, and seven similar projects have been recorded for the past 10 years. For now, only one Dubrovnik, Srđ, has been built for 8 years, from 2002 to 2010 and has cost 5 million euros. But there are many other examples where the local community tried to launch a wire project, and here is a report on the construction of cableways between Omis and Fort Fortica, as far as I know there is also a foreign investor who is interested in it. Bola and Vidova gora, Medveje and Učka as well as the cable companies that were dreamt of and former generations would combine Makarska and Biokovo, i.e. Split and Marijan. There was also talk of a project twice as expensive as the mentioned Montenegrin, for 100m euros it was intended to build 10km of long cable... She also connected Dalmatia over the southern Velebit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, as ambitious as that was, judge for yourself. With recent changes and additions to this spatial plan, the city of Omis has paved the way for a group of US investors. Some other projects are being systematically run, so the Učka cable company in Opatija and the cable company in Biokovo is being established. The Macarans want a 2920m-long cable wire to connect their city with the 1400m-high top of Vosac on Biokovo. On the cableway towards Učka whose track would be 4km long would cost 11m euros, the Primors and Istrana work very seriously. It means a lot of projects, it has a lot of ideas, I believe it is mostly thanks to local self-government which is concerned that here it attracts tourists and makes some attraction and here it is, and I hope that Zagreb will do something about it, but the most important thing to do is use EU funds and build a cable system. I hope this law will simplify and speed up the construction of cableways for tourist purposes as well as for this recreationally as I said about skiers. But I also see some obstacles on this road. What I've asked the secretary of state and about the authority referred to in point 23, and now I'm going to read what I think will be a problem. Namely, in the case of cableways owned and controlled or whose construction investor is the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local and regional self-government, the body of the state administration and the legal person owned by them, and in the event that the cable infrastructure is located on properties that are not owned by them, the property-legal relations shall be settled by authority, the service right contract or otherwise prescribed by specific regulations. That's where I see the problems. All of you who have touched perhaps some time any project that goes on private property, you know how difficult it is for the Croatian state, how many obstacles there are from the people who own the country, so here I simply see problems and from my personal experience I know when we do something in the public interest, I am clearly talking about the public interest not about the private interest, how much trouble you have with the owners of the country that are simply against any investment. And not only the country's owners but also the general citizens who pose a problem with some investment in the public interest. But also red tape. Personally, I'm really, we're trying to work roads, nogos, and some other projects, and then you see how much red tape is actually multiple times an obstacle to the functioning of this country. I have not met many ministers who have been obstructing any investment, no matter which government it was, no matter which Prime Minister, but frankly, I have met so many times with the obstacle that they, small wheels, bureaucrats, were doing there in some sort of spatial arrangement or in any state administration or in any ministry. It's amazing that the Croatian state has repeatedly and we're talking about public interest, it doesn't work. And then the minister or president of the government makes an effort to do good laws so that MPs or at least most of them propose laws that will solve it and then a small wheel comes along, a bureaucratic one that blocks it all away. I've got a lot of colleagues working at local level here at the council hall. The mayors, the mayors, they've given the directors of the county roads or I don't know who else, and they know what I'm talking about. We know what we're talking about. The laws are good, they write well, and then I stop saying there in one corner, one office, one little bureaucrat that doesn't work. Which will do anything to make it possible not on purpose, to mine one project worth tens of millions of euros, a project that of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, a project that is of the interest of the local community and then clearly does not go its own way. Here's what I'm talking about, it's not concrete, it's about this law, but it's about general investment, and here's what I said, a cable car in Croatia needs more for tourist purposes, but it's about how much investors will really have a desire and will to fight over these problems and red tape, but also problems with power. I hope that this law will also encourage our mayor Milan Badnić, that Zagreb, and all those tourists, and we know that there are many, we see them here on a daily basis in Mark's square, that they can end up on our beautiful Zagreb mountain and that the cable car is in function as he said in early 2019, we certainly know that it will not be in 2019. And here I read an article, cover, just, it says, after 12 years of waiting finally moving the mega project weighs more than 250 million kn. Well, here I want this really mega project when Zagreb comes to life and not only is it the mayor's promise, but we want to experience that here, with an ascension that is only 200 meters long and some meters or 300 meters long, we have a cable car that will lead us to the top of Zagreb Mountain. A lot of promises have been made, it's a project that lasts, I don't know how many, I don't know, I think, ten or twelve years ago, the cable company stopped working and it didn't start, it was promised. As far as I know, we also have concrete moves now in Zagreb, I really want it to be as soon as possible, I hope that it is not a coincidence of this law and with the wish of Mr Bandić to begin the movement issue of building a cable or perhaps an eco-frequency, but here, I hope that all of this will be in favour of Zagreb and all those who come to Zagreb, that they can climb Zagreb Mountain. In any case, we will support this law, with the hope that in the future, there will be even more cableways in Croatia, especially this one, Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98897	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98898	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with Associates, you're a young team, I don't know how much you're aware of the fact, that very rarely in the Croatian Parliament happens, that even the opposition praises some law, so this is this one rare case. I would say in part, of course, because it is clearly written, but also partly and because it is not trying to get anything under the grain, so to speak, because we often get laws that call for all possible European directives, and in fact they are not doing it at all, but rather something else and by covering European directives, they are trying to get through something else. This law does not do so, it is clear, it is seen why it is brought and seen to be carrying with it, certain useful improvements, in the first place, by introducing stricter control of the safety of the cablers, i.e., the lifts, the hanging cableways and the towways, as spoken here. So, harmonisation, not only with European standards, but also with the control that is common, de facto in accordance with this law, will have to be referred to the security situation, i.e. the checks that are carried out over these lifts, hanging lifts and tows annually. And this is certainly a positive shift, especially given the European experience and countries that have far more cable than Croatia has and unfortunately there have been examples of accidents and precisely for reasons of insufficiently strict safety criteria. And it is good that Croatia is involved in this project, i.e. to balance its safety standards, as I said, not only with European and European standards, but also with the mechanisms, reporting at EU level, the state and status of individual wires used in the Republic of Croatia. This law also regulates the issue of giving and execution of concessions, which is certainly good, but I have noticed here what my colleague Prelac asked and said, therefore, we remember from the example of building highways, when it comes to the need for more entities to allow, for, for, to agree to the concession, that coordination is often tiring, it becomes possible for one participant in the process, so one owner to evaluate and stop the whole project, and it might not be a bad thing to think about some more precisely defined way, that it will at least reduce this danger, if it cannot be fully eliminated, and probably not fully eliminated, because it will simply be such a situation that the territory, over which the cablers go, will be owned by different and physical legal etc. a person and that such situations will arise. I don't have at this point, some, concrete smart proposal, but probably people who are more concerned with this topic could be even more precise or more uniformly, let's say, we have a way of coordinating owners, or individuals who, in such a situation, have to give their consent so that the cable car can be built so as not to have excellent projects and important projects and the fact is that we have very few cableways, we have the potential for a lot, a country that holds absolutely to the protection of the environment, such as Austria has built a mass of cableways right now with EU coins, wherever you go you see little tiles and plates on which it says that the money has given the EU, developing not only winter tourism tourism, but also summer tourism that is supposed to be even stronger than winter, which is hard to believe, but precisely because of this user friendly infrastructure or infrastructure that adapts to the needs of citizens and those who come there. Thank you for accepting the GLAS proposal that Mrs. Mrak-Taritash put out here which is actually heading towards making it more realistic, closer to everyday life and facts on the ground, and we think it will certainly facilitate the job of finding people who are going to carry out inspections in this moment, in this respect very precise and well-regulated law and business. I'd like to end up with a nostalgic theme, and that's the Sljemen vest. All the inhabitants of Zagreb grew up with Sljemenski žika, except for those smallest who have never seen it, which is an integral part of this town, an integral part and some infrastructure of this town, so I don't know if the cableways can be treated and treated as they are. The climber is treated as part of a public crossing, along with all other dishes, part of the tourist offer and this, but also as part of public transport. As far as the Sljemen cabler was concerned, it was certainly that, it reduced the number of cars that go and people are driving to Sljeme, enabled people of all generations and all age groups to use this fantastic component of Zagreb, and I hope that in some way this law and a little bit of public service will help that absolutely emblemic part of Zagreb, which is the Sljemenska cabler, will return and activate again. The GLAS and HSU club will definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98899	Thank you. We're done with counseling clubs, and now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Stypo Sapina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98900	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law on cableways for the transport of persons is subject to more important requirements for design, production and construction, construction... for the transport of persons, conditions for the safety of the operation of cableways, safety of persons using cableways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a view to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of cableways, meeting the obligations of application of Regulation (EC) 2016/424 of 21 April 2018, a proposal of the Law on cableways has been drawn up to put in place a legal framework for the implementation of the Regulation and the establishment of the Ministry of Transport as the bodies implementing the application for the assessment of consent and the language in which the data, instructions and information, documentation and other documents and the EU declaration of consent, as well as a security analysis and the safety report must be required. This Law on Wires is repealing Directive 200/9 of the European Community of March 2000. On the proposal of the Law on Wires, there were, in the first debate, 6 MPs, after the debate was held, and this proposal respected technical suggestions from the club, i.e. from the Legislative Committee and from the representative Taritash. The proposal of the Law on Wires provides for the provision of safety of cableways at the time of their construction, release and during their operation, the determination of the procedures applied for the approval of new existing cableways. It shall be ensured that cableways can only be used if they comply with the Regulation and do not threaten to endanger the health and safety of persons or property when properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with their purpose. In relation to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons determined that concessions in the area of cableways can be granted by economic use of general or public goods for public works or public services. The proposal of the Wire Act determines that the owner of a cableway or an investor is obliged to pass a concession for cableways, as a concession for the economic use of general or social goods for which the law lays down that it is good for the Republic of Croatia, and for the purpose of using the space in which the cableway passes or for the purpose of the use of the property on which the cableway infrastructure is built, owned by the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local administration and self-government. The concession provider whose revenue from the concession fee and the time limit on which the concession itself is granted and that the concession may be granted exclusively at the request of the owner of the cableway or investor if the existing or planned economic activity of the economic operator at a specific location constitutes the subject of a concession for which the request is submitted by an indivisible technological or functional whole, concession and serves exclusively for the performance of that economic activity. It shall determine the jurisdiction and the concession procedure itself through a public tender and the manner in which the concession is to be given when it begins and when the concession procedure itself ends. Property legal relations shall be determined in the event that the Republic of Croatia or the local administration unit and self-government of the investor or the owner of the cableway does not own the property or part of the property on which it is located or the infrastructure of the cableway itself will be located. Or in the case of cableways where they are owned and managed and whose investor is the construction of the Republic of Croatia units of local administrations and self-government or regional self-government, body of the state administration or legal person who is also their own, which is in their majority ownership. And in case the cable infrastructure is located on the property that is once again owned by them. This proposal for a law provides that concessions shall be exempt from cableways owned or managed by or whose investor is the construction of the Republic of Croatia or units of local administrations and self-government. This law also ensures greater safety for cableways in the course of their construction and application as well as during their work. This proposal ceases to apply as many as 10 regulations, and the ministry should adopt a series of regulations, i.e. sublegal acts, which would bring certain legal provisions closer and regulated. I believe that this should be supported by the Final Proposal of the Law on Wires because the adoption of this Act will bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis in the area of cableways, the creation of a legal framework for the implementation of Regulation 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 will bring together the provisions relating to the award of concessions in the area of cableways with the new Law on concessions and will ensure the safety of cableways at the time of their construction, release and during their work of determining the appropriate procedures for the approval of new and existing cableways, the examination of cableways before they are released into service and their monitoring during work. The adoption of this law will facilitate the way towards new investment and investment in cableways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98901	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first is the replica of Mr. Preleco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98902	Thank you to the existing esteemed chairman. My colleague, here you have talked about the safety of the cableway, and you have read this article 11 which reads: “The cableways are only allowed in use if they are in accordance with the regulation and do not threaten to endanger the health and safety of persons or property. ” I absolutely agree with this article, but it's really nice writing and it's hard to do that sometimes. We know what happened to the viaduct in Genoa where it must have been built on all possible projects and security conditions, so there was a tragedy. And I'd like to mention security now, how we're going to secure the safety of the cableman in the city when we know the cablemen are going above the houses. And who would be the one to say, that this is absolutely safe now, this is not safe, and we know that accidents happen exactly everywhere and every one especially on some of the objects that are older, which are questionable qualities over the years that they've been built.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98903	Thank you. The second line has Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98904	Dear colleague, I thank you for pointing out the benefits and significance of this law that is very high-quality. And what I'd like to remind you is that there is an intensification at Velebit in its time between Zadar County and Lika-Sen County to build the St. Hill cable carousel. And I sincerely hope that this law will allow this to happen and to realize all those ideas that were then very optimistic and we see that this would greatly increase the tourist offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98905	Thank you. Let's move on. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98906	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on cableways that further harmonizes our legislation with the EU acquis. Directive 2000/9/EC of March 2000 is put above force and a legal framework for the implementation of EU Regulation 2016/424 is created. The provisions relating to the award of concessions in the area of cableways are also harmonised with the new Law on concessions adopted last year, and the proposal for this cableway law contains important newspapers improved in relation to the applicable law, namely the construction of new cableways, concessions, the obligations of the administrator and cable manager to the conditions and approval for work, maintenance of cableways, safety analysis, expert technical examination and the questions of inspection supervision and certain infringements have been elaborated. The concession providers whose revenue is from the concession fee and the period on which the concession itself is granted shall be determined. Furthermore, the concession may be granted directly at the request of the owner of the cableway or investor if the existing or planned economic activity of the economic operator at a specific location. It shall determine the jurisdiction and the concession procedure itself through a public tender, the manner of notification of the purpose of the concession, when it begins and when the concession procedure is completed, the concession shall be given within 5 to 50 years and I think it is good that the concessions granted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for more than 20 years should be subject to the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Greater safety of cableways is ensured at the time of their construction, start of use as well as during their operation, as procedures for the approval, review and use of new and existing cableways are laid down. It is of paramount importance to continue the approval for the operation of cableways after a technical examination for only one year today, as it reaffirms the correctness of the cableways and their safety for passengers and property each year. The adoption of this law ceases to apply as many as 10 regulations and a number of new ones should be adopted by the ministry. The Republic of Croatia has made 16 cableways of which 10 have the approval of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure on the basis of an annual expert and technical examination. It is a hanging cable car with the Dubrovnik-Srđ cabin, Uspinjača in Zagreb,... And tows on ski resorts in Sljemen, Delnice, Platka, and Mugina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the world, the cablers are often proud and attractive of a city, we can also be proud because we have our 66m rail lift, it is a symbol of the city of Zagreb and more than a century drive without any accidents being recorded. In this way, many countries have developed transport and exploited its advantages, or advantages, of cableways, such transport could reduce traffic even in some city centers. With us, this type of transport has not been developed in relation to some countries even in our neighborhood. We have agreed here and the position and opposition that this law is necessary and welcomed by one other party in relation to the first reading, the text of the final proposal has been changed in relation to the observations of the Legislative Committee, where the way and calculation of concession fees is determined by a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not by a regulation adopted by the Minister, and the proposal of the distinguished advocate Mrak-Taritash is also accepted that the deadline of 5 years is reduced to 3 years, which I think is also important, because I really don't think we would have any time on the ground that has more than 5 years of experience in this business and of course I welcome the adoption of this law and I think that here we will use EU funds and start to build new wires that we have what to offer as an attraction, and of course, to reduce pollution or traffic congestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98907	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. Mrs. Putica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98908	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Maksimčuk, you mentioned an example of cablemen in Dubrovnik that we all know is actually the only cable car in Croatia, with a part of Zagreb which is a really serious economic operator and which brings millions of dollars to concessions not only for concessionaries but in the city of Dubrovnik, so we all, especially in Dubrovnik, hope that this law will, in a better way, regulate the adoption and signing of concessions, but what was in the past, the city of Dubrovnik has unresolved legal relations with the entities and concessionaires who are now in Dubrovnik and we really believe that by adopting this law, but also the regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will give to them. Methods and conditions of the charge for the concession [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] and setting up a working group to solve this problem in Dubrovnik in quality, thank you very much. [[Time, Mrs. Putica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98909	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98910	Thank you very much. Well, here's a distinguished colleague, I'm glad you mentioned Srđ, this law will, of course, improve and speed up the adoption of concessions and of course everyone will solve the question of concessions or the issue of solving problems that you already have in Dubrovnik for a while and, of course, speed up the construction and design of new cableways in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98911	Thank you. The second line has Mr. Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98912	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have been told in our statement that this new Law on cableways ensures greater safety at the time of their construction, start of work and further use because we know that most construction facilities after obtaining a pass on the technical examination, obtaining a service permit, obtaining their guarantee to work for one longer period, however, here in the cableway after a technical examination that must be carried out every year, are granted a licence for the work of the cablers, so every year a new personal confirmation must be sought, and thus prove their safety for passengers and property, do you feel justified that even after the first year of building such a permit is required for the second year?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98913	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98914	Here's an esteemed colleague, yes, your question is precisely on the trail and the questions asked by Mr. Prelec, yes, I find it justified that even after construction of the cableway this technical examination is carried out because it is very important that the safety of our citizens so that here I welcome this provision in the law that every year a technical examination of the cableway and their correctness is carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98915	Thank you very much. The third line has Mr. Ante Babic-
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98916	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members of Maksimčuk, I am particularly pleased that in the proposal of this law you spoke about the climber of the city of Zagreb which is and we witnessed a week ago, actually celebrated its 128th birthday and in fact you spoke more about the attractiveness of such cablers and climbers by mentioning them to other world capitals but the fact is that during the year, this climber carried about 750 thousand passengers, therefore, it is also an important economic subject. Yeah, the shortest one is such a wire in the world, driving maybe takes some minutes and we're witnessing that big no. tourists arriving in Zagreb use this cableway to the Rotteršak Tower. And yet on the other hand, I'm glad, it was also mentioned by Mr. Prelec, he mentioned to the cable company from Makarska to the Vocac Hill on Biokova, meaning from a zero point at 1460 m, and I hope this law... That wire as soon as possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98917	Thank you. Time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98918	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I mentioned our Zagreb climber she is an attraction of the city and I believe that if we could make good use of EU funds so that some cities of brovitates could build such climbers to be attractive, but of course they serve in transport, because here, we said that with our Zagreb climber, 750 thousand passengers per year, it is not a little bit for an economic operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98919	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Tomislav Sagar's turn and, yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98920	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, although I belong to a group of opposition deputies, I would like to commend this law, it is professionally made, no wonder, because Mrs Brnjak, in the area of railway and rail transport, is doing good things and we can say that the cablers are only a special type of railway transport, because also in the cableway of cabins, platforms, baskets for passenger seats, forced water on the track of steel ropes and in some way corresponds to the definition of rail transport. What I would also like to point out is that this law is important, although often when we talk about such laws, it is a assembly to say less about the advocates and advocates of these issues, but what this law, which I say is rightly made, in terms of harmonising with the regulations of the European acquis, it can have great implications for the Croatian economy. We can see this from advanced countries, let's say one of these countries is Switzerland which has far gone, there is Austria, for sure, there are countries, which by truth, by nature, by their tourism, that is angle. Winter tourism, ski resorts, may have more reasons, or so it seems, more reasons for developing this kind of transport, however, Croatia has, the Mediterranean has sea, Croatia has national parks, Croatia has many natural resources, beauty that can be covered by this law. Of course, here you as the Ministry of Transport are doing your job, however, you can't do it yourself, if you don't include the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Economy and that this law lives in practice, because what happens to us and what turns out to be true on several occasions is the moment when an investor appears, and given the high mistrust of citizens in the institutions of this country, then it's regularly suspected of concessions, because in concessions it's spinning, not as big money as in public procurement, but there's some money going on, and people think that it's all set up to make a profit, and in a way that it's finally respecting everything that should be done. In this sense, the authority mentioned in this law raises doubts in people, but we must admit that this law could not be done without that provision, if we are to achieve the goal. And it must be clear to people, however, the institutions must do everything to make these processes transparent, because first of all, if we want to develop tourism, then there is a question and sport, and even public transport that some colleagues and colleagues have mentioned, because there is no longer a negligible role of cablers and in public transport, especially in cities, there is an example of Zagreb, where traffic traffic is extremely large, and Zagreb, if I can now expand a little topic, there is no more serious roadway, because what we call the bypass of the City of Zagreb, there is no more bypass of the City of Zagreb, it is a road in the City of Zagreb and anyone who travels, when traveling, and it has to pass through the City of Zagreb, business... which we do not have highways to get to highway A1 we must pass through the City of Zagreb, but back to topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like one historical picture, if there's time, and there's, I don't know, you've heard about Gutman's railroad, it's a railroad that went from Osijek, across Valpov, Belish, Lower Miholjca to Orahovica, and on the other track it went towards Voćin. It was citizens in 1890 and primarily due to the exploitation of the forest and on these foundations was actually the wood industry, because the wood industry was the development of that railroad. On one occasion, I traveled with my nephew who I studied with at the railway school, a young man, surprised me by his thinking, please Vice President don't give me a warning, but I'll tell you what he said, we talked about that railroad he said like this, "The monkeys ripped it out, they pulled out the thresholds, they pulled out the tracks, they threw it all in the old iron, there's a couple left, and the locomotives cut it up, there's another locomotive in Orahovica, I don't know if there's any more of these locomotives. Why am I saying that? A similar thing happened in the City of Zagreb with a cable car according to Sljemen, 1963 the railway was smoothed, closed in 2007, I read in the media because it was not worth repairing the electric motor, imagine. Of course, not getting into the fact that this wire was already worn out, not going into what state it was. In this law you predict that, you may explain it in the final presentation, that the reviews are carried out visually and hearingly, and it is clear to me that a steel rope can be seen and that experts can see it when it shows symptoms that can alert serious problems, but whether it is enough nowadays at 21st, whether there are other devices or mechanisms to examine such cablers and in this context also cable in the city of Zagreb. Someone here mentioned, Mr Bandic announces that by the end of this year, by the end of next year, I want him to have a lot of success as soon as possible because successful railways that would be built in the Republic, which would show a good example and other cities would certainly lead to the construction of cableways. And maybe one question for you, I'm not from this law, and it's about other special laws, when I talk about our national parks, will it be possible to build lifts? Here's first of all, I'm going to mention the NP Paklenica, the wire that would connect Paklenica down to the Velebit Canal. I think my colleague Pranic now told me in a conversation before this about Biokovo that there is already intention, well, it's a nature park, so will it be possible to build such wires? And finally, let me conclude, I will definitely support this law, and I wish you a lot of success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98921	Thank you. There's no replica, okay, thank you, too. And the last one will speak to Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98922	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with his associates. So in the second reading, we have the Wires Act. I'm not surprised that all of us, regardless of what side of the assembly we're sitting on, are talking well because it's a technical law, so it's a law that creates good preconditions that not only can the cablers be built, but also good conditions that they can be maintained, so that they can be taken care of. I have to use this place to show the satisfaction that in the debate that was on the first reading I pointed to some things and the promoter accepted it so lately this has been happening to me more often, so I'm surprised what happened here, but it's really a technical law and we're talking about it affirmably. It's hard to talk about the Law on Wires, it's hard to say that in the city of Zagreb without mentioning Sljema cable. Although at the level of Croatia there are 3 cableways that would be great one project, excellent promotion of Croatia if we went from these 3 cableways, it is Sljeme, Učka and Biokovo for the simple reason that the cablers are also the topic of the development of certain parts, topics and tourist offers, the topic of showing Croatia at all, so all those who went a little more to Biokovo know how it is necessary, about Učka we have nothing to talk about, but I will say more about the cablers of Sljema. Sljeme is the living room of the citizens of Zagreb, Zagreb. In 2007, 11 years ago, then, and the current mayor, in his good manner he removed the wire and said I would not know myself, burn or already what he used to say, here I am now removing it and a new cableman will go. In 2018, the city of Zagreb has a lot of hot museums, you have here near the Museum of Interrupted Relationships, so you have a museum of illusions that is very convenient for children, I think the time has come for us to have in Zagreb and the Museum of Unfulfilled Promises, which would absolutely be filled with exhibits, from cableways, via tunnels, via subways, so a series of things. However, the cableway for Sljeme is something that is necessary in terms of not only the functioning of the city, in terms of the use of space, in terms of the use of the green part of the city of Zagreb. Today we have the following case that compared to environmental science, we had the other day and the Environmental Protection Act, so the citizens of the city of Zagreb are now going either by bus upstairs or by car upstairs. It would be incomparable and better quality to keep Gracani down, so this is where you have a garage in which it was planned there in 2004, 2005 for 1,000 vehicles, leave the vehicle and take the cable car upstairs. But you don't buy a cable car in Bauhaus, you don't go to Bauhaus and buy a cable, or you need each other at all, by order you need to know what you want, whatever you want, and all the other things. And the same way when you prepare this project then this project requires first urban planning, then requires environmental impact assessment, asks for a location permit, asks for a solution to property legal relations, and then we come to a building permit and build. Likewise, I recently had a chance to see and read somewhere, and I study the city's budget carefully and says the mayor here I am going with the cable car. From this pay phone, which I used and the pay phone of the Zagreb City Assembly, I can absolutely tell the citizens of the city of Zagreb in this term of our mayor, you will not see the cabler, except in photographs or, say, when visiting Sarajevo, so Sarajevo restored its cable car, so there we see the cabler. The Sljeme cable is necessary. I will not talk about that there was the idea of another by-cell that the subject of the town of Zagreb was the subject of the town of Zagreb, so we who are a little more concerned about what it means. This hour are the prerequisites, there is a spatial plan of nature park Medvednica which is even in this spatial plan there is a path to research for this other side towards Zagorje because it was an idea to actually explore this route so that the cable would descend to the other side towards Zagorje. There and there is an urban planning in force for this area and for the route of the cableways. Now we need to work on and deal with property legal relations amongst other things. What exactly am I trying to say? I mean, this law gives you technical conditions on how to build, how to maintain. All I'm talking about is some other stuff, some other preconditions, you have a bunch of preconditions that you have to do in order to even use this law. These preconditions depend on some other things, these are about spatial planning, depending on environmental protection, depending on the idea of someone who manages certain cities to use the budget, depending on the skills and skills to use different funds, so the potential exists, the frameworks exist, how we know this is done, and all of this rest depends on some other things. It should never be forgotten, therefore, that the cablers have their own influence on nature. I deliberately mentioned Biokovo, Učka and Medvednica. It is three parks of nature and Biokovo and Učka and Medvednica. When you build a cable car, when you set up pillars, you have to work not only to assess the environmental impact but also to assess the impact on nature. But here I have to admit for many years I've been professionally dealing with it, I don't see a problem. If all of Austria and the ski resort work in national parks and in nature parks I don't see any reason why it can't be in Croatia, there are a little stricter conditions, a little stricter criteria, you have to make sure you don't really cut where it would be most technically acceptable. But these are always processes in which the profession, so on the technical side, says one thing, the profession that deals with environmental protection and nature gives you some conditions and those conditions just need to be respected. I would very much like the cableman on Sljeme not only not to see so by certain locations only the remains as it seemed, all technical elements exist, pre-conditions called spatial plans, no one can say we no longer have a spatial plan. But I don't use what the mayor uses let's work because that's not how I talk, I say let's do it. So, compose the hodogram, make and every time the cableman on Sljeme will be a year before the election. A year before the elections, everyone wakes up and then they talk about what's going to happen. Equally, it was interesting when the City of Zagreb Assembly needed hands and always needed hands for the budget. And then, of course, in good manners, there was inter alia intervention to increase the wire item and then the wire item was increased in Zagreb to 50 million kuna and then when you see the realization at the end of the year realised a million that roughly cost the plan and everything else. It's possible, the preconditions are here, it's about one very correct, good, technical law that gives technical elements but all I'm talking about is something else. You should want, you should have an idea, and then you should try to make something happen. I mean, when someone tells me about solving property legal relations, there's a law on expropriation that says that certain projects can be ruled out, but that's all I need to know, you need to know, and I've had a chance to see a project the other day... The garage that was supposed to be Gracani down where the first starting station of the cable car was supposed to be, obviously gave up because there was a big parking lot nearby that God gave to make and do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, in conclusion, I am really using this opportunity to once again praise the laws not only because you have respected my comments but also in my first reading, and we also said in our first reading that it is a correct, good law and it is good to respect the comments for the simple reason that it will be easier for you. It's easier for you, so if one of us already knows what the problem can be through implementation, you'll appreciate it because it'll be simpler for you. That's what I say every time, but the foundation of the cableways is really very important. Croatia, among other things, should invest in the picture it gives out, in a picture that can be a driver of certain developments and builds cableways. I hope the cableman on Sljeme will be, for now she's just one exhibit in that virtual museum of unfulfilled promises. And as we've learned many things, I'm afraid we're not going to Sljeme cable in this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98923	Thank you, too. Before I give my word to the motionary. ... But before the replica, I would like to welcome the students, with us are students and students of the Economic and Birotechnic School of Slavonski Brod with their teachers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's give them a round of applause. And now we can move on to replicas. [[Applause.]] The first is Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98924	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, perhaps we could motivate Mr Bandic to have gondolas in the form of fountains, he likes it, so maybe he'll finish it sooner. What I saw was the press taking pictures of this wire that was closed in 2007 because of an electric motor failure. That's a disaster, it looks like, from that Scorpion bar, he's now become a spider bar. 13 pillars, each of the 7-14 meters is gone, overnight, someone took it, the kids were playing and took it away. No one knows where those pillars are. They had copper, steel, whatever it takes. And that's what I was saying in the context of them tearing up Gutman's railroad, pulling out the wires, so I don't know what's going on in our heads in the Republic of Croatia. We don't respect anything we've created before and what we're building new is why we have knowledge but we don't have enough will, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98925	The answer to Mrs. Dark Taritash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98926	Thank you very much, Vice President. When you think about it, when I'm talking about things that happen in Zagreb and when I say it out loud, I often don't trust myself, and when I tell someone, he's freaking out to see if it's true. If you don't think it's possible, it's possible. The fountains are great it is, the mayor had a past term fetish on the fountains. And then when you see that fetish of his on the fountains and you think the fountain can't be anywhere, it can be. I once drove a car and someone asked me what was going on, I say fountain, I joked and it was true. Now the mayor has some slightly different fetishes that are even more expensive. That's what the citizens of the city of Zagreb pay for. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible in the city of Zagreb to see as you said children play, so the children played a little bit, so they took something away or anything. So it goes to that level that you're freaked out that you don't believe at all what you're saying. So despite all that, I'd like that wire to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98927	Time, Mrs. Dark Taritash. Thank you very much. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98928	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Mrak Taritash, the populists can make a promise, that's a fact and whoever's defending them, the journalists can write a lot of things, so here they wrote after 12 years of waiting finally moving a mega project of 250 million kuna. And okay, the populists promise, the journalists write but you're the city council, so you know that the foundation of every project is the budget. So as much as we really have money in that city budget or money to say here, the wire is moving. Clearly, in 2019 we do not know what the budget will be yet, but in 2018, how much can we take seriously something moves if there is no foundation in the budget and you have enough information, so tell us on what basis Mr Bandic promised the cable company and on what basis did the journalists write that the cable car was finally moving in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98929	Well, although it's only very, very far from the subject of this law that purely gives technical conditions, yes, as you said yourself, I'll give you my word, so let's continue with that subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98930	Thank you very much. I'm gonna go with the wire, so one time Mayor Bandic told me, I don't understand you at all, which I promise you, you promise, so you don't. So that's how it works. In the budget of the city of Zagreb, really, when you see the 2018 budget, the money was planned, 50 million kuna was foreseen. The realization of this is about 2, 3%, which means that nothing has been done, we'll see the budget that's going to be for 2019. But really on that trail, it's easy to promise. The budget of the city of Zagreb is used very interestingly, for different ways, for different purposes and for the way in which we also have the opportunity to see in the Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98931	Thank you. Mr. Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98932	Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I am using this opportunity through replica to join your praises of this Law on Wires, I think it is well-designed and will also contribute to the safety of passengers in cableways and that Croatia also has a high-quality area. But this theme of cablers in Zagreb, I was born Zagrebcanin, I was driving this cable car once, I was driving during the student days, and I'm really very sorry that already since 2007, so the city of Zagreb has no cabler on Medvednica, there are arranged ski grounds, but otherwise throughout the year this cable car has its visitors, today I would have even more from this number of tourists. So I join myself in really building a cable car as soon as possible, however pillars look at least in the form of fountains, just to be as soon as possible because I think it is necessary from an economic, touristic and any other aspect for the citizens of the city of Zagreb as well as for all others who come to Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98933	Answer, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98934	Thank you very much. So, really, this law is all about affirmatively, this is just one real technical law that solves a certain problem, and it's good that we talk like that and it's good that we don't use some other stuff even though it's hard to talk about this law and not mention that wire to Sljeme. So, my kids who are already 30 and 24 years old today and when I say do you remember when you took the cable car to Sljeme, this older one remembers a little bit, the younger one doesn't remember at all, and at some point these kids won't even believe there was a wire that went to Sljeme. I repeat once again, Sljeme is the daily stay of the citizens of the city of Zagreb. There was the most normal thing going on Saturday mornings, Sundays after lunch all year round. Because there are no cableways, it is absolutely for the citizens of the city of Zagreb to be partially denied but in terms of environmental protection, you go with cars upstairs, absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98935	Thank you very much. And as far as Uckki is concerned, we still have a deal to make on which side. Madam Secretary of State will have the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98936	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, here I thank you for supporting this law, thank you for the words of Parliament representative Mrak-Taritash, and I think she has explained in principle a lot of what the esteemed representative Žagar had as an objection. I would just refer to the fact that Article 7 states what Mrs. Mrak said, so on design, construction, use and maintenance of cableways, regulations governing construction, spatial planning, nature and forest protection and energy efficiency are applicable which clearly explains to us what documents you need to have in order to launch a project of cablers and construction. As regards the reflection of the cableway, as you mentioned, so this final proposal allows for the security of the cableway at the time of their construction, release and during their operation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As stated in Article 14, the cableways must be maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and according to a predetermined maintenance plan developed by the driver of the cableway and maintenance shall be carried out regularly and exceptionally, including, inter alia, preventive visual and auditory examinations, means the installation and subsystems themselves and the safety components of a particular cableway. And to conclude, I think that enough time has already been mentioned and explained all those mentioned under the law itself, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98937	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98938	Final proposal of the Law on Wires, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 357. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Wires Act. I find that most of the votes, 89 for, 10 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Wires has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98939	We now have the last law, today's law: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. So far, the debate has been conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I'm asking State Secretary Nikola Brnjak again to be seen on this bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98940	Thank you. It is therefore a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing an Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents. The Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic was established in 2013 and in line with the requirements of the EU acquis as an independent body, which determines the causes, which are the circumstances, which have led to the accident, and which are to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents in the future. During '17. The agency received 1012 reports of traffic safety events, launched 23 easier investigations into accidents and serious air accidents, 2 with fatalities, conducted a total of 12 eyewitnesses, launched 7 security investigations, maritime accidents, accidents, 39 eyewitnesses, events that threatened the safety of the railway system and launched 11 investigations. In addition to identifying the structure and circumstances that led to an individual accident, the Agency systematically monitors, analyzes all information on emergency events, and incidents in air, maritime and rail transport, and actively participates in the improvement of safety through safety... which she betrays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agency's in '17. g issued 3 safety recommendations for improving air safety, one safety recommendation for improving maritime safety and 11 for improving rail safety. The final draft of the law, which is before you, which is technically done in relation to the draft law in the first reading, is further aligned with the EU acquis and Directive 2009/18 on the establishment of basic principles in the investigation of maritime transport accidents in the section relating to the financing of the Agency, in order to ensure transparency and independence itself. Therefore, the possibility of funding the Agency's work, donations of funds or other funds is deleted. These Directives 2016/798 on the safety of railways which are termological and technical in nature. In addition, these amendments and additions provide for the possibility for the Agency to use experts to investigate accidents in the framework of permanent or occasional expert advisory bodies. The Agency employs only 7 employees and this law will allow for the necessary number of specialised experts that would allow for faster and better quality investigation. The following is what we propose to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98942	Thank you, Vice President, you mentioned the problem of safety in rail transport and here, I have come forward for the replica, to point to the state of our railways once again and to expect much greater investment in railways and rail transport, and from the aspect of safety, it is especially important because we often read statements that circular crossings are unsure that they are not quality-defined that the light signal has not worked, and this is particularly important here in the autumn days, when in Slavonia we often have fogs and for the safety of passengers, it is important that these circular crossings be quality marked, so the question is whether the agency has cooperation with HZ in this direction and gives recommendations that the circular crossings need to be further provided, arranged for the safety and the people who traffic across the railways, so please answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98943	Thank you, too. State Secretary's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98944	Of course, we have good co-operation with HZ and HZ infrastructure, and a plan and programme for the safety road crossings has been developed, where all the crossings are detected and are currently in competition for about 80 million kn, for 50 road train crossings, and are still planned for 115 road train crossings which are also financed from the EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98945	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate, we're starting with Mr. Pero Cosic's Club in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, the only club that applied, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98946	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues, let me welcome the students and teachers from my town from Slavonski Brod before the debate begins. It is of paramount importance that the Agency for the investigation of accidents in air, maritime and rail transport is also functional and organisational independent of all bodies responsible for air, maritime and rail transport, and of all legal and physical persons with whom it could come into conflict of interest. Therefore, the proposed amendments and the law no longer foresees the possibility of funding the work of the agency from other sources, such as donations, funds, etc. already exclusively from the Republic of Croatia's budget. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to the law enables the Agency to use accident research experts in the framework of permanent and occasional expert advisory bodies in each of the areas of investigation of the accident from its jurisdiction. For their fees, funds will be provided, as I said from the state budget and the good news that this has been found, an adequate solution for the involvement of experts, when there is a major accident, a more complex and demanding accident, the agency has significantly more work to do and there must be an opportunity to engage experts from a given area, where appropriate, the agency increases the permanent no. employees and work will be quality and professionally done. On the other hand, it is a very professional job for which a professional advisory body is required and it was indeed necessary to ensure this possibility in law. Furthermore, the bill continues to align the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the EU in part of a survey of maritime and rail accidents, I would like to recall that the Agency is conducting security investigations with the aim of and tasking the identification of accidents and thus issuing a safety recommendation. In addition to national accident and serious accidents in air, maritime and rail transport, data on events ensuring traffic safety are also entered, so there must be no accident, but some event that could lead to traffic endangerment, i.e. an accident. Thus, from 2016 to the end of 2017, 282 information on events at sea has been entered into the national database in maritime accidents and 2963 cases have been recorded in the national database of accidents and serious aircraft accidents for the period 2014 to 2017. 2017 3798 events on air safety threats. This is indeed a large number of events that happen daily in these three transport sectors. I think few people know that 15 days ago, so on October 2, there was a serious accident of aircraft type Boeing 737 in the air space of the Republic of Croatia, it was a plane flying from Istanbul to Paris with 172 passengers of French and Turkish citizens, 6 crew members and entering the Croatian airspace that announced an emergency and requested a rerouting, or landing at the airport of Franjo Tudjman, namely there was a minor fire that was accidentally extinguished, one passenger sustained minor physical injuries, all due to the explosion of an electric cigarette of a passenger. An aircraft accident investigator from our agency went out on the ground, made an eyewitness and gathered information, and after a complete security investigation, the results will be publicly published on their websites and I think it will be interesting to see the outcome of this story about a serious accident on board, and I believe that new safety recommendations related to electric cigarettes in aircraft will come out. So the security investigation is not about determining the guilt and responsibilities of the individual, but about preventing security measures that may occur in the future. We certainly need the Agency, not only because the EU requires it, but because we ourselves want to reduce the number of accidents in all modes of transport, and the most security recommendations are given in the area of rail transport, but most often in the case of safety at railway road crossings, tunnels, stations, a total of 30 investigations have been completed by the end of 2017 and 34 safety recommendations have been issued. From that number of security recommendations issued, 8 security recommendations have been implemented. A total of 48 air traffic investigations have also been closed by the end of 2017 since 19 security recommendations were issued, only 3 recommendations have been implemented. And at the end of 2017, of the total of 8 investigations into maritime accidents and accidents from the Agency’s competence 3 investigations were closed, and of the 9 security recommendations issued none were implemented. Unfortunately, the number of recommended safety recommendations implemented is not the same and it seems to me that too few safety recommendations implemented in practice and the question is why such practice is, why recommendations are not implemented and whether safety is increased at all if these recommendations are not implemented and implemented in various rules of procedure and procedures in these three sectors of transport. It might be good if the agency's recommendations were more binding, not just advisory. I'm sure there's more ways to increase traffic safety. Sometimes it seems to me that this problem is being approached in a partial way, not meaningfully and entirely. This is especially seen when we talk about the problem of Croatian railways, in order to maintain safety for passengers and property, the only safety factor on our railways is to reduce speed. Trains have reduced speeds, now from Slavonski Brod to Zagreb the fast train is going slower than 30 years ago and we can say that we no longer have a fast train, we already have a slow train. Security needs to be accessed differently, more fully, and therefore it is not a solution to slow down trains, but rather to restore infrastructure such as the immovable one, means stations, railways, and mobile ones, to get new trains, to introduce technology newspapers, to think long-term, sustainable and to comply with high economic security standards. And as long as I mention long term, I have to mention river navigation, on our rivers, sailing is less developed than it is in EU countries, but some development plans are being prepared, things will change for themselves, there will certainly be more sailing in inland waters, more traffic, goods and services, and therefore, besides maritime transport, agencies should develop espertism and for this type of traffic in order to be safer and faster, without potential accidents, of course more accessible and attractive to all users. Finally, I can only conclude that the role of the agency is great, that we need an independent body conducting security investigations and proposing measures to help avoid accidents, increase traffic safety and therefore the HDZ club will support this final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98947	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98948	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State and Associates, here I am going to look very briefly at this law that we have before us today. As you said in the introduction, the agencies were founded in 2013, by adopting this law with a basic purpose of determining the cause of the accident, but in order to prevent its re-emergence, i.e. to improve traffic safety, which is very important. You already said in the introduction that in 2017 the agency received a total of 1012 applications, so the most important thing in this law is that the agency is functionally and organisationally independent of all the bodies responsible for air, maritime and rail transport and of all the legal and physical persons with whom it could come into conflict of interest. Also here in the proposed amendments and additions to the law allows the agency to use accident research experts within the framework of permanent or occasional expert advisory bodies in its field of research, the accident from its competence for our work because we have seen that only 7 employees of experts have in the agency, here in this law we see a large part of the agency and for what it is competent but what is most important means to ensure safety and everywhere and all of us means that the purpose of the promotion of traffic reduces naturally and the number of accidents. And by the way, everyone's already looked before me at the number of train accidents. Unfortunately, the largest number of accidents occur at unmarked railway crossings. I'm sure the secretary of state will do a lot of work on this because I know for a fact that the railroad is certainly in her priority. Of course, here is a colleague named Ćosic, who looked back on the fact that our trains were slow, that we were running out of locomotives, which is now not the subject of this law, of course, but they can't be looked back. What I'm about to say is that almost all of our airports have harmonised their laws and regulations under these EU directives, and in the event of a God-given accident, all of them are eligible to the agency, but all airports have their own emergency services, meaning for rapid interventions, they are firefighters, a medical team, and it's very important here to respect the protocol for these situations. So after that, I give up the Agency to implement everything else and I welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98949	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98950	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the safety of air traffic and the importance of respecting the protocol. It is often seen in the reports that not only are technical reasons for some kind of accident, but there is often a human factor. And in order to avoid a human factor, these educations and quality professional staff are necessary. However, it is much more important that there be no accident, that the staff have a salary, that they have equipment and that their terms of the collective contract are respected. We had the opportunity to hear this summer employees of Croatia Airlines, ports, airports Zagreb were unhappy and wanted to strike not to respect their terms of the collective contract. So my question is, can we expect safe traffic if we don't respect labour rights especially in such sensitive jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98951	The answer is... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98952	Thank you. Dear fellow, of course, it is very important to respect collective agreements in all companies. Of course, the minister, the competent ministry found a common word and that the strike in Croatia Airlines was not there. I am sure that they will continue to work on respecting the rights of all employees, respecting the rights of the collective contract, especially when it comes to traffic, because everyone, meaning every passenger on the train, every bus driver, or pilot on the plane, is very important to be satisfied because they carry a large number of passengers and, of course, is responsible for the safety of all of them. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98953	And now for the last debate, there is Mr. Stypo Sapina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98954	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates. The Agency for, Honorable Representatives and Representatives, the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, as we have learned several times in 2013 and the adoption of a law with a basic purpose of determining the causes of maritime accidents and in order to prevent its re-emergence or to improve traffic safety at all. At that time, European legislation required the establishment of an independent accident research body, despite the Agency for the investigation of air accidents, was required both in rail and maritime transport. This is why already the existing Air Traffic Accident Research Agency has taken over the activities of maritime and rail accident research in 2013 as well. At a distance of 5 years, I must commend that decision, which was established only by one agency that carried out the research of accidents in all three sectors. In 2017, this agency received a total of 1012 reports on events related to transport safety from which an investigation into air accidents was launched in 23 cases, 2 with fatal consequences in maritime transport. In 2017, the Agency conducted a total of 12 eyewitnesses and launched 7 security investigations and carried out 39 eyewitnesses in rail transport and conducted an investigation into the railway accident in 11 cases. One of the essential tasks of the Agency is to make safety recommendations, and one safety recommendation and one safety recommendation have been issued in the area of rail 11 safety recommendations, based on investigations carried out in the field of aviation accidents in the past year. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents is further aligned with the legal acquis of the EU, in particular with Directive 2009/18 EC in the section relating to the financing of the Agency. Since 2013 this is the first amendment and addition of this law, the proposed amendment and addition of this law no longer provides for the possibility of financing the work of the Agency from other sources such as funds, donations and the like. One of the basic characteristics of the Agency is its independence, so transparency and independence should be highlighted and stressed in part of its funding. The proposed amendments and additions to the Agency's Law provide for the possibility of using accident research experts in the framework of permanent and occasional expert advisory bodies in each of the areas of investigation of accidents from their jurisdiction, the need to provide additional resources in the state budget for their work. It is estimated that these additional resources are based on an average of up to 50 new investigations a year and this requires around 90 million kuna to be provided from the state budget. The Agency has 7 employees and in a serious accident survey it is also necessary to engage as large a range of specialized experts as to what this law will enable and effectively strengthen the capacities of the Agency itself. I believe that the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents should certainly be maintained in order to ensure the independence of the body conducting the security investigations to determine the cause of the accident and to propose measures to avoid maritime accidents and improve navigation as measures to increase safety and rail and air traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98955	Thank you, too. Mr. Klisovic, replica. ... No, no, but the microphone first. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Pick another one if this one...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98956	Here we go, this one works. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm a little late, so I didn't hear Mrs. Secretary of State. I certainly think we should support this proposal, but when we talk about traffic safety in general, I wanted to ask Mr. Shapina, does it seem like the problem with the agency, the independence we support or the more the problem with the infrastructure that the Republic of Croatia has, is it more of a problem with the old traffic and the means of transport that we use and why we have various kinds of accidents? So are we actually focused on the right thing or is it an investment in the overall infrastructure and total means of transport to ensure that our people are safer in transport?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98957	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, and now I'm terminating the session until 12 o'clock when we approach the vote. Thank you very much. It's 11:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98958	Final... Here you go, colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98959	Thank you, Chairman. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club to consult on the 12th, 13, 14th and 15th points, and now I'm going to explain why. In fact, these points deal with regulation or with HANFA or HBOR, these reports have been shrewdly removed from this Assembly, in fact, on the committees with the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure. I warned earlier from the pay phone that the CNB, led by Governor Vujčić in last year 2017, achieved 2.5 million pardons, billions of losses, the trend continued in 6 months. This year, when they made another 1.3 billion losses, which is a total of 3.8. So many generations of debts did not have Agrokor in such a short time, nor can any company in Croatia and not even the Croatian health system in which it leaks everywhere. All these losses have not made it impossible for the governor and his advice and the team there not to pay their bonuses, there is also a question of how many foreign reserves Croatia has, as it manages, so here I also call on this opportunity to call the governor here, you have as president the opportunity to put the report on the agenda when you want, if that happens, we have a tool to collect signatures, and then to find instruments for impeachment, because in this House it is ultimately elected not by us, because we are against his work all the time, so I am looking for a pause to vote on these reports of the Croatian banking system and regulation of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98960	Thank you. Comrade Sinčić, you will be given a break just looking for one point before these points came to order, so we still have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 383, so we're going to vote that and then you have a break for these points you've been looking for. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, please vote. I find that most votes, 89 for, 12 abstentions, have passed a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents. We are now going to take a break, continue with the vote on the Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2017, continue at 13, 28, please be precise, we have only a few points left. It's 13,19 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:26 A.M.]] So that's... Are you a Petrian elementary school? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I welcome you in the name of all of us. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Goodbye. [[Applause.]] I ask MPs and MPs to take their seats so that we can proceed with the vote. I think we can move on. It is now the annual report of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency for 2017, the applicant is the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, the debate is closed. This item of the agenda shall be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2017 is accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 76 for, 10 abstentions and 9 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body. Here you go, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98962	President-in-Office of the Parliament, can you explain to us the criteria by which you avoided the debate to be held at the plenary session on HBOR and HANFA, while putting other points of the agenda on the plenary session? Does he consider these two institutions It's not important or you don't want to discuss it to hide information about it. [[Adversity President: Col. Lovrinović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98963	My colleague Lovrinović, I must interrupt you, please read the Rules of Procedure and then report this to you now is a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning because it says which institutions come and discuss at the plenary session that is being discussed on committees. And with the sole decision of the board, some point is transferred from the board to the plenary session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98964	It's quite visible that you're doing Mr. President, the selection that some things the public doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98965	I'm begging you, you're getting a warning and don't do it. That's right, the board didn't propose, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure and you were on the board here I hear and you didn't suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98966	I'm sorry, I have to answer this one. I finally had to leave, there wasn't even a quorum, but please, there's no end to your manipulations, just laugh, gentlemen. But let the public know you're manipulating and you don't want to hear the truth about it. [[No, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-19-0.u98967	Comrade Lovrinović, please sit down. You've had opportunities to suggest, you haven't suggested, and now here in public, you're accusing others of being guilty of something you haven't done, so please. We are now going to the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2016, the applicant is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the debate is closed. Under this item of the agenda, we will vote in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next decision. The annual financial report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2016 is confirmed, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 76 for, 10 abstentions and 11 against the decision to confirm that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
