ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85585	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed parliamentary MPs, the esteemed parliamentary representatives. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning shall implement the POS programme with a view to enabling citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the housing issue under conditions much more favourable than marketable with guaranteed quality and completion of works within the deadline. Why did we go to the amendments to the Law on Socially Encouraged Housebuilding? Incentive housing proved to be a successful and highly accepted model, but we wanted to further adapt it to the needs of citizens. It is precisely because of the more efficient application of the law that needs to be adapted to the needs of society, as well as to market changes, that all changes and additions to the law have arisen so far. Thus, even over time, in addition to the initial provisions that allowed for the construction of apartments for sale under privileged conditions, the previous changes allowed the use of public funds for the construction of family houses and the purchase of building materials, etc. Programmes B and C. The new POS programme + which can be purchased with a particularly suitable POS credit line and finished apartments on the market in new construction and then the POS rental programme is launched. So far, implementation of the law has built a total of 8094 apartments in 239 buildings, into 75 units of local self-government. The total investment value for 8094 apartments is 4 billion 186 million kuna, for which the Republic of Croatia invested over a billion and 86 million kuna through the incentive funds. The program continues successfully and is currently under construction of 290 new apartments in 4 cities and municipalities, which are Fažana, Sibenik, we expect within 2 weeks a useful license and key handover, Punat and Varazdin. And recently construction was started in the town of Krk for 30 new apartments, and besides that, in different stages of preparation there are projects in 23 other local self-government units. As regards rent since 2015, the possibility of renting built apartments with the possibility of buying-in has been introduced. The total purchase price shall be reduced by the total amount of the paid rent if the purchase contract is concluded before the end of 36 months after the conclusion of the lease contract, and if the contract is concluded beyond that deadline within 5 years, the purchase price shall be reduced by 85% of the paid rent. To date, a total of 446 rental contracts have been concluded. As part of the programme for crediting individual housing, APN has so far realised a total of 61 loans for the construction of family homes with incentives from the Republic of Croatia. The POS+ programme has so far implemented 457 requests for the purchase of finished apartments on the market in new construction. These amendments to the law open up a possibility for the housing of deficit personnel in certain parts of Croatia, especially doctors, teachers, scientists. It is difficult in smaller areas, and on the islands it is almost impossible to attract and retain deficit personnel. At the same time, we are faced with eviction, especially our young fellow citizens abroad. Demographic policy requires the inclusion of all of us, and we have decided through our ministry to contribute to the greatest challenge facing our country. And what do young people need and want? We heard yesterday, they want optimism, they want an orderly country where they'll have a job and a roof over their heads. In such facilities they can create safe conditions for the establishment of a family, for their personal and professional development and I believe that Croatia 2018 must and can provide it. We're not magicians, and I know things don't work out overnight, and we also know we can't solve the problems alone. We need cooperation and concrete programs. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has 2 concrete housing programs, that is what is in our portfolio and with our powers we can and we want to do to help stop young people from leaving Croatia. It's about subsidising housing loans and the POS Act that I present to you today. I repeat, encouraging housing has proved to be a successful model of great citizens' interest, particularly expressed interest on the coast, in tourist cities, places where real estate prices have jumped. For many, this is the only way to address the housing issue under more favourable conditions than those that citizens can find on the market. What do changes to the POS law bring? The adoption of the proposed law shall ensure compliance with the legislative framework and a clearer definition of the concepts used, compliance of the highest prices with the real situation in construction, clearer definition of the rights and obligations of public institutions established by the unit of local self-government, shall be governed by the right of the Championship to protected tenants who use an apartment owned by natural persons. Faster launch of a new housing programme that would ultimately allow multiple benefits for the Republic of Croatia. Contribution to attracting deficits, resolving housing issues, contributing to birthright policy, home security and fostering construction and local economy, investment in construction. The current law provides for the right to housing through POS for two categories of civil servants, military and police, while there is a real need to allow the same for public servants and tenants in those activities in which there are some areas of the Republic of Croatia that lack employees such as health education, culture. The construction and spatial planning ministry conducted a survey where it was found that in smaller areas there is the greatest need for personnel from health and education resources. These changes will allow us to resolve housing issues for example scientists, doctors, teachers, and all those public servants who need a particular environment. It will certainly be easier not only to keep people in certain cities, municipalities, and islands, and to attract all those whose occupations are truly defined. Also, the existing law does not provide for housing to be equipped before it is put into service and it has also proved necessary to attract the necessary expertise. The problem would be resolved through renting apartments under particularly favourable conditions. This proposal accurately defines building activities that define the etalon price of construction while the costs of making documentation, expert supervision and water contribution are defined as other costs and are excluded from the Ethlon price built. The land and municipal infrastructure price rises from 20% to 25% of the building price, while the highest price spent increases from 140% to 150% of the Ethlon construction price. In order to comply with the real state of existing prices in construction. Or, to be clear, the maximum price of apartments in POS will be 9,000 kuna per square bit instead of the current 8400. We build POS apartments without profit, unlike private investors, and therefore the prices of apartments are lower and will remain lower after these legal changes. The fact is that POS's apartments in some cities, such as Split, are twice as cheap as those currently on the market. In addition, POS apartments are built according to certain standards and in the very quality of construction. Standards also mean that, for example, every apartment has a balcony and a building has a regulated municipal infrastructure. It should also be stressed that we do not build social housing, social cases are cared for by cities and municipalities. We build apartments more favourable than those on the market for those who want to settle their housing issue. In addition to the very price of an apartment lower than the market, I have to mention more favourable lending at less interest rates. As for the other changes in the cases where JLS are the founders of the agencies that run the housing under this law and we have 4 local agencies in Varazdin, Rijeka, Koprivnica and Dubrovnik, the existing law did not provide for insurance elements by JLS that the projects would be completed and ready to be put into office if unforeseeable circumstances occur. e These amendments define the source of public funds as well as the rights and obligations of JLS and related legal entities in the establishment of the reserve fund in order to ensure the financing of the building until complete completion. In the event that certain participants in the construction failed to fulfil their contractual obligations or part of the building was not sold in due time as well as due to other unpredictable circumstances. What will be the result of this final draft amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement. Even better results of the housing promotion project, the goal is to enable as many young people as possible, young families to solve their housing issues through this programme and give local self-government units a powerful tool to attract deficit personnel. At the same time, we want to give an additional incentive to construction, which is a multiplier of general development. With these changes, we align the law with other laws as well as with the prices with the real situation in construction. The final result is citizens who want to stay and build their life and career in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85586	Let's go with the replicas, first of all, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85587	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, your first line in the opening statement when you say this will help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia come to their apartment more favourably. This law has helped and will only help some citizens of the Republic of Croatia in some parts. In Slavonia, this law is inconclusive. We had a case in Osijek, you're familiar with that case in Vukovar Street where it actually turns out that the price of that apartment is higher than actually than the price dictated by the market at the time. A lot of you have stated, there are many wishes that this law should achieve, but I don't think that's going to happen because logic is the other way around, what people need, they need a job so they can have decent salaries and build their apartments or houses, and in this way we won't succeed much, and I'm afraid we won't solve the basic issue which is about this law, which is to curb corruption and we've seen in previous examples that there's been enough in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85588	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85589	The esteemed parliamentary representative, part of me agree with you, people need a job, a good job, a well-paid job, and then it'll be easier and easier to get to the apartment. But with this POS program, we allow municipalities and cities if they really need their initiative to have the state with its incentive funds, to help them with their land on municipal investment to reduce that price and I am sure there will be a lot more activation by JLS and surveying and starting to build POS apartments. They're 20 and 50 percent cheaper than the market apartments themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85590	Let's go to replica no. 2nd, dear colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85591	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Well, dear Minister, here I agree with you that you need to help your fellow citizens to get cheaper apartments but definitely maybe not in this way because here by these changes that I think are just so to say, more confectious i.e. Just to work out, everything is practically still on the burden of local self-government units. In the article there, not that the state can, but in my view, the state would have to secure land because if all the units of local self-government, and land, and municipal, and infrastructure and construction, then I don't see the meaning of this that includes the state. It is also an additional cost for local self-government units in Article 10. Why is the establishment of a public institution a cost, why should companies already established do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85592	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85593	Honorable parliamentary representative, JLS's task is to launch an initiative and make a survey and determine the needs and resolution of land, if the state has its land in the area, deals with a unit of local self-government. Here is the latest example in Split where the Ministry of Property decided to assign the city of Split to the land. We have many such examples and the state will give its land but if the local self-government unit has its own land on which POS is suitable, of course we will accept it and together with the local self-government unit we will build pos apartments more favourable than those on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85594	Third replica, honorary colleague of the Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85595	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Ministers, in your presentation you spoke about renting an apartment and we can agree that the rental project of the apartment is extremely important and with the employment problem they spoke about and thus provide the possibility for young people to decide to change the destination of life if we have a lot of apartments in the rental. I'm interested in all these projects that are currently under way, and you've listed a series of projects that are, how many apartments are scheduled for rent because it's extremely important for a team more in some big cities would be extremely favourable and important, so I'm interested in the projects that are now in place, how many of these projects are scheduled to stay apartments, so it's not going to sell at all but to stay rent apartments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85596	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85597	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, there are currently more than 450 apartments in rent with local self-government units talking, according to their needs, they define needs, we have done polls, we know where the needs are, and together we will launch this initiative. The law has not yet entered into force, when the law enters into force, then we will also launch a lease project for deficiting occupations. And we have here currently we are working on 24 projects where it will also be possible to rent an apartment if it will not be sold as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85598	Let's go to the fourth line, dear colleague Roscic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85599	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, you have said for my area one key problem is that in cities and municipalities, regardless of young people are not social cases and maybe if you compare incomes, they live better than in Slavonia, but unfortunately the pressure on the property is on the coastal area and it is very growing and it is simply impossible for young people to secure and resolve the housing issue when we know that only land, square land in Makarska, in Baška Voda, in Brele, rises and up to 1500 euros to 1 m2, so it is really very difficult in these conditions to provide ourselves with a housing issue and what has been bothering us for several months now, it is difficult for us and to attract a lab in the home of health because regardless of the pay and conditions that are being provided to these people and to the beautiful sea and sun, these people simply cannot afford the costs that simply in these coastal municipalities and cities of life demands, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85600	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85601	... We were four places back a month where real estate prices were extremely high. [[Specially enabled.]] I see exactly the POS, that solution to the housing issue of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85602	Let's go to the fifth line, dear fellow Weldergay, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85603	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. So here I'm going to say that I welcome this problem of deficit staff in certain activities of the state and public service, and I think that's actually the biggest thing that these amendments to the law that I also find rather unsettled in one piece, and that's the part that actually refers to the economy. I am sorry that we have not made it possible through the amendments to the law to allow POS to expand to those deficiting professions that we have in particular in northern Croatia. This is of course good for the assisted areas of Croatia that should certainly be helped, but you know that we are coming from northern Croatia, which we have a problem with deficit personnel in the economy, and we will also have to do something about it. I hope that in the future maybe through some other changes, through maybe different laws we can also put that problem on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85604	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85605	Thank you very much, esteemed representative. According to the current model of POS, according to the Social Encouragement Law, it is possible to build and build POS apartments together with companies for their purposes. We're just talking to a couple of companies who are interested in that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85606	So we've come to the end of the line, now we're going to the boards. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Space Planning and Construction, dear colleague Bernarda Topolko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85607	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. At the 19th session held on 30 May 2018, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouraged Apartment, second reading, P.Z. No. 286 delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 24 May 2018. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction shall, in accordance with Article. 93. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative stated that the proposed law sets the highest building price in the incentive housing programmes in line with the real situation in the construction sector, and that the building price is defined in accordance with the legal regulation in the area of construction. Furthermore, he stressed that the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are regulated to ensure housing for public officials and tenants and to launch a new housing programme under the POS programme for employment in public services for deficiting interests for which there is a need, especially in less developed areas. He stated that so far, around 600 needs have been expressed by the local self-government unit in the Republic of Croatia, but followed by a detailed analysis and processing of them in collaboration with other state bodies. He also stated that the differences between the final draft laws in relation to the draft law concern compliance with the final proposal of the Law on the rental of dwellings in the adoption process in a way that regulates the right of the housing insurance championship to protected tenants who use an apartment owned by natural persons. In the text of the proposed Act, the name non-profit public person is replaced by the name of a public institution and the documentation is prescribed which these public institutions or local agencies are obliged to provide to the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation for the purpose of proof of intended use and recovery of public funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, as well as the conduct of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. During the debate, the opinion was that the launch of a new housing programme for deficiting interests is a demographic important measure, but also indicated the need for better co-operation with local self-government units. The proposaler's representative expressed the readiness and openness of the resolution ministry for proposals and co-operation with the local administration to contribute to faster implementation of the incentive housing programme. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law in amendments to the Law on Social Encouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85608	Thank you. And now I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85609	Honored chairman, respected ministers, ministry colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. Amendments to the Social and Encouragement Law. I think the state intervention in the area of housing needs to be, that it can be good, but as it happens to us, it's a little bit of going the wrong way. POS buys those who have money, those who are creditworthy, those who have the possibility of their own participation, which actually says that the goal is different, and it is, for example, different. see the deleted provision on the ban on selling an apartment even though there is a public interest because public money is invested. The POS is designed to activate land in the area of local self-government units and address housing problems, leading to an increase in land prices and the acquisition of the highest amount. After the debate of parliamentary deputies was held, the ministry did not accept the proposals, although there were good proposals. We must conclude that the issue left only in the field of local self-government units to collect data on the housing needs of a unit simply does not have the capacity. There is little information and there are large regional differences. In fact, everything is left at the good will of local leaders who face a number of difficulties in the field. It is evident from the available data that most municipalities and cities do absolutely nothing on this subject. POS is only a drop in the sea of housing problems, and these changes will only result in the purchase of the price of the apartment. It is necessary to approach the systemic problem if we care for young people to stay in the Republic of Croatia and create a housing policy that will provide a framework in the long term and ensure stability and security so that young people with a job can resolve the housing issue in accordance with their needs. Today's situation in the Republic of Croatia is next. 11.21% of municipalities, meaning a total of 48 out of 428 have at least one model of housing. One-time measures, house donations, land, necessary accommodation, legalisation costs, compliance with the legal obligation, housing assistance, etc., up to the release and reduction of the municipal contribution, ensuring a certain amount of construction, co-financing of interest on the principal or return of real estate taxes. Of them 48 municipalities only one has POS and one POS is planned. The municipalities of Yalzabet and Punat. Of 127 cities, only 21 cities and 16.54% have one model of housing. Renting an apartment, reducing the municipal contribution, selling building land, necessary accommodation for up to a year, buying property in the old town centre and 10 POS apartments. Đurđevac, Novigrad, Ogulin, Rijeka, Rovinj, Umag Vis, Vrlika, Zadar and Zagreb. No county has a housing model except the City of Zagreb. I'll repeat, it's nighttime housing policy, and these changes will only lead to the purchase of the price of the apartment. What do housing measures look like in certain municipalities? In the municipality of Antunovac, for example, the municipality pays the cost of housing to socially endangered families. Is this a measure of housing policy wanted by the government of the Republic of Croatia, for the remaining citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Is that one of the measures? Let's say HZ Bukovlje, the younger families are completely free of the obligation of municipal contributions, which for the first time solve the housing issue, and one of the investors must be less than 35 if you want to stay in Croatia, in the municipality of Bukovlje. Then we say, let's say, here, she says, in the municipality of Draž, in 2017, the municipality donated the house to a young family and inherited it as a sinister property. Then she says, Yalzabeth, the municipality has conducted a survey and says it plans a job, if it's interested. Kloštar Ivanić, says, to families who cannot pay the cost of housing, we will grant a one-time aid of 650 kn and a maximum of 2 times a year. These are housing measures, what we want you to stay in the area of the Republic of Croatia, we're important young people, we'll give you, who needs to, says, the amount of 20,000 kn per purchased property. So you bought the property of a million kuna or 100,000 kuna, says we'll settle the housing issue. It goes on, Ledgrad, in 2018 they will give 15000 kn to 30000 kn, selling real estate for young people. Lovas has 4 apartments, 3 are already used, 3 young families are located, one is free, so here, for Hunter. I mean, I don't know, I could read this now, I really, just here, I'm saying, just 48 municipalities out of 428 have a housing model, it's 11.21 municipalities. Only 21 cities, out of 127 cities, have one model of care. So, it is unserious that we need state intervention, we need to take more steps towards units of local and regional self-government and it is necessary to deal systematically with housing policy, if it is important for young people, despite regional differences, to settle certain areas and to have systematic measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85610	Thank you. We're going to another club, respected Giovanni Sponza on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85611	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The POS has proved to be a quality project which, since 2001, when the Law on socially encouraged housing was adopted, has received good results, especially for young families and families with lower social status. That is why it is good for the state level in cooperation with local units, concrete programmes to stand behind young families and enable them to meet their basic needs of life. Because of the above on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, I would first of all like to stress that housing is certainly one of the most important components of social development, so it is very important that further favourable conditions, and I am primarily referring to housing prices, are more acceptable to the wider population groups. As there is an interest among citizens in buying the situation from the POS programme, I believe that it would be useful for the proposing to explain and specify the elements, which are why these amendments to the law propose an increase in the maximum cost of the apartment, as it should be kept in mind that due to the most low wages, especially work for a certain time the unresolved housing issue remains one of the greatest trials of our young citizens and families. Our club supports, which also allows the rent of apartments and public servants and public servants in these amendments, mainly because of the attraction or retention of the deficit staff. Our club also believes that in these amendments and amendments to the law, it was worth listing a provision that would regulate the possible reverse purchase or the right of first purchase to local self-government units and, in that case, when the users of the POS programme want to or because of their living circumstances, they have to sell their apartment. It is clear that living circumstances can force anyone to sell an apartment, but it is our club's view that units of local self-government should be allowed to buy these apartments at the price and conditions under which the people who used the program themselves bought them. This would be the most needed in those units of local self-government that have long waiting lists, because we know that in all municipalities and all cities there is no equal demand, but in such a way, especially in those municipalities and cities with long waiting lists, the problem would certainly be solved more quickly and quality. And in the end, I'm going to say that our club will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85612	Thank you, too. Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Davor Loncar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85613	Thank you, President of the Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia was withdrawn at the next rate of emigration and, in particular, young people and the growing number of children born,... in a legal solution, helping to enter the housing programme across the board, through a housing programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this law, which has experienced a lot of newspapers, has the task of finding as favourable models as possible to offer as many of our young families home as possible through subsidising loans to build houses or apartments. The Agency for Real Estate Transport, which is in charge of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, together with units of local administrations and their public institutions, calls on them each year to find solutions and locations that they can provide in the near future for the need to secure housing. Thus far, the APN has approved credit lines following the implementation calls through the business banks involved in the implementation of these housing programmes. The subsidy of credit would be granted to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have not resolved housing for up to 45 years of life and those who, for the sake of need, wish to build or purchase a second property. The repayment period is 31 years with effective interest and an extension of the period of up to 50% and for newborn children, with an extension of the repayment of the loan to an additional two years. The APN shall take over the total construction of the building into which all the costs of design and supervision, the cost of land and municipal infrastructure are to be borne in the jurisdiction of the units of local administrations or their public institutions participating in the implementation of the programme through co-financing. Furthermore, the law allows for the financing and provision of the necessary building land when it comes to the residential needs of the military, police, health care and others, state and public institutions for housing and deficit staff. It should also highlight the harmonisation of the prices of the apartment and the building land compared to the average selling price of... companies. As regards a public institution representing units of local administrations under this law, it is duty to develop the programme by 30.9th of the current year and to deliver it to the Minister for Transparency. Furthermore, it exclusively operates through public money, keeps records of each individual building and provides additional means for completion in the event of termination of the contract or unforeseen circumstances. When it comes to funds from sales and rentals, they are exclusively intended that APN and public institutions must use for further activities and housing of our fellow citizens. This law also makes it clearer to define potential other investment transactions in an equal position or manner. When units of local administrations provide building land, infrastructure costs and... The APN is returning some of the funds from the sale of houses, apartments and rentals, which so far has not been so. There was no exact definition of how to restore it to the local administration unit. Also APN if there is a need for housing can buy building land, but the price of it cannot be higher than 20%... prices built useful areas of the house or apartment, which also allows for solution and utility infrastructure directed by APN. When it comes to spatial planning documents, I accept that this is what local administration units need. I am confidently aware that in the Republic of Croatia, we now have dozens that have completed the plans of the second order for organised implementation of care through new housing zones that have all urban designs in relation to the present apartment of the settlement or village. I propose another newspaper to introduce in the Construction Act the possibility of building type objects for which there should be only one building act while everything else would be changing personal data or... permit details. Finally, I would like to appeal when such organised housing programmes are in question that, if possible, VAT is first reduced to construction material and construction services, the second allows the payment of connections through consumption for three to five years and the third to be credited to this model of care if possible with HBOR. The HDZ Club will support the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85614	Let's move on. It is now time to join the Living Wall and SNAGA, a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac. Since he's not here, he's losing his right to speak. So it's time for the GLAS and HSU Representative Club to be a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85615	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, State Secretary and Associates. We have before us an amendment to the Law on Social Encouragement Building. It is a model that was introduced in Croatia at the time when the real estate market went up to stabilise the real estate market, in order to allow all of our citizens to have opportunities under certain conditions to obtain their real estate the POS started. The conditions in Croatia have changed since then, and this law should be seen in this context. So he has a number of changes that are more due to the need to comply with certain regulations, because of the simplicity of the terms, but we need to look at the conditions that are really changing in Croatia. When you ask young people what they will see their future, we have had opportunities and yesterday we see a very interesting survey that was made among young people who moved out of Croatia among families and from that survey there is much to be concluded and seen, then young people getting real estate is not their first priority. They'll decide sooner if they make good money that they have to spend on some kind of schooling, for a trip. Why? For the simple reason that tradition in Croatia was to have its real estate. The tradition in some other EU countries is not like that, and when compared and said that we should introduce a property tax it is very logical from the aspect of a Netherlands where they have no need at all to acquire their real estate but live their whole lives in rent or in some other conditions and then, of course, they say it is a wealth from which you can and do so. It was different in Croatia. Those who long remembered, and there is enough head sitting there to remember long enough, about the loans that were at the time of inflation when you credit for the apartment could return de facto from the amount of one lunch was a loan for the apartment, but things changed and should look at everything in the new context that changed. This law allows for two things that I read that matter. One thing is that we have certain rental apartments and I agree here with all those who say we need to see all the deficits, and another thing that's in this law to try out that protection of the tenants through the POS project and this law on renting and protection of the tenants, it's going to be me, I guess a much, much worse debate in this Assembly, probably on behalf of the clubs everyone's going to talk about that full minute thing won't be enough. However, a step that needs to be made in the future and a number of new things to be considered. An old one is really encouraging the rent, seeing with what opportunities the state can make, some cities can make apartments for rent. About 50% of the Vienna housing fund, otherwise our mayor, Mr. Bandic, who we do not know for what reasons he went to Rome, would have gone to Vienna so many times, but the city of Vienna has about 50% of its housing fund. And then she has rents and rents it and gives it at different prices depending on where they are and depending on the apartment, or on the area of the apartment we're talking about. So that's what the city of Vienna did, and he didn't need the role of the state. In our case, however, the situation is slightly different and what we really need to take care of the changes that have happened and see that the state through its rental project actually encourages the rental because that way you allow people to actually work in Rijeka and then get a better job in Osijek and go to Osijek and know that they are safe. The same way that POS has regulated the real estate market in a certain way, i.e. the housing market, as when the state decides to take a bigger swing into the rental project, the rental will also regulate the problem of the one grey zone. When you look at it, we all look at the media and we follow it from a lot of different things, I always follow it about construction because that's what I do all my life, so when you see the problem of renting, especially in tourist destinations, that you can no longer rent an apartment in one Split, then it's something that the state really needs to regulate for your own. There's one country we're all very much looking at, and it's still from what we'd like to be like Switzerland. Switzerland has rental apartments that are built from pension funds, maybe it's one of the models, but something that needs to be said for sure in this Assembly and what needs to be discussed is next. Take a look at today's newspaper and see how much we're opening up a new quota for foreigners who want to come work in Croatia. Let's face it, people moved out, we need labour, we need workers. The other day I met a colleague who works in a Croatian company that works in Sweden, or reconstructs buildings to improve housing conditions, after which they got a job in Germany and I ask how it is with workers. He says no engineers, no workers, we hire Poles there and they work and fill their pensions and all the other funds. Look at tourism, in tourism, look at the few of us workers we're looking for, and now we're looking at cleaning tourism, the auxiliary staff of everything, and the question is where these people are staying, so it's kind of an occasional apartment. But let's face it, no matter how much we stand for it, or how much it can open the next wave of problems. Demography full of mouths, how do you solve the demographic problem? There's no magic wand, and we're not going to solve it now, and when we set up a smart strategy right now, the first results of that strategy can be seen in 30 years, and we have to say it the same way, but we have to set it up and we all have to stick to it, and not when someone else comes to start with it, so that's not a good project, but another project. In the demographic project, it is extremely important that security, stability, safe conditions, conditions that are not changed, the possibility of employment, it will be another topic and the possibility for people to have their decent living and housing conditions and there is the role of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning at the moment to recognise that things have changed, to recognise that they have to take a step in this regard and recognize the next fact. The other day, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Mrs May, you know that the VB was closed to labour from Croatia and they were the last to stay, she said she would open the labour market from Croatia and will rent apartments under extremely favourable conditions, not to say maltenes would only be paid for directing. If we want to be a country that's attractive and a country that's friends with its citizens and citizens, then that's how we have to think. So, first and foremost, we have to ensure that people stay, that they have secure stable conditions, but we also have to be aware of the fact that we're going to have to hire foreign labour. That we will have to set certain conditions for them, that these conditions that we will have to set will also depend on tax policy, but in order to be attractive we will have to enable them to take apartments for rent, i.e. that states or cities offer a certain number of housing funds. This housing fund that certain cities have kept like a snake's feet. I saw a letter that went from the ministry, which actually went towards the cities to see how many more cities have on their lager, that's what big cities have, small towns don't have. But the city of Zagreb, you can ask for three times the data and three times you will get different information, that means the cities don't want to talk about it. However, it is a project in which we should go together. So when it comes to these amendments and the additions to the law as we have so far spoken about POS, you have to offer our citizens a fan that whoever wants to buy, the one who wants to buy a ready apartment to buy, the one who wants to take an apartment for rent, that they can take. However, a new niche needs to be opened, and it needs to be discussed seriously and seen. These are apartments that are for rent, which will be property or state or unit of local self-government that you will offer to our citizens who decide their place of life for good work to change, so they know that it is safe for them, but that should be considered when the state of Croatia at one point says that it has increased the quota to 5,000 workers and to 8,000, so when it increases the quota to 10,000, then it must know what the consequence is. Do these 10,000 people come with families, do they come to occasional jobs, do we want to hire them all the time, these are things to take care of. And that's to you, it's now one situation where the Honorable Minister said by the POS project we'll allow the construction sector to work. Everything, OK. The construction sector has no labour force. In order for the construction sector to work, it has to have the workforce to come from another country, you have to enable them to have a good salary but you have to put it somewhere. So that's where you close one lap, but that's what you should think about right now. We live in a country where we think when things happen. God forbid it happens in this country that the fewer people go out, God forbid the workforce comes because coming the workforce will improve everything but for that we have to create, we need to know what the criteria are and we need to create the conditions for people to come to us. I met one of my colleagues the other day who has a respectable construction company, and I asked how he says great, no more work, I say great, he says but I never find it harder to work. I pay my builder around 1,000 euros. And he's more on Monday, he says we're all set, let's deal on Friday, he's not at work on Monday because he's got somewhere else. These are the facts that we need to look into, that's the fact that we need to, now find a solution, these are the facts that we need to think about right now. And to conclude, we will support these amendments to the Law on POS, but what is the task of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to consider a step further, to think about the changes that are in the Republic of Croatia, the changes that are there. They're not, they're not announced, they're here, and we need to give a certain answer. I'm sure it can't just be the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, that response must be at the government level, at the level of coordination and give a strategy now, which means being a country that is a friend to people who live but who is attractive to someone else who will come and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85616	We are now going to SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Stjepan Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85617	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. This amendment to the Law on Social Encouragement does not touch on the substance that should be discussed here. In fact, these 35 articles are actually cosmetic changes that will not improve the fact that this law did not bring the desired effects particularly in smaller environments in which they can hardly be triggered by bulky and expensive mechanisms that would have a greater impact. The purpose of social incentive housing should not be reduced to the transfer of land costs of municipal infrastructure and other infrastructures, the costs necessary to connect the building to local self-government units. The amendment of the law offers the possibility for units of local self-government to establish public institutions to carry out the tasks referred to in Article 9. In Article 10a, local self-government units have been able to establish non-profit legal entities so far, and this has been changed to public institutions under the necessary specific law governing institutions. These institutions are too expensive especially for small cities and it is not logical that numerous local institutions are established along with the already established Central Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. In doing so, it is obvious that the legislator is trying to decentralise jobs, costs and risks and potentially successful examples of pointing. Isn't that the reawakening of a new administration in a situation where the public sector should be reduced as much as possible? Lands owned by units of local self-government are of concrete commercial value and can be sold at public auctions and sales money to build facilities and lasting values such as kindergartens, schools and other public facilities for which the construction can and can be co-financed from EU funds. The land owned by cities is a very limited resource which is not enough to involve units of local self-government in the POS system. Also, buying private-owned land for this purpose, I think that all of you agree is not economical. The question is how many new apartments are actually needed, except of course for the needs of so-called. staff apartments for the accommodation of doctors, professors and other necessary professional staff in small environments that should be attracted to the assignment of apartments and the provision of average earnings. The need to build a certain number of apartments that would remain owned by local self-government units should also be considered. Still in our midst is the habit of owning a property for a large majority of cases. The new company housing law should allow socially stimulating apartments under privileged conditions, with the financial participation of the state, to be built in buildings that are not fully intended for social promotional housing. Let's say for example. to build a building of 50 apartments, 10 apartments is for social promotional housing, 10 for the housing of defenders and their families, 10 remains owned by local self-government units for long-term rent or as social housing, 10 for the purposes of highly educated staff working for example. in colleges, etc. and 10 for classic sales market. These projects are inclusive, they can apply to EU funds. The financial participation of the State should also be made possible either through land or through co-financing of infrastructure and in such mixed facilities. It must also provide for a legally sustainable possibility for such apartments to have a different price. The market for the market and those for socially stimulating housing at a preferential price. The law should also further support the construction of new settlements where the local self-government unit designs and foresees public content such as kindergartens, infirmarys, associations, etc. Because such major projects are aimed at the future and I also think that we need to be further encouraged because this is how we create and develop cities and create new settlements. The state must be more strongly involved in POS as a development of a category of entire territory in the way I initially said it participates in the essential costs of building apartments instead of simply dropping those obligations in this process to a local level. The largest cities will be able to take advantage of the possibility of building apartments around this system because of a greater need for living space in the long-standing trend of increasing the population’s population in large cities. If this trend is to change and try to keep the population in smaller environments, then this policy needs to be changed and more stimulated by building apartments in smaller areas. This could be achieved precisely by a larger financial engagement of the central state in covering land costs and the necessary infrastructure as well as the cost of connections. Article 13 of the applicable law provides for the possibility of the Agency itself buying building land for the construction of dwellings and ensuring the financing of the organisation of municipal infrastructure and infrastructure connections in the event that the local self-government unit does not provide the same. I wonder in what cases the agency itself decides to invest like that? Is this at very attractive locations that guarantee good sales of apartments or according to political assessment? The law already in force in Article 30 provides for both construction and reconstruction. Upgrade and upgrade of buildings and family houses. This amendment does not deal with this topic in terms of a clearer definition of what measures could be taken. It is provided here for in paragraph 2 of the applicable law that the local self-government unit may also provide its financial resources depending on its capabilities and needs and in paragraph 3. it states, however, that, with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for construction, the Agency shall establish an implementation programme for the promotion of the branch and reconstruction of houses according to which it shall obtain the necessary funds for construction. Such a co-financing measure is really needed in our city where a lot of family homes are built and central state co-financing would really help. However, this article is obviously just a declarative nature because it is only about allowing credit borrowing to be made available to commercial banks, so I think there should be some extra work to be done because there is definitely room. In addition to Article 1 of the amendments to the proposed provisions of Article 1, the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation will indicate to the public the funds in the State budget in the head of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation which is referred to in Article 8. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement, set up units of local self-government under the Law on Institutions. I believe that the establishment of a public institution is a new cost to units of local self-government, and therefore this article should be reformed in a way that can be done by companies that already have a local self-government unit because, as you know, since 2017 since the start of implementation and encouraging housing, only 4 such agencies in Croatia have been established and these are mostly large cities, so this has not already occurred in smaller communities, smaller cities, now imagine Slavonia where people emigrate and for cities and municipalities these are additional costs, why would it not already mean those institutions that have done these things? This is certainly a smaller cost, meaning to register the activity, rather than provide business premises, to set up new administrations, and I believe that it should be corrected throughout the law because here is the practice that has shown you that companies owned by the city such as companies registered for the management of residential buildings, especially those created after the formation of cities and the termination of former funds in the residential and municipal economy, have in a way experience and knowledge to implement incentive housing programmes. Namely, construction and functional property reflecting and the state of the current housing fund in a particular city, the managers of residential buildings who have real and fresh information on the needs of the local population for new apartments are best known, these managers have received great experience in public procurement procedures for energy certification services of buildings, design and professional supervision, and with the management of their own works on residential buildings, and I believe it makes them ideal holders of encouraging housing and should not be set up new agencies, institutions. In this regard, it does seem indeed unfounded to spend the resources of local self-government units on the establishment of a public institution if the local self-government unit already has the basic legal personality, experienced employees and the willingness to take over the business of encouraging housing. The same Article provides that a public institution must develop a POS programme for the following year by 30 September of the current year. This is also in the event that this proposal remains with a public institution, it is impossible to make it impossible in this short time of 3 months. and establish public institutions and submit POS programmes for next year. So basically again we have these four cities that have established agencies, institutions, they can build and that's the trend I said, big cities. And, well, here's an explanation. What the draft law does or does not regulate, and in particular does occur in practice, is the transfer of responsibility for essential requirements for construction in case such housing buildings are subject to construction deficiencies or are due to poor professional supervision of construction when the APN has expired after the expiry of the period of 2 years... and transfers any further responsibility to the contractors of works, and the protection of the right of co-owners is very difficult to obtain project documentation and other corrections, such as contracts and the like, in the event of the need to file an application for the removal of deficiencies, and due to the very short period provided for by the Law on Mandatory Relations, 1 year to 6 months after the failure is observed. Well, often, such attempts by the mourned bad construction end in failure. Although this proposal cannot affect the deadlines and the Law on Mandatory Relations, it is proposed that all documentation from the POS of individual buildings be made available to co-owners, as well as buildings as new owners through the building manager or authorised representative, co-owner or entrusted with the protection of the local self-government unit, in order to make it readily available. As for the specific changes, I'm going to suggest some here, with an art. 1 paragraph 4 of the amended article. should read with the financial resources and paragraph 1 of this Article, instead of building apartments, it can provide building land, because I believe that this is the right way for the state to be involved, not for everything to be on local self-government units again. UZ Art.2 item 5 of the amendments, a percentage increase is proposed in the shown item 5 from 10 to 15%, the building price. In the case of an art. 4. the change in the cost of construction land is determined by authorised judicial assessors and legislators control the evaluation committees and not units of local self-government, so it cannot be determined in which percentage is contained in the etalon construction price. In addition, the ethlon price does not follow the real cost of construction that has risen dramatically lately, mostly due to lack, i.e. The outflow of expert personnel in construction. Art. 11th Amendment to be completed, in art. 13 is added to 3 elinei, if the units of the local administration prove ready to release the obligation to pay the municipal contribution to build a building by the social promotion system, the APN will buy the building land needed for the construction of apartments, at a cost that cannot be more than 25% of the reference cost of building the total useful area of the apartment in the building, which will be built on that land and will provide financing for the construction of the municipal infrastructure and connections to the infrastructure of the complementarity, which cannot be higher than 25% of the reference price of building the total useful area of the apartments in the building to be built on that land. I should add new amendments to the applicable law for me, and this should be amended. 6 paragraph 2 of the applicable law, which reads the units of local self-government for the construction of apartments, provides adequate building land, public infrastructure and infrastructure connection, i.e. it settles the costs related to infrastructure and connections, in such a way as to ensure that land and other mentions are provided by the State. Because as I said before, everything provides for the city, from so many building builders, then we're not competitive with them with a price and at the end of the day when you build POS, it turns out that the price difference is 100 euros, and there's a lot of unskilled building me than private entrepreneurs do, because they're in the interest of selling that apartment and they're watching, monitoring the building. In addition, paragraph 17 of Article 17(1) of the applicable law, the following words are ready to be provided, deleted, land and other assets for the construction of dwellings, and the release of payment of municipal contributions to the construction of buildings under the social incentive housing system is added. I definitely agree that the law needs to be amended, and here, I congratulate you on this initiative, I support, however, I believe that the existing law, at least to some improvements, but as you can see from December 31st, when that implementation of the promotion of housing started, only four agencies are founded and these are mostly larger cities, smaller cities can't monitor it because they don't have the funds. And so far, you've said yourself, a total of 8 and some tiny thousands of apartments have been built in 238 buildings, totaling 4 billion kuna, of which the state has given a billion kunas of encouraging housing. That's... If they're updates, and I believe they took off yesterday, then it's probably true, because I see, one nod, one nod. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I believe it's true because it was taken off the page. Here, we'll give some amendments to this law, I believe you'll support them, and in the sense that the law is really the way it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85618	Let's move on, now it's HNS's club, dear colleague Bernarda Topolko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85619	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing, a second reading. P.Z. No. 286. The HNS Club will support the final bill. The first law on socially encouraged construction was passed by the Croatian Parliament at a session on 30 November 2001 and has experienced 6 changes to date. Social promotional housing, is carried out by building apartments, i.e. residential buildings, organised in a way that achieves a meaningful use of public and other means of cost-covering, ensures the return of those funds, and allows the sale of apartments, with the calculation of payments on affordable terms from marketable interest and repayment deadlines. To date, law enforcement totaled 8094 apartments, 239 buildings in 75 units of local self-government. It was said that fewer environments were not interested in building POS apartments. However, I can say the following situation, in Međimurje the municipalities of 2770 are working on a project of 96 POS apartments in 3 stages. In the first phase, 36 apartments will be built, for which there is interest and there are buyers. In 2015, the possibility of renting an apartment with the possibility of buying the same bill will be introduced, allowing renting housing to public servants and tenants in line with the needs of the field, enabling the launch of a new housing programme in accordance with the needs of environments at all levels, cities, municipalities, counties for deficits, doctors, teachers, scientists and all others showing the need. We are witnessing that the town of Dubrovnik has already called on several occasions for a pediatrician, which it cannot obtain, in Split a few days ago we heard that about 150 doctors are missing, or 130 for professional training and doctors. And I can't find them, I can't find them because of the high cost of renting an apartment. This law aims to enable as many young families as possible to resolve their housing issues. This proposal also regulates the right of the Championship to protected tenants who use an apartment owned by natural persons to provide housing and thus comply with the final proposal for law, amendments and additions to the Law on the rental of dwellings under the adoption procedure. The name of a non-profit public person in the text of the law shall be replaced by the name of a public institution and shall be defined in Article 10a that a public institution may establish a unit of local self-government, that a public institution shall operate under the law governing the institution, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the unit of local self-government. The public institution is also obliged by 30 September of the current year to build a POS programme for the following year and to deliver it to the Minister who, within 30 days of the delivery of the programme, gives consent to it. The public institution in the construction of apartments operates through public funds and funds supplied on the capital market, from business banks and other financial institutions, from the purchasers of apartments and other persons under the provisions of this law. Any financial operations of a public institution shall be conducted separately and shall be regularly quarterlyly reported by the APN. The unit of local self-government in whose jurisdiction the public institution is obliged to provide funds in its budget and to finance construction by the end of the process in case of appointment of some participants in the process. This bill accurately defines building activities that define the etalon price of construction, while the cost of making documents is professional... These water contributions are defined as other costs and excluded from the Ethlon price of buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The price of construction and municipal infrastructure is increasing from 20% to 25% of the building price, while the highest price of the apartment is increasing 140 to 150% of the building price, and in order to match the real state of the market, the maximum price of POS apartments will be 9000 kuna per metre square, instead of the previous 8400 kuna per metre square metre. I note that in some areas of the Republic of Croatia, it is about the price of construction on the market, so perhaps you should consider another variant since we know that a price per square metre can be bought somewhere, or an apartment per square metre of 1200 euros, that's about it. The Minister in charge of construction works will adopt a regulation for Article 30b of this proposal, defining that the APN participates in the construction of rental apartments in its possession to address the housing needs of persons employed, police officers and other state and public officials. The APN shall rent it for a specified period in accordance with the rules laying down detailed conditions, criteria and procedures for the rental of dwellings, as well as the basic equipment of those dwelling apartments within a legal period of 60 days from the entry into force of this law. As I have already mentioned, the HNS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85620	Thank you. Now it's HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85621	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, Vice President with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support this final proposal to amend the law, not because we expect it to contribute significantly and significantly to the development of housing and housing issues, but because there are definitely certain improvements that have not been in the existing law. I want to say here today a little bit, in general, about the problem of housing, building apartments and resolving housing issues, especially for young families. But before that, in any case, when we look at how many apartments were built, how many units of local self-government, then I have a question that it would be good to get total information about how many of these 8035 apartments were built in the continental part of Croatia, and how much was built in the tourist part of Croatia? Because somehow it doesn't make much sense to encourage housing in the tourist part of Croatia, not getting into that I have against something against the tourist part of Croatia, absolutely not, but I think that actually encouraging housing for people's stay in certain environments should be encouraged where people go the most, where the most people go from. And when we look at the current state in which 345 apartments are built, they are built in Fažana, Metkovic, Punat, Sibenik and Varazdin, meaning only one continental city of five at the moment. This is another indication that we are clearly targeting the wrong area of the Republic of Croatia for this problem. And I would really like to get such a full information if it is possible to send me to a club from the Ministry one working out of those 8035 apartments of those 75 local self-government units as much as there really was construction in continental, as in this touristic part of Croatia. If that's not possible, then I'm going to ask such a written representative question to make it clear to myself that this phenomenon is happening, which is not a phenomenon at all. People, of course, want to take advantage of the opportunity they've been given, and that's their right and opportunity, and why wouldn't they do that, but anyway, if that's the case, then we didn't hit the target, then we missed the target. I think that we should approach the problem of housing quite differently, and that in a way that the state is not the one that is competing with private entrepreneurship in housing, it doesn't make sense. It's much more valuable, it'd be much more quality, it'd be much more effective, and it would give better results if a model of support and interest subsidies were made to private entrepreneurs who would build apartments not only for sale but for rent, for rent. Today we have a situation where a huge number of divorces occur in Croatia, very young marriages fail. I'm sure it's one of the reasons why it's a burden when people get into a situation where they've taken out a loan, they're going to settle a housing issue, they're out of a job, something gets messed up, a marriage shoots, a family shoots at the end of what good it is. I'm saying this because we're talking about staying in certain areas and we're talking about labour migration, we're talking about people being able to work in Croatia today, but often they've connected to a particular area just by buying real estate, just by taking credit to that property. We imagined the situation that a young man who I don't know lives here in my Križevci gets a good job in Split, but in Križevci, meanwhile, he signed a contract to buy an apartment from an encouraging apartment, has a loan. He can't go to Split because there can only be a tenant and pay a loan for an apartment that is in Križevci that can't rent for enough money to pay for that loan. And if we had a model for private entrepreneurs to build apartments that could be rented, renting people with tenants in some way protected by law while there in that apartment, that no one could throw them out to keep the state and local self-government active, then such a man, such an apartment in Križevci, would get the same apartment in Split and continue to live there or vice versa. It would be a model that could give certain results and allow young people in Croatia to change their place of life because of their jobs and not remain captives of credit. It can be solved, it is not a model that is some kind of hot water, it of course works in the countries of Europe and the world, and I don't understand why they wouldn't start something like that, do something like that and start an investment cycle, start entrepreneurs in the building to start building and that they can also hire people, and still take care of young people especially families. Why shouldn't local self-government have an obligation and a task, but I don't think they should be obliged to do so by every mayor, mayor, and self-initiatively to grant rent in such apartments, I don't know for the first five years for a young married couple who wants to start a family who wants to live in that apartment. Of course, when we talk about a married couple to talk about a man and a woman, I always stress that there are no confusions because there have been a lot of confusion in Croatia lately. It is something to think very seriously about, something that could trigger investments, something that could allow young people not to fall into credit debt before they really decided to do it because they forcefully enter into such loans so that they could live somewhere and thus start that cycle and make labour mobility possible in the Republic of Croatia. When we look at the situation that a huge number of Croatian citizens have real estate that all these young people have parents in the vast majority who have a house, who also have an apartment that in a few years they will own that house and apartment because biology does their part. Then we come to another realization that in some due time this man who lives in such an apartment, this family living in such an apartment tomorrow may decide to live in a house that she inherited from her parents and free this apartment. I don't know if I'm saying it clearly enough, I don't know if it's the point, if I've been able to show that problem and any kind of desire and idea in which direction that would go. But I don't think this kind of bill will result in any more significant changes in the resolution of the housing issues of young people and will neither make any big moves or shifts in housing. We both need each other, and we need each other, and I think that there should be a real factor that allows for certain subsidies, which allows certain entrepreneurs to work towards people, and towards entrepreneurs, and in this way I'm afraid that there will be no major shifts. So we support the law, it has certain shifts but with these remarks that I'm making we don't believe that it will make any major shift in the overall resolution of housing problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85622	Thank you. And we're going to the last club, it's the club of representatives of HSS, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85623	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Here on behalf of the HSS Club, of course, it is welcome that this Law on Social Encouragement Building is welcome, for the reason that the introduction and it is said to give young people a chance to get to their real estate, to stop emigration, to encourage the construction sector and to give the tools to municipalities, cities, counties to keep the deficit staff in their territory or attraction. So far, have we managed to implement this model, although more than 8,000 apartments have been built in 75 units of local self-government in view of data published these days that Croatia is below 4 million inhabitants, according to data from Germany over 200 thousand people have moved to Germany alone, the answer has not been successful. And you can't just through this law and this model stop eviction and give young people a chance to get to their real estate. And me and the HSS personally, I'm very unhappy that only 75 local self-government units have participated in this program so far. And at first reading, I was saying that we're not all in equal chances, that not all units of local self-government are able to solve building land, infrastructure, connection and everything else to participate in this programme. And I got the answer also in the light of this final bill that there is already a possibility that the APN can, with the fulfilment of housing needs in a particular area, buy building land and finance construction infrastructure arrangements. This is my question if he did it and where, in which unit of local self-government from Slavonia and Baranja, there is an interest. Here I am today with several New City mayors and mayors, there is an interest, but simply so far they have not had financial opportunities in this way to participate in this programme. They are mostly here, as we see in the report that they are building on Krk, in Sibenik, which is what we, of course, welcome from HSS, because they also need to address citizens' housing issues. But the question is, what about other areas? Some models here were mentioned earlier by a colleague before me but I dare say from here that we must come up with such laws, such models that will bring the population back to Slavonia, Baranja, Lika and other empty areas. Because you know what your situation is in these settlements right now, you're probably going for a ride, so you see, it's being sold, it's being sold, it's being sold. And it's not just a house, it's an entire estate of 5 to 15 thousand euros. And we're not able to just solve it, and we need that state's help because if the state has invested over a billion kunas in these 8,000 apartments, our question from the HSS is how much it's going to invest to get life back into these underdeveloped areas, in what way. Because this law will, of course, encourage housing and we see that it is built on Krk, Dalmatia and some other urban areas where there is of course interest but there is a building operation that can do it. But I'm asking you what about the construction operation in Slavonia. Because a large number of crafts were closed because there was no construction operation. And on the other hand, I'm asking why the costs of designing and drawing up the documentation from the ethlon price under these 6 thousand kunas. More space is left for the construction sector, which is just a matter of whether they will use it to increase salaries for workers or for their own personal gain. On the other hand, this cost will be passed on to units of local self-government that are already unable to prepare themselves yet to participate in this programme, or it will spill over to the final customer of the apartment because we see that it collects the price of the apartment from 8400 to 9000 kuna per square. And our question is why didn't the price go down. Especially now that we have a government budget in surplus, it could have been more intervened that this price for young people is not growing. And that is why we are protesting this because we certainly will not give the young people a chance to get to the apartment because it collects the price of squares and especially when you see the average prices of apartments in 2017 and 2018 in different parts of Croatia. For example, in Sisak it was 2017. EUR 759 per square, 2018 764, in Karlovac from 859 falls to 840, so it is not only a problem in Slavonia but also in other regions, here in Karlovac where the prices of apartments and new construction fall, not to mention old buildings and buildings. So models must also be designed for those environments where the price is already well below those 9,000 kunas, which will be on the market according to this bill. So we in the HSS are asking to design a model that in these environments where there are already many apartments available, free houses that the state is more actively involved that we give it to young people under favourable terms through subsidized leases or through sales under privileged conditions, especially for those who have been blocked and who have lost their jobs so they couldn't continue to pay off the loans. See how to reprogramme these loans or those who have lost their only real estate give a chance to have the right of advantage in the market for newly built apartments through the POS programme. And of course there are still people who have moved from Vojvodina, from BiH to the post-war areas of Croatia, especially Okucani, Lipik, Pakrac who have not yet resolved the housing issue. And there have been a series of announcements that they will go to the possibility that these people living in these facilities, these apartments buy or buy houses, have not yet settled their housing issue. So here's my question: when will it finally be resolved that people know and live here in Croatia? Once again, I would like to repeat the question, where did APN buy the land, equip infrastructure and what unit of local self-government did it participate in this POS programme? I don't know if any of them are in Slavonia and Baranja and Srem, so here I call the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister says where he's going to do it. I think there is interest in both the County and the Vinkovci, both in Novi Gradiška and Orahovica, let's do this one step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85624	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next is Honorable Representative Branko BAčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with the Secretary of State and Associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. We also said in our first reading that we support the amendments to the Law on Encouragement Building which has already been implemented for more than 17 years and which, as one of the measures of resolving the housing issue in Croatia, has won its success, and on the other hand, it was certainly one of the ways of fostering construction activity and construction in Croatia in certain times. The fact that it is written in the light of the law, and that in 17 years over 8035 apartments were sold or given by the minister in the meantime and new information since it seems to me in Metkovic a short time ago they were given to use the apartments, so that the data relative to the explanation is somewhat larger and more favourable, speaks of the justification of this project which indeed solved a significant number of dwellings in the Republic of Croatia. The good side of this law is that it allows the purchaser of the apartment to have a cheaper price, the engagement of a local self-government unit, which is then clearly reflected in a cheaper price compared to the commercial price on the one hand, and on the other hand on more favourable terms of credit to the customer when entering into the resolution of his own apartment through encouraging housing. What needs to be singled out, and what is discussed in the first reading, and partly during this morning's debate to read and hear, is that this measure is certainly not enough, especially in the frames of demographic or reduction of the number of Croatians leaving and evicting from Croatia, so it cannot replace the whole package of measures that would help young people in Croatia to stay in Croatia to continue living there and not to emigrate. So we cannot view this law as a single measure, and in this sense we can also give criticism because it has not solved a number of other reasons to prevent emigration to Croatia. So this is needed by a number of other measures, not only of this ministry but also of other ministries, but if we are talking about access to improving living conditions for young people in Croatia, then we should also be able to observe other measures relating to housing such as the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, such as the House Savings Act. And then through these three laws we can speak as much as and in what way the Croatian Government, the Resort Ministry and how much as a state we allow young people to meet their living needs under favourable conditions compared to those on the classical market. I think that through these three laws, so besides encouraging housing, in addition to the House Loan Subsidisation Act and the House Savings Act, young people can be provided with more favourable conditions so that they can resolve their own housing issue. However, I agree with all those who have already said during the debate that it would be good to get rid of it, other than buying apartments, which is in rural parts of Croatia, in units of local self-government that do not have such capacity, made possible for family homes, this is already earlier by amending the law, one of these 6 existing amendments to the law itself has already been resolved. And in the meantime, this government has also proposed such an approach in the House Loan Subsidisation Act, where even more favourable credit lines allow, with credit subsidisation, it is possible to get rid of apartments in multiple units, family houses, and I think that in this project about 400 were, I don't know, already solved family houses when it comes to co-financing from this model. What I would have added, as I said in my first reading, is that when it is determined that about 8035 apartments have been solved and that the state has activated about a billion and 75 million kuna, then it turns out that it is somewhere around 135,000 kuna per apartment employed state funds, so it is somewhere around 135,000 kuna and about the state is engaged on this project. When you look at the House Loan Subsidisation Act, there you will see that based on the experience we have on 3,000 units that have been sold so far on the House Loan Subsidisation Act, then the state through this law sets out around 100,000 kunas of grants to housing buyers. So here we're talking about the engagement of 135,000 kuna per housing unit through the credit lines. Here in this second project we are talking about 100,000 kuna per housing unit in 4, 5, 6 years, how many states are singled out and helping the buyer of the apartment in that model that I expect the government will come here very soon to the Parliament so that we can continue this year with a project of subsidising housing loans. So what I'm saying is, this second housing subsidisation bill is obviously more tempting because in a relatively short period of time, 4000 apartments have been solved through that law, and here over 17 years we've solved 8,000 apartments and what's clearly more attractive in this House Loan Subsidisation Act, if we compare it to this good side, it's that the customer here chooses an apartment that can buy, on the one hand, and on the other hand there's no major involvement of the state, no involvement of the local self-government unit, etc. In the Law on subsidisation of residential loans, the customer comes to his commercial bank and practically solves everything in one place and it goes significantly faster, significantly faster. The bad side of this law is, bad, the law should be commended and supported and continued, but from the idea to the realization it can last often and for years until this whole project is solved, the excerpt of a building permit etc., etc. who's been following a potential customer since day one. So there is, I was going to say, there are in Croatia models that allow people, young people to choose the most appropriate way to get to their apartment or family home, and there are several ways to solve it in Croatia, so either through this law or by encouraging the Law on subsidisation of housing loans or through the House Savings Act. Therefore, the state offers a series of measures that can be realised in order to resolve the issue of housing more easily and cheaply. So here in this sense I would also ask Mr. Vice President that, since you have announced the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, that this year, since we are already in June of the month, and we know that we need to publish a public call and everything that goes with the realisation of the law that very quickly, if possible by summer, will come to the Parliament here also the Law on subsidisation of housing loans in order to implement a government programme that talks about this way of resolving housing issues in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85626	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Allen Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85627	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here is my esteemed colleague Bačić, and I have listened to you very carefully, and I agree with you that one of the bigger problems in Croatia is the departure of young people. Clearly, this law will also help young people not to leave us because one of the biggest problems is housing. But my particular question to you, but also Minister Stromaru, you know the problem of the builders, the builders have work to do, but they don't have enough labour. I talk to entrepreneurs every day, so it's not just the builders, but in this case it's the builders. I have one particular thing. An entrepreneur from Lomnica contacted me by e-mail, says 28.1. asked for a work permit for workers from Kosovo, until today no answer has been received, the problem is the embassy, the problem is the MUP, I can't get data from the MUP, and that lasts for almost six months now. It's something that's unforgivable. We can't talk about laws, about encouraging housing, and we don't have the opportunity to help builders with the work force that isn't in Croatia. Sorry about the length.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85628	You, of course, should have referred your question to your colleague Bačić, he will answer something, not to the Deputy Prime Minister. All right, here's Comrade Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Prelec, I agree with you that the problem of the labour force in the construction industry is pronounced and exists and expressed in Croatia. Somewhere ahead of the 2008 crisis in Croatia, construction was employed by about 145 000 construction workers, i.e. workers, at the end of the crisis in 2014 or 2015, it fell somewhere to 88-89 thousand, so an enormous number of construction workers came out of construction during the crisis, some moved out, some stayed out of the sector, and now that they are being encouraged, when construction in the Republic of Croatia felt the demand and need for employment. I agree with you that the government could react in a way and should react and have reacted to allow work permits to respond to this because the lack of labour in construction is a problem. That's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85630	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85631	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you said that so far, some 100,000 kunas of state money have been employed by the housing unit, which is good, but I said in my statement that it is small. Here, for example, a 50-square apartment will now collect an apartment by this new model for about 30 thousand kuna and a young man can't, with a salary of 5 thousand kuna, be able to borrow a loan and buy an apartment in this POS. On the other hand, we also have a problem with Slavonia where, let's just say in Brod-Posavina County there are 12 doctors missing and how to attract them when none of these units of local self-government are in this programme because they are not in the financial capacity to participate in this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85632	The answer of the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaović, I said that when the state's engagement is calculated in this Act, it turns out, that it is somewhere in the housing unit of 135 thousand kuna, and when it comes to the House Loan Subsidisation Act, then they are grants by one housing unit on average about 100 thousand kuna. Therefore, these are data that are easily calculated on the basis of the State's invested assets through one of these two measures. Of course, it is always small and it would be good if it were more, and I hold that according to the House on subsidisation of housing credits, where you can enter a home or family house under very favourable conditions, that is one solid measure. It is not possible by one law to solve everything, I have said it before, it takes a series of measures that will allow young people to remain in these rural areas outside the large centres, although the outflow of young people and large centres is noticeable, not just from the edges of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85634	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85635	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Bacicu, you were talking about the participation of local self-government units in the encouraged housing. Here, in Dubrovnik, we know that the most profitable square that can be obtained on the market for such an apartment is net 1800 euros square. So I would say that probably in the city of Dubrovnik as things are now, there will be one model of Dubrovnik housing that will not enter into the framework of this Act, nor what comes under the authority of your ministry in this sense, I would also propose to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister a meeting in the city of Dubrovnik and all other units of local self-government that are specific in order to find a common model of ministry and city to help young people and young families, respectively, to get to their squares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85636	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Putica, I agree and know the project that the city of Dubrovnik plans to develop in view of the enormous price of a square metre apartment in Dubrovnik. For young people, especially those of interest when they are deficited, and what is mentioned earlier by my colleague Vlaovic, there is another way to help in the realisation and construction of such apartments and I am here and I propose and join your request that the resolution ministry together with the city of Dubrovnik, numerous units of local self-government that could be included with their own resources of their own budget to provide even more favourable conditions for young people to resolve the housing issue. It has such projects, it has such ideas, and I think it might further facilitate the resolution of the housing issue if more units of local self-government are involved in resolving housing issues to interested citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85638	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85639	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, it is evident that in urban areas the most accessible, therefore the most developed encouraging housing building. However, the prices of apartments are the highest. Now, there's one model that's in the law, but unfortunately it hasn't revived enough because it's not encouraging enough and it's allowing young people to upgrade or rebuild family homes because at the moment when someone would do an analysis, then you'll see how many family houses are staring empty or if young people go somewhere else, simply when parents die that house is a wreck. Because if we give the country, if we give communal infrastructure to build apartments, if you would... part spent on co-financing of interest rates that are currently low and little popular, I think they would achieve what we have because at this point Croatia definitely has a terrible housing potential in the family houses, and we are pushing something where apartments can be sold without a problem because they are terribly expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a relationship somewhere 1:3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85640	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have already discussed and encouraged the government in a number of amendments to this Law in the same way that you are encouraging the government to take greater emphasis on solving and enabling young people not to enter, if they are not interested in buying apartments but to turn more towards solving the construction or construction, reconstruction of family houses. It exists in laws, but apparently it did not revive it as buying apartments. And I agree with you that perhaps with one addition to engagement, with even more favourable conditions could be allowed where there are no apartments, where there are no more residential buildings, to engage as government, but also as units of local self-government to allow these people to build, offices or abandoned buildings or decide to build their own family homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85642	Thank you very much. Before I give my next representative a word, let us welcome to the gallery students of Gracac High School and their guests, students of the international exchange program ERASMUS... And the next individual debate, she will be a respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85643	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to say a few words to the introduction that, perhaps, the standards of encouraging housing should be improved a little bit. It should be prescribed, regulated, that such properties, such housings, when built in certain residential buildings, buildings, must have a belonging content in the form of playgrounds, green areas, that they should insist on sustainable energy, on solar energy, on solar panels. That it may be possible to enable those buildings, which have already been built in POS mode, to mean by encouraging housing, if not at that time, energy, efficiently, expressed in an energy efficient way or that they do not have sufficient protection of the building, to make heating in the building itself more quality. To maybe make it possible for these people, through new potential housing, to fix those things that weren't good on their buildings, at the time they were built. I know from experience, I talked to people, who weren't happy with these buildings, which were both leaks and floors were expressed, so they were humps and doors weren't well made, there were various problems with these buildings. They're not citizens in one standard that was satisfying. These standards should certainly be regulated by law, so that it no longer happens in the future. There is a need to organise some good surveillance, so this is a quality check. But that's not what I want to talk about, the main thing I want to talk about is the amendment I gave. There is, in fact, a certain part of the people, who, due to the life situation, came into such a situation that the property purchased by someone, with some credit, had to be sold, for that reason, that the loan would be returned, so people have no real estate at all. They bought real estate, the real estate had a mortgage, they got into life problems, and they ran out of real estate. So I think that such people should be allowed, also the right of the real estate championship, by encouraging housing, if it wasn't for the first time it was encouraging housing. So, I propose that in Article 21(2) a new subparagraph 3 be added to the priority, to those who have the right advantages, in buying, in real estate, through encouraging housing, would be those who have lost their real estate because of the life situation. And to enable them, too, to come up with new, first real estate, the only real estate that will serve as housing. What else happened in people who bought apartments through encouraging housing? I have one example of the Split Bank, the Split Bank was cheating on people. How did she cheat on them? She would have agreed on a margin, for example. 2, 3 at a variable interest rate and would determine that, every half of the year, the applicable interest rate is changed in a way that determines that the interest rate is 2 or 3 plus the value of the six monthly euro. And what was going on? Euribor was falling and since it was falling, the Split Bank was not fit to reduce the interest rate, so it is being made foolish. And the people who are, financially illiterate, didn't get to say so, that the bank was cheating on them. They began to realize that only then, when we at the Franak Association personally, when we started talking about how there was a possibility, that, apart from the bank having agreed on an unfair interest rate, there was the possibility that the bank would cheat on them in a way that it had agreed on the correct interest rate, but then that interest rate that was correctly agreed does not apply. And people started calling us. And we discovered a whole series of cases, where Splitska Banska cheated on people in a way that she didn't apply the interest rate she agreed on. And then when a man went to the bank, then the bank offered him, five years ago, that he would solve the problem, in a way, that he would regulate the interest rate in a fair way, and that he would get his overpaid interest back. Because they broke the contract. However, no one knows how many cases there are. There was a problem, so someone got an apartment based on encouraging housing, and then the bank knocked him out for interest. Well, then, in the end, the man did not have a stimulating apartment building, but had an unfair apartment building, an unfair interest rate in the encouraging apartment building. So we have to make sure that these things don't happen in the future. I suggest that people who have lost their real estate because they have come into a difficult life situation, that they too get the advantage, if they want to buy the property again, if they're creditworthy, if they've solved their life problems and if they can still pay their loans better. In this regard, I note, this would not apply to those who have already been in the incentive housing system. I think that would be fair, fair, and that would be by some rule of equality, amongst the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85644	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Allen Prevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85645	Thank you, Your Honor. I agree with you that these people, who have lost their houses and apartments, should be helped to encourage housing. But I'm going to point out that there are a lot of these in smaller environments, smaller cities, smaller municipalities, and these municipalities and cities, right? They don't have the possibility of not having any promotional housing. They have such modest budgets, that they simply can't solve problems, schools, kindergartens, buttocks, asphalts, what I would say is the basic thing. So that's where the state intervention should be. Here, the minister is here, listening to us, now he's out to see how to help those smaller environments. We can say better, only a few big cities have entered the encouraging housing so far, and that's something that's too small. How do we solve the problem of smaller environments, how do they finance encouraging housing and that people can then engage in the purchase of apartments in such areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85646	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85647	Thank you. Dear colleague Prelec, I agree with you, this country should certainly help in some way. I don't know what model that would be now. Someone should suggest some amendment on that, I didn't suggest it, my amendment regarding what I said. And it should certainly be considered in the future, to see how the state could help, in which way, even in these smaller environments, people who are really burdened with living situations to help them too, especially when we know that from these smaller environments people go out the most, to leave the Republic, in the end Croatia will only come down to large cities and the rest will remain a wasteland. That's not good at all. And I must point out that what I have suggested, this amendment is certainly me thinking acceptable and it should be noted that still housing loans as loans are actually the highest quality loans in banks and that they are the most profitable and that banks have the least problems with housing loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85648	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Mark Welligaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85649	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's this amendment and the addition of the Law on Incentive Housing is actually what stands here, and that's that changes, unfortunately don't bring anything too new, it's more about certain cosmetic changes with certain things that are good. What I'm going to say about this law, what I threatened here is that it's been there for about 17 years, we've had six changes. It's actually a little bit. If we look at how many times we've changed and some laws that are more systemically even more important, let's just say that I come from local self-government, the law on the financing of local self-government units that we've changed 17 times in less than 20 years. What we always see from the local environment first is that the state is always trying to sort of move certain things to local self-government units. Realising, of course, that laws are passed and are valid for the entire Republic of Croatia, but certain specificities should certainly be respected. First of all, we're all always so full of the concept of decentralisation, and unfortunately through this law we're leading again to some kind of red tape to say and centralization because if we have APN here, there's this one article of the law that says that if the units of local self-government are not able to secure all the necessary communal infrastructure, that they can determine it. We have not clearly established the criteria for doing so. The second thing, these new institutions that also need to be set up, also leads to a certain red tape of the whole system. What they also pointed out here are a few colleagues, and that's the problem of small cities. So this law may solve certain problems that have major cities and it is certainly to be welcomed. But Croatia is not just big cities because if the government's policy to develop evenly the Republic of Croatia, I think it should be the policy of each government, then we needed one greater involvement of the state and more assistance for small cities to ensure there one stronger use of this incentive housing instrument. So we should still have a separate approach and what was also mentioned, that difference between continental and marine Croatia, and you yourself stated in the law if in fact the law, how many local units use it along our coast and how much it uses it on the continent, is certainly too little for the continent, and the reason is we all know which, and this is the larger budget resources that our local units are available in the coastal Croatia. If we don't apply this one separate approach, then I'm afraid what's going on is going to happen to us, and that's the departure of people from our smaller cities, and that's especially true of Slavonia, but unfortunately, we're also losing the population in areas that are more economically developed. I come from Krapina-Zagorje County, which has the least evictions of the population in the Republic of Croatia, but this is still not enough because unfortunately our municipalities and cities have fewer people from year to year, and on the other hand, our economy is growing very much, we are losing the number of unemployed and our economy is simply a new workforce. In fact, in this direction, I have asked the Minister a question through the replica before, and I am glad that there are certain possibilities through this law that I believe should, of course, be a little larger to ensure and use the POS precisely for these deficiting professions because today our businessmen in different branches are looking for a workforce that unfortunately does not have enough. So we'll have to at least ensure that if we can't prevent sometimes the emigration of young people from Croatia, then at least, we don't really stop it, but if we can't prevent that departure from Slavonia or some other parts of Croatia, that at least those people stay in Croatia if in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia we have the need for labour then we should, of course, enable them to use these instruments while including the state but also with stronger integration of the economic sector, I'm pretty sure that this can be done, if we already had in the former country the case that a number of strong economic operators have been working just for workers. And what I would like to look back on, was also mentioned, and this is the possibility of this reconstruction of family houses, I know that there is also this program B in the Ministry itself, and the article of the 30th of this law that we are discussing here today, it also allows, but only a declaration, I think that there is a tremendously large potential because we know that the housing fund that was being built there in the '60s, the '70s, the '80s is very large, but today, of course, these houses are crying out for restoration, these are mostly large family houses, and I think that if we give a little stronger incentive there, we can also contribute to keeping young people living in our smaller environments, and not only through that B program, we allow credit borrowing in commercial banks. Here, I certainly welcome the law on this side, so that gives me one chance, I believe that it will really be for assisted areas, that these people who are disabled come to them, but let's not forget not even the neighborhoods that are developing, that are today crying for labour, because they are actually these locomotives that are pulling Croatia back, they are the ones who, of course, fill and state budget, and we must, when we bring these laws, when we make these changes, think about it anyway. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85650	Thank you very much. We've got a replica of Honorable Representative Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85651	Thank you, Chairman. You've touched three things that are extremely important with POS, I'll just point out, or I'll repeat these two things. You said the first lack of labour. This is the crucial problem, I have already said in one replica that there are entrepreneurs waiting for work force for six months and there is a need to be freed, there is a very important ministry and a government that will liberate, I would say all mechanisms that prevent the labour force from reaching the employer as soon as possible. And the other thing is encouraging housing in small units of local self-government. It's something simple, I'm thinking, that less units, I'd say up to 10,000, 20,000 residents can't make themselves. I will give one amendment in which I will propose to allow those units up to 20,000 inhabitants, if they have in their territory state land, to give them state land for encouraging housing to make these apartments cheaper and more acceptable and local self-government units, and clearly to people leaving such areas. These are some concrete things and concrete things the Government must do to help these smaller ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85652	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85653	Well, here's a colleague, of course, of course, the municipal chief you meet on a daily basis with these problems that I believe your citizens are also coming to you and you know the problem well. Of course, all of us who come from local environments, I think we all come from local environments, but who we have a responsibility to manage local units know how much trouble there is, especially you who are here in the Zagreb Ring where there is still one greater pressure for that living space and of course there is a developed economy. You know how important this is for development and how much one incentive is needed, because unfortunately the resources you have, especially municipalities that are not through this new Law on the financing of local self-government units, have received the funds they were supposed to receive, it is impossible to finance it all. Of course, this is what I talked about in my debate, and certainly certain instruments should be provided to help smaller environments, because without these smaller environments, there is not a whole lot of development in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85654	The next replica of the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see you've also found positive sides in this bill. Its intensity is the incentive that, in some ways, the deficiting professions or young people for whom some are calling out, especially as you said less environments, to stay and in some ways have more favourable conditions to attract them to stay in smaller environments. What you may not have figured out well enough or perhaps you haven't explained well enough, is that the state from its level will, in some way, be involved in renting or subsidising the rent of these apartments, which I think is very good. Equally so that part of the costs can be subsidized and that it will not just fall on the back of small or local units and I understand you completely, some do not have these opportunities and there you are quite right. But I say one more time, for example, the State Health Insurance Office or something, we could provide, and that is, the intensity of any of these changes to make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85656	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85657	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here I am, well noticed, and I also highlighted these certain positive things that stand in the law. The law already exists, i.e. This socially stimulating housing since 2001, and no one can say that it has not received certain results because it would not have 8000 apartments as far as it was built. And I know about this lease and about the subsidies that are in the law, but I expect there is a stronger step because we simply need it at this point, especially in those environments with assisted areas where we have one growth of the economy in those environments where there is a strong pressure for the housing fund, so we have to be a little more concrete even when we make these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85658	The next individual debate was attended by a respected representative, Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85659	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The eviction from Croatia has certainly prompted this government and all governments so far to try to find a solution for young people. Looking and watching, and seeing as a craftsman who we need some workers see that young people in Croatia are almost gone, I am talking about Slavonia personally. The truth so far I'm always saying what it was and what it might be, but so far all governments have gone deaf about something, and I'm not going to say there was no incentive, but very, very little. We all lived in some comfort, not planning a future. What happened to us? It happened that young people are leaving, you don't have workers anymore, we're going to have a bigger problem with workers than the problems with the apartments, we in Slavonia especially. It's easy to get to the apartment, but it's very hard to get to the workers. Of course, this law should be welcomed, this government has the impression that it has become more involved than ever before, some small shifts have been made. Real estate agencies see that they give subsidies up to 45 years old so they can get benefits, loans and anything else that needs to be welcomed. I would also suggest that we organize residential areas where we would be needed where we have state land where we could join other things, do and try to help young people in this way. What else can be helped? We have foster families, we even have young people somewhere where they are, try to allow those heirs who inherit an old house, try to let them have to compete and that they can get materials and certain benefits for rebuilding and renovating such objects. I hope this law encourages young people, but my suggestion of what else we can do. In my opinion, since we are in a crisis, a major crisis for young people, I suggest that materials that are built into VAT-free houses. This would lower the cost of houses, make it easier to get property, reduce credits, encourages might be the best truth, the state has to, and allow it. If we're doing as we've done so far, we're throwing money away, and not controlling this part of it, we're really controlling and punishing it. Unfortunately, so far everything that's happened I've been saying for the past 20 years no one's been punished, we're talking about agriculture, we're talking about a lot, a lot of things that we all know together, they know in the country. There's a mass of things on the DORH that haven't gotten rid of, it's allowed and released in our country so that it can do whatever it wants and nothing happens to it. If I hadn't talked about paying, taxes, obligations, and if we had stopped it, we could have fixed all the young people, if we had made them pay taxes, and I'm a craftsman, paying taxes to this country, in the end, that's allowed. And of course we came to this thing that we're on. For example, connections to such facilities should either delay payment or reduce payment. This is the only way we can leave young people behind, for young people to be encouraged, of course, we need to do a lot of other things in the country to come up with a lot of other solutions. To all of us, credits, as counterpart Alexic keeps mentioning, have raised unfortunately our citizens without following and not thinking about what might happen in the future, and it has happened. Well, here we have 300 and a few thousand people done, unfortunately we have 180 grand for phones and T-Com, so it's easy not to believe. But here's what this government is going to do is make that part go down and pay off. But a warning to all young people and everyone else to keep an eye on when it's signed, when the loans are up. Of course, I'll support this law and I think it's good, but here's my suggestion that if the government had the state of money to free young families to download VAT on construction material, it would be very helpful, and they would also cut down on loans that are definitely through VAT, so it would be my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85660	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Misic, you have good ideas and I believe that the state will also go in this direction all available financial opportunities that will be going will certainly help young families. But what I want to remind you of is that the government recently donated 200 thousand square meters of land worth almost 50 million kuna for the construction of POS apartments for members of the academic community, for defenders, so the state is already involved in a way that it can and I think it is a valuable contribution. So on the slopes of Mosor and the defenders and for members of the academic community, I think it's a valuable contribution. Maybe the steps aren't big enough to be visible right now, but I'm sure all the efforts that are being made will eventually come to what you said, but I think we need to be aware that it has to be both financially sustainable and that we need to make sure that it doesn't violate financial stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85662	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85663	Thank you, colleague. I'm glad you mentioned the defenders and I'm glad it seems to them, especially for them should be done really if we look at our defenders who have passed, and we know the suicide they've made, we know and we've read about the newspapers how many of them were in the subunity, how many they haven't made their pensions certain people who have defended, who can prove and then be said late. Then he needs to be congratulated when he's not before... now he needs to be allowed to do it anyway. And I thank you for all the incentives that go in this direction and, of course, our young people who we need to stop how but here I say this one way. And secondly, we will have a problem with employment, it will be Croatia's biggest problem to stop people and to raise wages. I think every worker should have a higher salary in the construction site than the one who sits in the offices. And that's the end of it. If we want to pay these people and value them, how are we going to do that, the government needs to find out, but I think it's time and the alarm's already on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85664	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85665	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Honorable Representative Misic. The tradition of our people is real estate, house, apartment, but our young people leave the Republic of Croatia in search of existence. Clearly, they don't get apartments where they go, they live in rented apartments. Whether they'll be coming back, so we're entering a system where the concept is mobile labour and often changing jobs and retraining. So, the problem of an active economy and easy finding a job. What do you think, should the Republic of Croatia also be the tenants as the owner of apartments that will rent apartments, whether they're private or state-owned? Is it according to you POS that will solve the accumulated problems or especially the eviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85666	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85667	Thanks, buddy. The POS probably can't solve all the problems. It's clear to all of us, and we need to know that. But we know that we are traditional people, we know that we built houses without permission and without urbanism, worked with our own hands, built our own house. No credit, no torture, no rest. However, we have entered the EU, and this is exactly what is being rejected from our heads. It happened that we had to have a company that would do it and everything and, of course, everyone stopped and took a step back. Because to find today a builder on a construction site that hasn't been reported, you know what's going on. I'd say, if he's building his own house and I'm letting him do it and I'm looking through the fingers of certain people, certain young people who want to fight in the Republic, but here we have to respect the state anyway. The Ministry won't solve everything, but it can handle it. We must have optimism and move on this side so that our people feel satisfaction both through the government and through us all together that we are in the Assembly to tell the truth and that we truly want to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85668	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic. Buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85669	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Muscle, as I recall, you said something in your first reading about this Law, if I'm not mistaken, but it doesn't matter. Three or four changes occurred compared to the first reading. There's a secretary of state, so he can fix it. It is the most important, which is that this proposal gives priority to those in the second reading, actually enables the purchase of apartments to the tenants. That's very important. Something about these local agencies and the amendments to the Legislative Committee, so that's what it's about... , but I liked it and I'm glad that you mentioned it, I think I talked about it in my first reading but I'm going to repeat again because of the possible amendments to the law that one part of Croatian citizens who lives, so let's say that, all the way along the border towards the BIH, almost 900 km, that they don't just have to worry about POS's apartments, but that in their places they can actually stay in these areas through material or similar benefits, benefi is doing it in places where they live, not dislocating them from these places in residential settlements where POS's apartments are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85670	Thank you. Answer from fellow Mišic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85671	Thanks, buddy. Yes, I agree with you and you said this well. People living by borders should have some benefits, of course, but what's the problem? We now have builders in Croatia, we don't have them. But since I border and know how the situation is in the BIH, it might be a good suggestion from the ministry that some Croatian construction firms that operate in, Croats from the BIH with easier approval can enter the Croatian state and build houses and anything else. It might be one of the same good incentives, certainly there were stories and allocations for the child's allowance, and I think that they are people who work through Croatia, so that they can have a child's allowance that they can also encourage construction there because the BiH is also the Croatian part where Croats live. Therefore, I fully agree with you that this should be done and we need to just spread optimism here to these young people and tell them that we are going to fight for them and that we are here to fight for young people and our people and try to get them back because they are not very welcome in Europe either, anywhere in the world are tenants, and here we can be in our homes and have, if we build an honest relationship with our citizens, and so we also make employers work as well fairly as possible, but I know that the cost issue is when we cut in the country, then we will have everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85672	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85673	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So, this Law should soon be of age, as colleagues have noted since 2001, some have called these dwellings of Cacic's dwellings, he has launched this whole initiative as I recall what is available from the media and this Law is true, passed in some different times and with some different frameworks although we can say that today, and from the opening presentation of the minister we heard, he has very great ambitions. So this law has given itself a task of much, and among other things it is one of the things that I responded to with a replica when the Honorable Minister said that this law will allow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to get to their apartments more easily. That's where I corrected it, I told some citizens in some areas. In fact, what is going through as a systemic error in all our laws, and there will be opportunities to talk about it here in the Assembly yet, even the mini tax reform that Minister Maric presented here, which has received good results, is now in practice when tax returns are seen as once again the most underdeveloped parts of the state have been cut off. I am afraid that even in this law he will not achieve that goal because this law cannot go in the direction of demographic revitalisation of the Republic of Croatia. He could go towards making it possible for young people to leave rural areas in cities. Because if we look at the few units of local self-government that used these measures, it's mostly cities. Very difficult, the municipalities used some of the measures but not directly related to stimulating housing with this model. These were regular donations of land on which to condition a contract in which real estate time must be built and less related to this law itself. So the repair of this law in this section that has proved to be problematic. It's not too bad to say hello. But in total, watching this law is not going to achieve that goal. We in Slavonia like to say the barn builds a house, not the other way around. It is common wisdom, and in that part we can agree with that wisdom. You have, believe me, Secretary of State, here you come to Slatin, you have, you can offer some family a free house, people will say I don't want to and can't live there. You know why? Just because they don't have anywhere to work. And of course it crosses the domains of this legal solution, but here we speak to you as representatives of the government. This should be seriously considered because a large number of residents, especially here in Slavonia but because I know the situation, maybe it's still so in the Republic made houses, you know making houses and making them still, building them out. A fellow Misic here may have said a little clumsyly to reduce VAT on construction material in these cases. Some things are difficult to implement, some things are in practice, I think that measure would actually be inconclusive from the point of view of tax laws. But what you as the Ministry of Civil Engineering need to take care of, and more importantly, of this legislative proposal now, you must enable everything to make it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to come to their real estate. So to reduce all the parafiscal burdens that are put on them when they are built, to reduce them. Of course, there should also be a chamber of architects and engineers in the building, you should see what are the things that are unnecessary when building a family home, if, who is, every citizen should go and pay for it. Starting with the building manager through a surveillance engineer. These may be things that are not necessary for smaller objects. So you as a resolute ministry have to do everything possible to make it easier for people to come to the real estate building itself. And regarding this law, we say in practice it will likely prove again that we won't have it in rural areas, we won't have that success. Someone here mentioned something about the establishment of public institutions. Of course, these municipalities and smaller cities don't even need to work, they can go through existing models, but if they have the means and money to go into the realisation of these projects, because the question is how interested is then. If we're talking about a doctor here or I don't know a teacher, you know, it's a very small need to get into something like that. I only say from the point of view that what is cited as an explanation of the law will not thus prevent demographic extinction of rural areas. Not with this law. The law there may improve a bit but first of all I think this law is my final conclusion and attitude, this law goes in favour of a stronger one, other words goes in favour of those inhabitants, richer areas and for the benefit of the inhabitants of cities which should not be condemned but should be clearly said so that residents in Slavonia have no delusions that this law will help them. In the case of Osijek, the secretary of state, I see you're nodding your head, for example Osijek has shown this. And what you also have to take care of, it must not happen that quite accidentally the land that is sold for that purpose that, by accident, the owner of that land makes its business a project. Well, then it just so happens that one of his companies is doing the work. Through public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, 50 billion kuna passes. And your ministry is responsible for that. Do everything that you... be transparent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The construction sector should be encouraged but not in such a way that individuals are again rich on this basis without achieving the initial goal that we want to achieve. Personally, I don't think there's any reason why this law doesn't even support itself, he's heading towards improving the situation, but after 18 years, I don't think he'll be able to achieve what it was originally intended for, except in these cases where real estate is much more valuable than what it is today in Slavonia and not just in Slavonia, in many, many regions. And to conclude this debate, as long as we run away from the problem of the regional reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, as long as we do not form the Republic of Croatia as a community of 5 regions so as to express myself among other things and Slavonia to be a region, as long as regional parliaments do not pass laws that are acceptable to their regions, we will have this case of passing laws that are inapplicable to many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85674	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas. She is the first respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you said this law would not affect demographic revitalization. I can't agree with you here. In fact, a young man and a young family are the first things they want, and that is their living space so that they can plan their family further, so that they can be left alone. And it is certain that in this direction this law will be one of the measures that will affect demographic revitalisation. Of course, it is not the only thing that can help comprehensively to solve this problem. But through a series of other laws and measures that the Government is taking, through the Slavonia project, of course, that when all these measures have been taken together, the results will certainly be visible. Because I agree with you, only this doesn't solve the problem of course that a young man, with an apartment, needs a job, but it is certain that this is one of the measures that will positively affect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85676	Thank you. Here's a response from the esteemed representative of the Sagar. All right. The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85677	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you mentioned a moment ago the VAT, in my presentation, I, yes, gave him an accent. The VAT could be avoided, it could be awarded, it could actually be forgiven if a cost of a house that is being renovated or a new house is being created. These materials that are invested in that house can be done if there is no VAT if, of course, the state has so much money, unfortunately I know that there is not enough. But no matter what, it's a big deal, and it would encourage our young people because I live down in Slavonia, I know the situation, I know it's not good, I know that this government is true, trying to solve it, and overnight, it's not going to solve anything, but nothing, and we have to go, here and we're going with some laws that are good to me, with what I would do, I say my proposal was VAT, and that would be connections to such houses. That would be a big incentive, and if, of course, there's enough money and resources to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85678	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85679	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar you say, I'm afraid this law will not solve these accumulated problems. Of course not, one law can't solve much, but you have to admit that the government has shown political will and that this is actually one stone in one mosaic in which we should also have measures and activities related to one demographic policy, and I will remind you in 2006 we had a national programme, a national population policy where programmes and measures and activities were adopted in all ministries, institutions in the Republic, of course some of them were not implemented. You said well that in Slavonia you said that the barn builds a house and that's true, but what we certainly need is a change of social climate. So now that the problems of going out of the youth are piled up, when the lack of workers, when we have a bad demographic picture, the time has matured so that we can all contribute as much as possible to the better demographic image in the Republic. Even with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85680	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85681	Thank you, Vice President. I wanted to talk to my colleague, but I can take the opportunity now, but the vice president of the Parliament didn't see me answer. So I agree with these predecessors to everyone who's replicated, this is one part of the whole process. What I'm kind of warning, not just me, but many colleagues, I'm now speaking from my perspective in the Parliament, and I don't see hearing in the ministries. This law, apart from having the task of allowing young people to reach real estate, encourages the construction sector, but we need to introduce order in this sector. Now it's turned out a little bit because of the lack of people, the price of work is rising, and you know what the main problem of this country is? It's the one that does less receiving than the one that doesn't work. It's devastating and that's why I think that even young people leave, they don't see the perspective because they see that it's worth not working in relation to those who work, and they work for minimum wages, or they end up in many cases not even being paid because the company goes bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85682	The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85683	Thank you, Vice President. You used this fairy tale of the barn to build a house, yes. Unfortunately, it used to be worth it, today it can be worth it, but under certainly different circumstances and different conditions. But why did I answer the line? In fact, through the Ministry of Construction and through some other ministries there are some other types of subsidies, not just for POS. There are subsidized housing loans so that even in rural areas where local self-government is possible or may not be worth building POS with regard to the number of units, the cost of housing, the cost of building, so a housing issue can be solved. And that part of course we're not to that extent, I'm not going to say optimist, but that's the only measure in terms of demographic restoration or the departure of young people, of course not. But it is certainly one example and model that can help as few people move out of Croatia as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85684	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85685	Thank you. Dear fellow Batinić, therefore you are right, there are still a number of measures being implemented. What is missing for Croatia too, you are a long time mayor and you are probably a successful mayor when people choose you again and we will probably just agree, now you have no right to answer me, perhaps another time, Croatia needs decentralisation, but in the right sense of the word, fiscal decentralisation so that you can see how much money some units of local self-government have. It is true that many would not survive in that case, but then a model must be sought in which it could survive. So that citizens, through their representatives, can look for what is most optimal for them. My view is even that Croatia is set up properly, then the ministry should not implement this law, this would be done by all units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85686	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85687	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you said what was important in the debate, which is that the law satisfies the intensities for which it was written. The intensity of this law is not to be some secret cosmic ingredient that will lead to demographic renewal, to the release of vital forces, but to solve a problem that is defined and that exists in Croatian society. If this law is ready to respond to the challenges seen in Croatian society, it is good requirements of good law. If not, then we can freely engage in these discussions whether it will lead to demographic revitalisation, but if we enter into this debate, then we realize that the crisis in Croatia is more important than demographicism, which is a democratic crisis because we are discussing things that we are not invited to and are neither the subject nor the subject nor the problem of public interest when it comes to this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85688	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85689	Comrade Žagar, you have touched a few things in the debate about this law, but this law, originally when it was passed, was intended to help young people, then we need to withdraw from another how many young people have the opportunity to hire, which is their height of pay and how credit they are. And that's where we end the story. However, what is not good when the debate begins to bid tax exemptions. It's the worst thing that can be. This law proposes measures to make it easier for young people to reach an apartment or to rebuild a family home and some others have to charge taxes and put those taxes nicely on the budget's revenue side and we need to see how much we will allocate for these measures because of the transparency of public finances on the spending side of the budget. We are discussing measures here, and these measures are as much as our fiscal options, and I think that any tax exemption is simply proposed by a mess rather than by order and help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85690	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Zhagar, here's the obvious part about demographicism that caused the largest number of replicas because you mentioned that it wouldn't help solve the demographic problem. I'm sure he won't solve it, but do you really think he won't contribute? Because this is one of the measures for keeping young people in Croatia in the area, as has already been said, one of the measures and I believe that it is in context whether it will not be fully resolved but will help resolve it safely, in every area, whether it is Osijek or whether it is another unit of local self-government in another part of the Republic of Croatia. Because this is a good measure and that it needs to be upgraded and adapted, and I need to believe that in that context you have discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85692	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative Steve Coley.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85693	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm very sorry that I don't see the Minister here, that he had to come out and not see the Minister of Construction, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash. We'll support this law, we'll squeeze green, we won't squeeze red. Whether or not we will succeed in our intention, whether we will be able to bring it to the goal, to a positive goal without what is happening to us, we must first see, this is the consequential state that we now call enjoying. What's the consequence? The consequence is that young people have gone away, the consequence is that when you spend the night on Slavonia at night at 9, 10 p.m. from Cvelferia to Vukovar, let's say at 9 p.m., when the first darkness falls now, that the light burns on every fourth, fifth house, that only public lighting works if there is one. When you enter Vukovar, when you look at the building, next to the Wolf to see that half of the apartment building has no light. When you see the streets open, there's no youth. Why aren't they here? And I remember those bad times after the Homeland War, the bad ones, the Tudjmans saying the times, when all the truckloads, the jeeps full of workers who were chasing from baustel to baustel, which they could say at the time of the flood in Gunja, were chasing in Gunja, they were going to rebuild. I remember a bus full of defenders who self-initiatedly left after the flood and cleaned up Gunja, Raja village and other villages from the floods, from dead animals and the axis of all the dirt that was later possible and charged to someone. I remember a lot of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, builders from my place and there were 6 independents, and now there are 2 more active workers who had to make progress but who, with a move and less jobs and ending up in Gunja, who started and fired workers and had to pay them for the reasons why they had to do so, had to performers of work and they were subcontractors because every competition had its own performer who was the main contractor of the job, so he chose himself and subcontractors and he took his own paw, his own floor or whatever they call it, his pin, so those workers had to go out and look for work, somewhere out there in some better countries that had better possessions. I'm not going to say that there's no evidence, so I'm going to read you a little bit about the housing of POS's apartments in Osijek. The example of this is Mr. Radimir Cacic, who spoke publicly on television and many to remind themselves of it, I will read it. Construction of 38 POS apartments in Osijek, in November 2013 as a construction minister, Mrak-Taritash has just issued a positive opinion on the purchase of land on which apartments will be built and at multiple prices higher than real ones. So it turns out that APN has been ordered to buy land in the Osijek stupa from 340 euros per square even though the highest price available today is 7 times lower in New York City and is 40 euros. Lands in downtown Osijek were bought at 540 euros per square, although the most expensive land there today is sold by 3 times the amount. Each ransom is subject to public procurement, cannot be given to APN's decision to buy directly from the owner or the intermediary without being checked on the market. Something like that, in my deep conviction, is absolutely subject to every investigation. This is contrary to the basic idea of POS and the abuse of the project, land should be awarded and sold favourably by the local self-government unit in POS, not by private owners. The project, which had a completely different idea, is turning this into a possibility to generate extra profits in a very unusual way, and it's very possible that it's a crime. It was certainly necessary to compare prices on the market, tender and public procurement, are one of the ways to work often and it is easy to compare what are real prices. As a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, I asked myself a question, is it possible that we in Croatia have no one punishable for corruption? No, it was an investigation of its time against Tihomir Rončević, who was tied to trucks and did not bear fruit. There is no money, there are no defendants, there are many of these cases that the DORH should hear, possibly explore and process, but we will not experience in Croatia because many do not do their job. And we here, MPs, I'm new, young, there's a lot of us here, we've been looking at you, who's been sitting here for decades and 20 years, and we're wondering if any of you, like this, have found something like this in your time, read and carried out here in the Croatian Parliament. Is there, when I know that the price of housing squares in Gunja was 1700-1800 euros. Imagine a dead end in Gunja, which leads to the forest, the last house to the forest 1700 euros square of reconstruction. Or 60,000 kn septic pits twice two. And to make it an even more interesting brush for a toilet, a piece of plastic from China 281 kn, and the price is 4-8 kn. And that doesn't interest anyone. We can pass 100 laws, who will enforce those laws, who will control them, who will sanction such nebuloses. That's why Croatian youth went and we went to the Croatian youth that went around the world, you know what we can offer in our apartment? So when they do, when they retire, because they will not return to their places, villages and cities from where they went, but we will make them first or second row at sea, if there are still places, then let them slowly buy out, let them pay to have when they retire, where to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85694	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85695	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the proposer. I have to say that these amendments and additions to social housing laws are a lot of positive. So today I find this debate a little strange, because when I listen to it, so when I listened to it in my first reading, it was not clear to me why it was always the same arguments, the same criticisms, the comments, the advices, so I went one more time to read this proposal, and then I read all of this today what we said, that it was brought out on the first reading a lot of criticism, and I see that actually, our government has responded that a lot of these remarks that are actually being said today and the last time there are actually solutions for them are within the law. Now, we can't say that all MPs confused pots, because there are many in the minority themselves, so I may not be able to pass that finding, but we can point out one fact, that there is still a lot of need to communicate, inform and it would be ugly for me to give you criticism now, given that a lot of good proposals have been made. Now, you haven't gotten it right and informed, that's what's waiting for us in the future. And of course, there's been a lot of talk about incorrect use, objects, apartments or everything that's been given. They're not just meaning apartments through the POS program. And it is very important to highlight all these positive ones at the end, today's debates, the provisions, that this law prescribes documentation, which should be delivered by public institutions, in order to prove the purpose of the use of funds, i.e. real estate and everything else in the POS programme. And of course we've all emphasized, I'm like a young person, I know, when you live in a house, somehow more like a demographic restoration than when you have an apartment, especially if he's small. A lot of colleagues also stressed that this programme should encourage the construction of houses, upgrades, that is, in fact, already in this law, so I would like to stress to our citizens, who listen to us, that this law is what encourages it. And of course it's important for all of us to have this control system strong and all these implementing acts to be good, because although all of these are the result and goal of POS is the human POS program, but when someone abuses it, when it's not formally, but actually amongst the population of a certain municipality and the city when it's known that maybe an apartment has been sold, it's not actually sold in the right sense of the word, it's neither done in land books nor in court, but somehow people do it among themselves, but rather agree on a contract and a relationship that isn't formal. Of course we need controls for the same, but let us not fool ourselves, while we were as students me and my colleagues in Ljubljana, colleagues in Graz, are also offered rents in apartments that are for the protection of some persons who have been abused, who are in the same programme of social and should be intended for people who are damaged or who have a variety of life opportunities, and in fact are offered very openly to students from Croatia who have come to exchange in that country, so that they will certainly be those anomalies and they will always be. As regards Article 1, paragraph 4, we speak here and it is crucial and it is stressed that building land, housing equipment and other means can be allocated. And of course it will be necessary to inform, educate units of local self-government of them seventy used this program to discuss these programs, offer them and help them, and basically they have to put a little bit there to take advantage of it themselves and show one initiative. Because personally as MPs, I'm the first person here to criticise when they only decentralize obligations to local self-government units. But here we must conclude that the unit of local self-government with this law or amendments and additions to this Law on Social Encouragement has been given a lot of authority, so that they can define a lot of procedures and conditions for the implementation of this programme themselves. The article 1 also mentions military personnel, police officers and officers, and now the minister mentioned that these amendments are also directed towards persons who are deficient in professions. Now my colleagues, when I talk to them who are doctors, as the minister mentioned doctors, say they are not safe, perhaps you have already checked whether this provision is quite applicable in every need when we need doctors, whether they are all civil servants or tenants or perhaps should somehow approach, but you also mentioned that the unit of local self-government can buy apartments and give them in their own terms in the renting of persons of different occupations of deficiting professions and so on. It is good that Article 10 provides that public institutions implementing the programme are to be established, unlike the previous definition, which, by the end of the current year or by the end of the current year, are to be supplied to the programme to be used, that it will socially encourage housing or housing provided by the Minister in charge of construction. And we often notice when we use some kind of European means of this campaign that promotes it. I do not want to say that there is now a great deal of money to be invested in advertising, but really one information I want to stress that it is definitely necessary and, of course, those who have noticed that this law is good then propose various provisions concerning other laws and resolutions, do not want to say that it is not good now, it is good that... the topic and that we are discussing it, but really about a lot of these things we discussed in the first reading, there are reasons and this bill is not possible to install them. This is why I call upon everyone to read this law, to read this proposal, to read it first, and to read it here, and finally to fold up our sleeves and to start working, whether it is about mayors, Commissioners who are going to say directly, to implement this law, or to us, who really need to inform me that as soon as possible, these provisions of the law apply to the well-being of their municipalities and their population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85696	Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, few of us are here, but the theme of encouraging housing, or the Law on Encouraged housing, is certainly the focus, but I will immediately say that this law and this practice are completely unnecessary in Croatia. Not only is it unnecessary but it's harmful, and I'm going to show it to you now on a few examples or reasoned as I always do, and I don't want to spill myself here with populist statements. So here's the first example, over the past ten years, about 5.5 thousand apartments have been built in POS. Look, this law has been passed because of it, and it has been in force for years to help young people, that's what they're talking about. But what is it? Young people are mostly out of work, they're incompetent, on the other hand, if they're hired to work, 90% of them are working for a certain period of time, so they're creditworthy again. POS advocates say so listen they have subsidized interest, but gentlemen of you who say that these subsidized interest will be paid by all taxpayers. Why? Because interest is subsidized to banks from the state budget, so the only real benefit in this programme is bankers, banks that make good money on high interest rates, but also other great benefits are contractors who are most often customerelistically connected to the projectors and advocates of this model, which is mostly the party of the HNS that invented this programme, and we see that their vice-president of the government who is now keeping this government alive that he is running this programme and that he is most and most interested in the POS you see, construction, and today we have heard here a number of criticisms from foreign HDZs that in the local environments they buy land that are much more expensive than they are, that workers build up bad material often, etc. So you can see there's disunity about it. But good thing I didn't make my criticism we were criticism without a foundation listen well now. These 5.5 thousand apartments that have been made over the past ten years if their value is 7.5 thousand kuna not just the average price in Croatia, how much would it mean a thousand euros would they say, how much would it cost? Why am I asking you this? Because every year, Croatia pays $11 billion each year for its sovereign debt to banks. I repeat again, by refinancing at an interest rate of 2%, which has been possible since 2008, 5 billion kuna could be saved every year. For 5 billion kunas, 6660 apartments of 100 square meters can be built and worth 7.5 thousand kuna. Gentlemen, only in one year that the savings have been refinanced this way as the party changes Croatia, our experts advocate, in just one year to save 5 billion kunas, could be divided into people. I repeat, share, no fee of 6660 apartments. So multiply it by 10, there aren't as many young people in the Republic of Croatia as they could have free apartments shared. You see, this is where you have to stop and wonder what you're really up to? Someone would say, so listen, that's how the construction sector is employed. Well, it's all right, we know that. But you don't open the topic of why 5 billion kunas are paid more interest on government debt than is normal, than it should be. You don't touch that. So that's why I keep telling you and the party Change Croatia offers a radical change. This is the time for radical changes, but positive. This POS, as much as you starve it, changes it anyway, it won't help young people stay in the Republic of Croatia. He won't help young people stay in the Republic of Croatia. They are still moving out of our Croatia. Therefore, monetary reform is a question of all issues and judicial reform. But now I'm talking about monetary reform. If you don't... The monetary system headed by the CNB that protects the interests of the banking lobby, not the citizens of Croatia, and not especially young people, then we certainly will not be able to keep them in Croatia, and you see, the plan of fostered housing is aimed at keeping young people exactly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you started doing this 15 years ago, which is the coalitions of the SDP and then the HDZ coalition and everyone who talked about it, then you first have to say that you failed. You did sell apartments, but people moved even faster, especially young people. It's a total failure and it's filling the pockets of bankers and contractors who've been associated with you dominatingly that's how it was done. When we look at the housing market when we talk about it, unsold apartments, about 90% of the unsold apartments are in a portfolio of banks that do not want to lower their prices, so we see again where the key problems come from. So two years ago, I advocated that the issue of high interest, crediting citizens, young people, businesses, monetary reforms, should come as a topic for the plenary session of this House. No one ever wanted to appreciate that. This way no key problem will be solved in the Republic of Croatia, you people who have led Croatia either in the government or in the Parliament, you don't know it, you have no vision. You will drive out this few young people left in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I call on citizens, especially you young people to support these programmes that only offer, it's the only way to stay in the Republic of Croatia to deal with bad politicians, with the bad programs, with the parties that brought you into this position. That is why I call on you to support monetary reform, not to fill our pockets with bankers and political characters and parties that trade about it, but to really focus on those programmes and visions that are realistic, which offers you the possibility of staying in Croatia. We change Croatia so instead of these cosmetic requirements, and I have to say, without any ideas, without any important change, we offer you a positive radical proposal, we save, and we know, I told you about it several times here in the Parliament, we can save 5 billion kuna a year, and for 5 billion kuna we can build 6660 apartments and share them with young people and families without compensation, of course with a contract to stay in this country, and that will make it easier to find a job. Let's stop with these clienteletic models, this is a completely missed model and we just know who it's written for, why there is and we just go one new way, which is a path that just has to be real and it has to be in the interest and above all be, let's say, solving the problems of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85698	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović, if this law is as guilty as you said to HNS, then I am very proud. And I'm sure they're grateful to all those young families who are their own living space you've secured in exactly this way. In your discussion, you were talking about how it's not a good law, how it's wrong. But you've mixed up two laws. You've mixed up the Housebuilding Act and the Housing Credit Act. And in fact, through all these numbers that you've been carrying out, you've been standing up like there's a life theme, and you're in your room doing a schedule for those funds. Life is something else entirely. Once again, if it is the culprit of this HNS law, then I am further proud of my party, HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85700	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85701	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you when you said life is quite another matter, as to who. For those who have been threatened and who have literally been expelled from Croatia over the past few years, they have had to find this life abroad, and we see HNS and all those who have ruled over the past few years, it's good for everyone. And the problem is that you do not see what Croatia is like, and Croatia is in serious trouble. I know very well what the House Credit Act is, and what it is about encouraging housing and one and the other are not in the interest of young people. You say a lot of people bought, so they bought, they didn't have any exits, nobody offered them this model that I'm talking about, and that's why I'm offering this model that the young, I'm sure, will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85702	The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85703	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lovrinović, good to see you. The criticisms you're giving can totally agree, but these are criticisms for something before what's going on right now. I wonder what happened so far, we all know, we know that we are in trouble and we know that, I ask you, what have economic experts been doing these 20 years when banks paid the Croatian state, when there were 10% and more interest. I ask you, and you are one of those experts, were you so loud then, and you had a chance to enter this government together to try to solve problems. I think, however, that this government is trying to solve, and it's hard to solve what's happened so far, and of course this government isn't responsible for it, I'm sure and I wouldn't have given her the support to do the opposite. You could have tried to solve what you suggested with us. I know some things aren't right and what I told Shucker, the VAT yes, should be removed, not those who didn't pay the VAT not to talk, we could have solved the problem a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85704	Dear Representative Lovrinović, is nothing? Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, something will say to the esteemed Secretary of State, Željko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85705	Thank you. Dear MPs and deputies, Vice-President of the Parliament, I would like first of all to thank all the participants in today's debate. Both normally and logically, different views on the final proposal of the Law have been given in the debate on socially encouraging housing. In addition to praise, some criticisms have also been highlighted, but these objections mainly highlighted shortcomings that did not exist, which is unfortunately stemmed from the lack of recognition of legal provisions. For example, there is no obligation to establish public institutions anywhere in the regulation. A lot of comments today were on the subject, nowhere is it prescribed, no one is required to establish public institutions, it is on the will of the local self-government unit whether it wants it or not, whether they feel the need and make sense. Nowhere written and not prescribed units of local self-government to participate in construction costs, it is only an option, so nowhere is it prescribed as the necessity of participation, APN is always here to help local self-government units and it is only necessary to show good will and need, and the continuation of the realization will be carried out in cooperation with APN and those who do not have sufficient capacity. A lot of objections have been addressed and due to the problem of the credit inability of citizens in less developed environments, however, the law makes it possible to resolve the housing issue entirely through the rental institute, only necessary again for the local self-government unit to show that need. Finally, the adoption of this final bill will bring the legal framework in line with the Construction Act, bring the highest prices into line with the real state of construction, more clearly define the rights and obligations of public institutions that exist, or which will be established with the goodwill of the units of local self-government, regulates the right of the Championship to protected tenants who use apartment owned by natural persons, and ultimately new measures to launch a new housing programme that would allow multiple benefits for the Republic of Croatia, which is primarily a contribution to the retention and attraction of the deficited persons in the deficit interests. I thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85706	Thank you very much. One replica of the respected representative of Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85707	Dear Mr. Uhlir, your final debate was very brief because there is nothing to say. I repeat, it's a completely missed project that you're praising. Look, demographically, we're wasting our lives, we're emptying out, the borders of Croatia are about to come up with a new flood of migrants, the country is completely unprepared for such big things. How to keep, how to animated young doctors, professors, teachers in the local environment, in villages, smaller villages, smaller cities? You offer them instead of 8000 kuna you offer them an apartment in 7,000, in 6,000 kuna. I've been telling you how we can give them a free apartment, free of charge, with the contract to stay, but of course you see the interest, you represent certain stakeholders, you don't consider what an alternative is, this is great for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85708	Thank you. Thank you very much, so we will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85709	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 286. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Goran Aleksic, SDP Representatives' Club and Alen Prelec's representative. I would now ask the Secretary of State of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the esteemed Daniel Meštric, to be shown about the amendments submitted, please. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85710	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 1 shall not be accepted. A brief explanation, the amendment is not accepted because the whole law is written in a way that the local administration actively participates in the POS programme and only exceptionally when local administration or does not want to participate in the POS programme and thus cannot or does not wish to allow more favourable settlement of the housing issue, then the law provides for construction can provide for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85711	It's obvious, Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85712	Thank you, Your Honor. So here's my proposal: All units of local self-government, up to 30,000 residents, can apply to get state land for stimulating housing. We all have our mouths full of natal policies and then when we have something concrete to help local self-government units, then it's not going to work. So mostly POS do big cities, big cities that have financial opportunities less municipalities and cities don't have that. This law would make all the municipalities and cities of up to 30,000 inhabitants cheaper or less owned by the Republic of Croatia free of charge and clear that housing in these areas would be cheaper, it is a particular thing and I am really sorry that you did not agree to such a thing. Here I am talking to all my colleagues, the leaders of the local self-government unit, and that would be an important help to the POS. So the concrete thing is, I just don't know what reason, if it's something at the state level, we're talking about birth policy and then when the state needs to give up something, then we don't give up because of it, we're going to earn maybe a few million kunas more and they're going out every day because they just don't have a job or they don't have a settled housing issue, and we're going to let these local self-government units handle easier housing issues. I'm sorry you didn't accept it, and I'm asking for a vote, and I'm asking all the leaders to think carefully about how they're going to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85713	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to the second amendment of the same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85714	The amendment is not accepted because, according to cost calculations in the so far realised POS programme, the determined amount of 10% is sufficient for the other costs listed so that they do not need to be further increased in this part and open up the possibility of the collection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85715	Who will appear on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club? If there's no one here, then we'll vote. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85716	The amendment shall be accepted in the modified form by way of a certain maturity. A brief explanation, the amendment to the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee was agreed with the Assembly Office for the Preparation of Publications Acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85717	I'd like the president of the board, colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85718	Your Honor, Mr. President, with this explanation, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85719	Thank you. Then in this form, you accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85720	We accept, in their form, we give up on ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85721	Yes, yes, in changed form, the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment 4. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85722	The amendment is not accepted because, among other things, these are the basic rules of the POS in the assessment of the cost of building apartments in a given location in the POS programme, and without this provision, there is not sufficient clarification of the share of costs in the total selling price of the apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85723	It's obvious, Comrade Bauk. You're looking for a vote, okay. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment Number 5 to Agent Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85724	The amendment is not accepted. A brief explanation, the amendment is not accepted because it is also regulated by specific regulations and cannot be subject to this law. In addition, the whole law is written in a way that local self-government actively participates in the POS programme and only when local self-government cannot or does not want to participate in the POS and thus does not want to enable its citizens to deal more favourably with the housing issue, then the law provides that the building land can provide for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85725	It's obvious, Comrade Prelec. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment Six. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85726	The amendment is not accepted because it is the provisions of the Article. 13 of the applicable law has already been included and there is no need for additional regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85727	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85728	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85729	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to the last, 7 representatives of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85730	Amendments to Mr Goran Aleksic's representative are not accepted, with reasons that the proposed provision would lead to an unequal position of the person who first acquired the apartment. So this law is not possible to solve all possible individual cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85731	Here you go, pal Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85732	It is amazing that we have the fact that banks have negotiated illegal loans by the end of 2012, and many people because they paid too high interest rates, which are illegal, have come into the situation that they had to sell the apartment, have been completed, and in the meantime they may have come back to the green branches and may still be able to buy new real estate. And it is amazing that HDZ rejects everything, absolutely everything that is proposed on my part, which is in favour of people who are damaged by the illegal business of Croatian banks, which you are actually ruling. You're helping banks in illegal business. And now I'm trying to help people who lost their apartment, because they were paying too high an interest rate, which was the first apartment they lost, who didn't get that apartment for the first time at the encouraging apartment, who might now want to buy their first real estate, for the sake of living, for the sake of living, and you're rejecting one such proposal that's very real, and that's not going to jeopardize these other people because it might be some small number of people who have lost their apartment in that way, and now they've come back to buy an apartment again, and by encouraging housing, it would be much cheaper for them. I don't understand you, why don't you agree to things that are realistically possible. Yesterday, the Supreme Court ruled that there was no statute of limitations, and people need to be paid back their interest, and you don't want to back it up. You support dishonest, thieves' banks. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85733	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement. Please, let's vote. I find most of the votes 82 for, 42 abstentions to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85734	We would now move to the next point - Finals of the draft Law on conditions for providing customs representation services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 292 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85735	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the conditions for the provision of customs representation, and it has been adopted by the order of EU Regulation 952/2013 and in connection with the Customs Code and related to Article 18 of the same Code. This law fully regulates the implementation of the EU Customs Code in the part relating to the law of the Republic of Croatia that, as a Member State, it is in accordance with Union law, regulates the issue of the conditions under which persons established in the Republic of Croatia can provide customs representation services in the Republic of Croatia in the context of their registered activity. It also modernises and significantly simplifies the legal regime for the provision of customs representation services. The conditions for carrying out customs representation operations have currently been governed by law since 2001, and this law puts the law out of force. I'll just remind you briefly if you allow what this law changes in relation to the existing regime. Only one authorisation is provided for instead of the three approvals so far and that authorisation for the provision of customs representation services, these are authorisations for a customs consignor. One person may, as a customs agent, carry out customs representation actions for several customs consignors, which has not been permitted so far. In accordance with the rules governing the lease and purchase of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, business space owned by the Republic of Croatia at the location of the border crossings shall be granted to the customs consignor for lease through a public tender. The debate in the Croatian Parliament held on 16 March this year reached a conclusion adopting this bill and all comments, proposals, presented in the debate, refer to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. All proposals, remarks, opinions of the Croatian Parliament relating to the nomotechnical editing of the text and the reduction of the range of fines were accepted in this respect. The proposed law does not modify the internal structure of the Customs Administration or the Ministry of Finance as a whole and does not require an increase in the number of civil servants or the scope of their activities, and does not, accordingly, require an increase in the expenditure of the state budget under this... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85736	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and is the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to be respected representative Anton Kleman. After his exposure, we'll have a position on behalf of the clubs. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State, Director. Since this is the second reading of this law, and in the first reading, we did not exactly have some dubiosis and some major objections to the presentation of the law itself, I would like to say that this law is in some way the harmonisation of legislation with the property of the EU or the laws governing this matter in the EU, so it is indeed commendable that the entire system of customs representation of customs consignors and customs agents will be simplified. And once again we welcome the absolute adoption of this law and this second reading confirmed it. Since what we have proposed through only the first reading has been accepted as observations, that is, all a dozen of the observations that were made and the proposals that were in the public consultation of the interested public have shown that the law is good. I won't be much longer since this second reading is more or less what was proposed and accepted in the proposals. I would just like to commend the Ministry of Finance that it has accepted our initiative in the Parliament that it has eased the fines in the transitional and final provisions of 50% for minor penalties under this law, so for a legal person, the maximum fine that was scheduled for 80,000 kuna has been reduced to 40, so for a responsible person as well as for a 30 to 10 person, and for a natural person from 50 to 20, I think it is commendable and that we should stick to absolutely these standards and such views on penalties. Because it's not enough to slap someone in the pocket every time, but to see that we have a little educational approach, and I'd say every punishment that is and financial is rigorous, and maybe to go in the next situations and to warn and to some kind of warning. I will once again say that the HDZ Club will support this law in the second reading, and here is another commendation from the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration that they have accepted our proposal and that they have reduced penalties for businessmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85738	Thank you very much. We will now take a short break from 6 minutes to 13.00 hours and then there will be a stand on behalf of the clubs. MEETING IN 12.49 HOURS. Now we're going to continue with the point we started with. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, a colleague, Branimir Bunjac, signed up. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the SDP club, colleague Marko Vedligaj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Now, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected representative, Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So one technical law which, on the other hand, introduces a particular newspaper and has three characteristics that make it interesting, except, of course, for quite practical purposes where it is very interesting for people who are involved in customs representation. This first feature seems to me to be a very clear distinction of what we often do not care about, and when we talk about European directives and our membership in the EU, it is very often assessed as we just prescribe European directives. In this law, there is a very clear distinction between European regulation and autonomous national regulation, so the possibility of both and the other and the possibility of complementarity between the European Regulation on the one hand and national legislation, so what can be regulated autonomously in Croatia itself. Another interesting feature is the newspaper that this law at national level in this respect brings to the fore, and it seems to me in fact to be the main taste or to be of this law, is to allow customs representation of companies that have business origin in the Republic of Croatia. Now, the European Directive actually states that this is original, so perhaps some clarification, that this was not originally envisaged, and in this sense, this national legislation defines the possibility that companies that have a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia can also deal with customs representation. Whether this is simply left at the will of Member States to further regulate themselves or in some way empty space or to modify the European Directive, it might be interesting to hear from the representatives of the Government. And the third element that this Law adopts with it is to simplify the whole procedure. So in these things it's clear if the provisions are uniform, simplification is always positive. Therefore, simplification always means easier business and easier control of compliance with the rules, as well as easier adherence by those involved in customs representation. In this regard, we believe that this Law is a positive shift and the GLAS Club and HSU will support the adoption of this Act, but would please explain this relationship between the European Directive and the national regulation that introduces companies with business... in the Republic of Croatia as those which may be engaged in customs representation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85741	Thank you very much. Shall we finish? The closing word of the respected Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85742	... which you mention, my colleagues are now further explaining to me the customs administrations that... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] The so-called EU-level certificate, so if these conditions are met, can also be done at national level in the part of the business creation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not some newspaper that doesn't normally apply to me being passed on to colleagues in other Member States. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85743	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote on the point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85744	Final proposal of the Law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 292 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the conditions for the provision of customs representation services, please vote. I find that most of the votes 117 for, 2 abstentions, 2 votes against the passed Law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85745	Now I would suggest, if you agree to unite the next two points. These are: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products First reading, P.Z.E. No. 342 and - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 on indices used as reference values Second reading, P.Z.E. No. 287 Do you agree to unite the discussion of these two points because they are connected? The proposal is then proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply, and to this next P.Z.E. 287 for second reading of the Law. Of course, these amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on both proposals. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85746	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, before you, there is today a proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products to be discussed in the first session reading. The term is packaged, can be used for complex uses, but at this stage we have chosen that name and we will see in view of the conclusions of the Committee on Finance. EU Regulation 1286/2014 on key information documents for packaged investment products was adopted on 26 November 2014, and is applicable from 1 January of this year throughout the EU, and it is intended to ensure that citizens as small investors or financial services users when deciding to invest in complex investment products receive a summary and a simple dictionary written a document informing the product itself and the risk of that product. Unlike simple financial products such as shares, bonds or, for example, simple property insurance policies, etc. in the case of complex financial products not always... about which all risks a small investor exposes, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely the prescription of the obligation to produce and deliver a key information document that wants to clarify in more detail the characteristics of a complex investment product and the risks that fall on the burden of a small investor. Therefore, the main objective of the adoption of the Regulation and of this Act is to provide retail investors with the necessary information for investments where the amount returned to the retail investor is subject to fluctuations due to exposure to benchmarks or subject to the efficiency of one or more assets that the retail investor did not directly purchase. Furthermore, the aim is to establish a common standard for drawing up a key information document to ensure that it is... Little investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A selection of investments or so-called investments. Prip is any business whose future product is packaged in an investment product for small investors investment... the product or both, including among other investment products such as the share in investment funds, life insurance policies with an investment element, structured products and structured deposits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To the Republic of Croatia to the For example, stories can currently qualify as insurance where the insurance contractor carries the risk of investment or where the result depends on the result... the property to which this insured product is attached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another example, life insurance... In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in Article 107(3)(c) of the basic Regulation are not compatible with the internal market and that they are not compatible with the internal market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Basically, the main thing that is further regulated by this Act is that a certain competent authority is responsible for the exercise of supervision in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, in part of its work and its powers, which is, in this case, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Furthermore, mechanisms are prescribed to encourage the reporting of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation and third, a violation of the anti-registration and the level of fines for individual infringements of legal and natural persons is prescribed. This law carries out continuous compliance with EU legal bankruptcy, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to enable the direct application of the regulation in question to be implemented by law. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to move on right now and, thank you very much. As regards the second, this is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks. At the seventh session of the Croatian Parliament held on 16 February this year, a conclusion was reached which adopted the draft law on the implementation of the said index regulation which is used as benchmarks, and the law was of course adopted to facilitate its direct observations in the Croatian legal system. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The regulation itself is adopted to harmonise the regulatory framework for benchmarks at EU level, to ensure the legal functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions of its functioning and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection. In addition, as a directly applicable legal act, the Regulation guarantees uniform application of the provisions at Union level. The main objective of the regulation is to establish common EU standards to prevent the manipulation of benchmarks which could also affect the price of financial instruments or financial contracts such as loans or mortgages. As regards the benchmark as a definition, let me just read it are therefore the benchmarks publicly published values used to determine the price of financial instruments and contracts and to measure the performance of investment funds, inaccuracies and inaccuracies of indices used as benchmarks, i.e. doubting their accuracy and integrity, can distort trust in the market, cause losses to consumers and investors, and disrupt the real economy. Otherwise, this law introduces three benchmarks to us as benchmarks. The first is Crodux, the administrator is the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and the surveillance is carried out by HANFA. The second is ZIBOR, the administrator is the Croatian Banking Association, the supervision is carried out by the CNB and is the third national reference rate, the administrator is the CNB. The relevant elements of the law are, as we have mentioned, the supervision will be carried out by HANFA in that part of the provision and regulation and by the law governing the capital market in relation to administrators, while carriers and supervised entities in relation to benchmarks based on regulatory data and commodity benchmarks in the Republic of Croatia, while the CNB will monitor the implementation of the Regulation and this law in accordance with the regulations and laws governing the operation of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as well as consumer credit with regard to administrators, contributors and supervisory entities in relation to the reference interest rates. As in the previous case, infringements have been imposed for the conduct of a counter-registration, the amount of fines for individual offences. Compared to the first reading, appropriate improvements have been made which are suggested here in this House of Commons, and the law has been made in a way that closer defines the area of work of the National Bank. The law was drafted in the sense that a provision was added, which provides for the CNB to inform the public with all the sanctions and other measures imposed to violate the provisions of the regulation, was in the old version that it was only for the purposes of the HANFA. The completion of the criminal provisions in the sense that... for infringements in the event of non-compliance with the decision on the control measures of the CNB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. As in the previous case, this law carries out continuous harmonisation with the EU's legal bankruptcy, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to allow direct application of the law of 016/1011 in the Croatian legal system. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85747	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85748	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, co-workers. Well, there are few of us, but here are the regulations that the secretary of state has mentioned, these are two regulations that harmonize our legislation with the European legislation, that is, one regulation, this first one that you have listed on the documents with key information for packaged investment products actually came about as a consequence after the economic crisis. And what was needed in any case to protect small investors and in fact all those who do not have enough information about what can happen on the financial market. We have responded here, as you have noted, that this name may not be very good since it says packed investment products, so we may be able to find a better one that fits the spirit of our language more, but here is the possibility that in another reading you can suggest and suggest. What you yourself have mentioned, therefore, in this proposal the law also provides key information for such specific investment products where really small investors and investment insurance companies could actually have complete information about what is offered through investment products among other things. This primarily refers to life insurance policies, then investment in investment funds and so on, so far it is all what may not have been clearly highlighted enough, nor could it be obtained real information before the smog investment. Here a particular body is also responsible for the exercise of supervision and that is the HANFA which has so far had in its own detour of supervision operations precisely those institutions. Compared to the previous ones, we can see that the mechanisms here, perhaps in a little bit, have been used and conditioned that they be much more detailed. Violations have also been prescribed to clearly state how and with what levels of fines for certain violations of legal and physical persons. When we look at what was happening in the very period when it was conducted in public consultation, it is evident that several interested parties have delivered their observations, which you have partly respected, and this applies to both the Chamber and the banks, insurance houses, investment companies. Therefore, this strongly believes that all knowledge of what is happening on the investment market will be much more understandable for small investors and more accessible information through this key information document, which is now much more visible. In relation to the second proposal for a Regulation, the subject matter of the Law on the Implementation of the Index Regulation used as benchmarks, that is a regulation, this is a second reading, so we also saw in the first reading itself, there were no major comments. Since the harmonisation that is achieved here, in fact, what you yourself have mentioned, it is important to say what these are benchmarks and what they mean in relation to everything that is happening on the financial market. What happens in the conclusion of various financial contracts, how the success of investment funds is measured, etc. So, all that may not have been clearly defined so far, these efforts are indeed aimed at achieving transparency and defining exactly these benchmarks in the way that we can communicate better with everyone. And that this is indeed the overallity and accuracy of the index used does not raise any doubt that would distort market confidence, i.e., which, in the event of any inaccuracies, would cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupt the real economy. Indeed, in order to prevent any manipulation in this way, it actually enables this alignment to be and the indices themselves to be very clear and the benchmarks to do so can indeed give quality data. The competent authorities that supervise us by applying that Regulation are therefore, HANFA and HNB. Their division of competences, part-time work and powers, which infringements are defined here and here in that Regulation. In this way, in fact, a consistent vulnerability resolution system is in place, in case any inaccuracies occur. In fact, all EU countries have been applying this regulation since 1.1.2018, so it was important for this procedure to be launched as soon as possible. What we know so far, there are 3 benchmarks on the Croatian market to which the regulation applies, namely CROBEX, ZIBOR and the National Reference Rate. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 4th of this law, the Agency shall carry out, therefore, the HANFA shall monitor the implementation of the Regulation in the manner and in accordance with the provisions in which the capital market is regulated, while the CNB shall monitor and comply with the provisions of this Regulation, the operation of the credit institution, as well as consumer lending, and all of this shall be linked to the supervision of entities in relation to the reference interest rates. Therefore, here we can conclude that it is necessary to point out once again that, with the determination of supervisory authorities, their powers and infringements, contrary to the regulation, the level of consumer and investor protection is raised, and in this way the benchmarks are much more high-quality, since the purpose of the regulation and the law itself is to prevent right before the market manipulation of financial instruments is said. In this way, legal and natural persons have a much better insight into the movement of benchmarks and therefore also expectations on the financial market which is certainly necessary for a regulated financial market and a regulated capital market. Thank you very much and the HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85749	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Marko Vesligaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85750	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed state secretary with his associates. So we have two draft laws before us, so the Law on the Implementation of Regulation No. 186/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products and the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, I will briefly refer to this second draft law, so on the implementation of the index Regulation used as benchmarks. Therefore, the proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Index Regulation used as benchmarks allows for the direct application of the Regulation in such a way as to determine the authorities responsible for the implementation of the supervision of the application of the Regulation, namely the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the CNB, their division of competences, part-time work and powers. It is therefore a regulation which is the beginning of the application of 1 January 2018, which also provides for a breach of the anti-registration procedure and the level of fines for certain infringements of the legal and natural persons to which the Regulation applies. The aim of the regulation itself is to prevent potential market manipulations of benchmarks in terms of their inaccuracy and inconsistencies, in fact infringing trust in the market, causing losses for consumers and investors, of course, have an impact on the overall economy. The regulation was created on the basis of significant cases of manipulation of the reference interest rates, i.e. EURIBOR and Libor and benchmarks in the energy, oil and so on. and in fact, this has spurred one need, and in fact this has spurred one need for transparent procedures to establish benchmarks. In fact, we remember the investigation launched in 2008 by the American institutions, the last chapter of global investigations that so far resulted in more than 30 indictees and more than $9 billion being charged to banks and brokerage houses. So, by changing the EURIBOR rate, we are changing the interest rate, thus transferring the risk of change from the bank to the debtor, and we already have one sufficient motive for malversion and illustrations to work, it is worth noting that EURIBOR and Libor are reference rates for financial products whose total value exceeds $450 million. So, as far as Europe is concerned, the European Commission has punished 8 international financial companies with a record 1.7 billion euros for manipulating the European interbank interest rate, so EURIBOR and its Japanese equivalent, TIBOR. Therefore, such potential manipulations are particularly harmful in cross-border transactions due to a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. In particular, the definition of financial instruments and contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of the benchmarks used. Therefore, this Regulation introduces a common framework for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts and guarantees a genuine uniform and consistent observation in EU member states, of course and greater legal certainty and preventing obstacles to cross-border business. On the Croatian market as we have already heard, we have 3 reference values to which the regulation applies, so it is Crobex, the administrator is the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the data contributor will also be the Zagreb Stock Exchange and supervision will be performed by HANFA, we have the ZIBOR, so Zagreb Interbank offered wars, so the interest rate quoted to us on the interbank market, the administrator here is the Croatian Banking Association, the contributors are credit institutions, the supervision of the CNB. We have the NRS, so the national reference rate, here is also the administrator of the Croatian Banking Association and the supervision will be performed by the CNB. Therefore, the CNB calls on banks to define the parameters for determining interest rates to use this NRS, the average cost of financing the Croatian banking sector as one of the worst solutions since neither EURIBOR nor Libor actually maintains the actual cost of domestic financing. Therefore, using these two instruments, i.e. interbank rates, banks actually take on themselves and debtors taking inappropriate interest risks so that banks can be asked to make additional capital requirements or to capitalise banks that take such inappropriate risks. Therefore, according to CNB data, banks have generally selected EURIBOR or LIBOR as a reference rate with 34% of interest rates, housing loans and 44% of consumer credit rates, and this national reference rate has been used in determining interest rates for 28% of housing and 33% of consumer loans. Here is the question of the ZIBOR on the shallow cash market, which may be affected by excessive liquidity, as is the case today. Here this was briefly about the proposal for a Regulation law, on the implementation of the index regulation used as benchmarks, the SDP Club will support both of these laws concerning the implementation of these two regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85751	Thank you very much. We are going to an individual debate and only the respected representative, Ivan Shuker, has applied for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Before my debate, I would like to refer an appeal to both the promoters and us in the Assembly, this is an example where there is simply no need for such a law to go in two readings. Why? We have received in EU regulations the frameworks in which we must move, and if we do not meet these frameworks, they will give us, after half a year, an observation that we are not implementing the regulation as it has been adopted. So we can't basically change God knows what and there's no need to go into two readings, to spend paper and all that together, so that's something maybe we should think about in the future. And as far as these two laws are concerned, both articles have laid down the main objectives in several articles, and these goals are, in my opinion, the consequences of all the unbalanced, not the good, or even the bad, which proved to be when the world was shaken by the financial crisis. So these regulations are purely due to the experience that occurred before the economic crisis and the financial crisis and that led to even many traumas. Not only are we saying that the reference interest rate is the basic data for the calculation of the tight interest rate in Croatia. Just start with that. But how many cases do you have to count tight interest rates? So these are the goals that they want to achieve. This second regulation aims to ensure that those who submit financial reports that these reports are correct, that they are responsible for these reports and that they are practically transferring responsibility to someone else if those reports are not correct. But what is very important and what is virtually identical for both of us, except that in this Law on References, this applies to CNB and HANFA and not to these packaged products only to HANFA, so this law, this regulation and the law proposed by the Ministry of Finance deals mostly with me with the key problem. And that is to define the jurisdiction of independent regulatory agencies because, in this case, the CNB as regards banks is an independent regulatory agency. And as far as the non-banking sector is concerned, that's HANFA. And when you look at the little law, then you'll see that 80% of the law applies to that. Why? It's not a problem because this law doesn't regulate certain things, this law is just a link between a series of laws that are within the jurisdiction of the CNB and the HANFA and these areas that are regulated by these two laws. But this law defines how and how regulatory bodies must behave. So, first of all, it defines what is the jurisdiction of HANFA, which is the jurisdiction of the CNB. It then defines exactly the control procedure, so it defines relations, defines the legislative framework. In one article, it's exactly what they say, it's about some laws, but it's about a series of other laws regulating that area, and this legislative framework is very important that someone not later than in one case that happened and was trauma to the Croatian economy said I didn't have the authority to go to control it. Now, based on these things, there's no one to say that someone had no authority. That is why I say that these two regulations in the EU have long been cooked when you look at them and have come out as a product based on some of the experience consequences. This Regulation shall also provide for supervisory measures and, if those supervisory measures are not sufficient, additional measures shall be laid down. And not to say what's standard in every law, and those are criminal provisions. Both colleagues and colleagues are saddened by the fact that there are few of us here in the assembly today, and when we talk about these two regulations, because these two regulations could reflect on a lot of things that have happened in Croatia, in not so long ago, and that perhaps some things have been set up differently, perhaps some things would be regulated. But I'm saying, both bill proposals set clear goals, they defined the responsibility of individuals who produce certain documents and therefore inform the public of something, they defined that if something is wrong to create the possibility of transferring responsibility and what I think is far the most important, and we talked about it yesterday when we talked about it, it's one, it's a totally wrong concept of independent regulators in the Republic. And the independent regulators you've just been founded to do beyond the range of politics and anything they do their work under the law and that they've been passed here. And when they submit an annual financial report to this High House, then we, as Parliamentarians, can question them how they do it because it is an independent regulatory agency. But we in Croatia when we talk about independent regulatory agencies, when we make a budget we like to shoot about how many agencies there are, how much they cost, and we don't look at them in principle if they've done a good job of how much damage they've prevented or if they haven't done a good job how much damage they've done. And that's why maybe that's why these two laws are important because I say, over 70% or 80% of the provisions apply to the work of independent regulators, some things are defined. And with that I will conclude, so I am glad to define first of all the jurisdiction and responsibility of HANFA around the non-banking financial sector, I am glad that the CNB will no longer be able to speak as holy guides we have warned, we knew but because of that if some wrong reference sizes appear they must react, and not warn, and then all together when we add this up using other laws, so if some laws need to and change the damages, you can never eliminate them, but this is a good basis for us in the Croatian Parliament to follow the work of these independent regulators, we can initiate certain things that are more effective, that Croatia as a state gets this degree of legal certainty which is when you see what investors evaluate as something reference where they invest their money, legal certainty is at first or second place, and this is one of the segments that create not only the point of legal investor protection in the real. And here it is especially good that they are highlighted because small investors have neither teamed nor have knowledge or information that they can interpret certain reports, so it is very important that these reports are adapted to them. So I support these two bill proposals, perhaps first and foremost the Ministry of Finance and other legislators of these laws, which are the consequence of certain regulations where we cannot react more significantly, and for all of us in the Assembly that at the moment when the agenda is adopted, then for political reasons we do not shout why this is going by emergency procedure but simply being aware that this urgency is something that is real and ultimately something that encourages a more operational, better and more quality work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85753	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85754	Thank you very much. I'd agree with you if you didn't need two readings, you wouldn't need any. The regulations and directives will certainly be passed, we must respect them if we do not respect them we will receive warnings or some sanctions from European institutions which they cannot accept, but are therefore the blames of previous stimuli. You're saying that the HANFA as a regulatory agency and the CNB have caused some damage. that they didn't know, and you meant, of course, Agrokor and 10 billion kuna bonds without the cover they gave Agrokor. Of course they were and of course there was a law and of course it was becoming a commitment. We have the Stability Council of System Companies where both the Ministry of Finance and the Minister and the CNB and the HANFA, I personally filed a criminal report, now it's been a year because they gave someone 10 billion kunas without a bond. They knew this, they did not warn and today they manage both HNB and HANFA and they do not care and this is the key problem of this country that brought the entire Croatian economy into this situation by affecting individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85755	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85756	My colleague Bulj, you have misread some things, but for your sake, and also for the sake of the Croatian public, I have said here in this House of Highers several times that in 2012 someone changed the HANFA Act. HANFA used to have administration, and now there's a board of directors, the difference between the administration and the board of directors is a big deal, or to speak the common language, you've turned an independent regulatory agency into a bureaucratic body that depends on the ministry. That is why, in my debate, I have highlighted the importance of these two laws that speak of jurisdiction, of control procedures, of powers, of supervisory measures, of additional measures, precisely by stressing that this law simply does not give room and opportunity to tell someone I have warned or should, as the provisions of this law now state that these independent regulatory authorities must react at some point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85757	Thank you. That concludes the debate on these two points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met. We will now take a break until three o'clock and then we will begin with the point of the proposal for the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross. Thank you. It's 13,48 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85758	Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation, No. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products, first reading. P.Z. No. 342. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation is hereby adopted. 1286/2014 on documents with key information for packaged investment products, other all comments and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 115 for, 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85773	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.53 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 160 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with the conclusion of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament of 4 April 2018. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament's Presidency held at the meeting held on 4 April 2018 concluded that the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross for outstanding contributions to the promotion and achievement of humanitarian goals and tasks in the field of health protection and promotion of health, social care, health and humanitarian education and in favour of respect for international humanitarian rights and human rights. I'm opening a debate. Report on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most but no colleagues of Mira Bulja. The second is the application of my colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, which stipulates that the Croatian Red Cross in its work achieves humanitarian goals and tasks in the field of protection and improvement of health, social care, health and humanitarian education and advocates respect for international humanitarian law and protection of human rights. The law also stipulates that the Croatian Red Cross performs special obligations in situations of armed conflicts, large natural environmental, technological and other accidents and epidemics with the consequences of mass human suffering and that it enjoys special protection and care of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Red Cross in the area of the Republic of Croatia acts as a non-profit legal person in solving humanitarian issues, organising health and social programmes, preparing the population for action in mass accidents and disasters as well as in action, reducing and removing the consequences of mass accidents and disasters. With its 131 municipal, urban and county societies, the Croatian Red Cross covers the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and can contribute to the most remote areas where old, powerless and lonely live often. He played a particularly important role during the Croatian Red Cross during the Homeland War, organising the necessary humanitarian aid and, for example, in the recent era during the 2014 floods and the migrant crisis in 2015 and 2016, when the Croatian Red Cross was the main coordinator of activities in the field of international and non-governmental organisations. The Red Cross has also acted in international crisis situations by sending humanitarian aid as well as specially trained volunteers and employees. In addition, the Croatian Red Cross has been engaged in various activities of the international Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent Society as well as in the activities of the International Committee of the Red Cross, and has become a member of the main board of the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. And membership in this body involves not only participation in its management but also allowing the Croatian Red Cross to articulate the needs of the Republic of Croatia internationally. The Croatian Red Cross has received numerous recognitions and the occasion of 120 and the occasion of 130th anniversary. Priced a remarkable contribution to the work of the Croatian Red Cross so far, the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament concluded at the meeting held on April 4th that the occasion of the 140th anniversary was founded and the 65th anniversary of the voluntary giving of blood in the organization of the Red Cross Croatian Red Cross for an exceptional contribution to the promotion and achievement of and humanitarian objectives and tasks in the field of protection and promotion of health, social care, health and humanitarian education, and in an effort to respect international humanitarian rights and rights and the protection of human rights awarded by the Charter. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club supports this proposal from the Croatian Parliament Presidency to bring the Charter to recognition for a remarkable contribution to the promotion and achievement of humanitarian goals and tasks in the field of protection and promotion of health, social care, health and humanitarian education, and in an effort to respect international humanitarian law and the protection of human rights to the Croatian Red Cross Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85775	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross, and we will vote when the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85776	Proposal for the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross. He is the President of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous 117 votes for the decision on the award of the Charter to the Croatian Red Cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85777	The next item of the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 281 The applicant shall be a representative of Siniš Varga on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Proposer right now, he'll later... And now what do I say, nothing. [[The intruders can't be heard.]] I couldn't read more slowly to come, yes. I repeat, does the Proposer want to give an additional explanation? It's you. Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85778	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Health. I'm sorry to get into the air. In front of us is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which is coupled with the Law on Food Activity that we already had in the debate. And it is that my proposal as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, the body that deals with the legislative activity, is proposed by this law, under which it is denied the possibility of serving energy drinks under 18 years of age in catering facilities. This puts energy drinks in the same regime as tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and in the explanation I will only give a brief introduction that today's body of scientific evidence of the harmfulness of energy drinks to the young organism has already proven enough the harmfulness of the content of the energy drinks themselves and the influence it has on the young organism. First, when we mention the content itself, it is not just about drinks that contain high sugar levels, as many say, or that it contains the same amount of caffeine, i.e. stimulant like caffeine, similar to coffee or tea, but also has very high concentrations of taurine, vitamins and some other contents such as guaana, gincing and many other amino acids, which are natural, which are synthetic. All of this together serves to stimulate the organism and influence itself, and these ingredients as those contained in these drinks have already proved to have a bad influence on every organism, but especially on young people. When we talk about what symptoms young people experience in urgent aids after the consumption of energy drinks, there are palpations of the heart, i.e. tachycardia, tremor, tremor, excitement and restlessness, gastrointestinal disturbances, chest pain and heart schemes, dizziness and syncope, paraesthesia, chills and loss of sensation, insomnia, difficulty breathing, headaches and others. What you can also see as one trend among young people on the Internet is so-called. A bange of drinking energy drinks where they put in sequence 7, 8, 9, 10 cans of energy drinks and then compete who can short-term so-called. Let's get those drinks out of here. Of course, then all the concentrations and sugars and caffeines and taurines and guaanas and everything else that is listed, of course, are then multiplied in quantities that in a young organism whose body weight does not exceed 50 kilograms, then it has consequences and are already recorded in such practices and deaths. Therefore, when we look at Croatia's experience, in the reasons given by the Government in its negative opinion on this law, it was not enough to investigate the practice, i.e. drinking and consumption of energy drinks themselves by young people, but the ESPAD research conducted regularly by the Croatian Institute for Public Health has also covered energy drinks during research into smoking, alcohol and drugs habits in 16 years of age. Well, it's because the ESPAD in its research into the group of smoking, alcohol, drugs included energy drinks already speaks for itself enough, but when we look at the results of 16-year-olds who consumed 86.4%, that means almost the entire population, of the last 12 months 67%, and in the last 30 days 43%. So about 50% of the younger, or 50% of the 16-year-olds in the Republic of Croatia, who are covered by this survey, consume energy drinks once a month. However, when asked further how many have been consumed with alcohol, 47% have tried, 37% in the last 12 months and 23% means about a quarter of the 16-year-old population still combines energy drinks with alcohol, which is pointed out in the can itself not to be strictly recommended. When we talk about the very politics of these companies producers, importers in the Republic of Croatia, then we see their advertising practices. The advertising practice was de facto copied by the cookbook 30 years ago in the way tobacco was once advertised in public media. The moment it began to take hold that it was seen that the adult population began to reduce alcohol consumption because it began to see how much health damage there was, then suddenly tobacco commercials turned to cartoon commercials. And we see that now the same thing is happening with energy drinks all over the world, and so the Republic of Croatia, that they are advertised in public media in the form of cartoons, and that is clear proof that this is directly intended for a younger population. When we look at the practice in the world regarding the ban on energy drinks, then we see that Denmark, Turkey, Norway, Uruguay, Iceland and before and France have completely banned the use of energy drinks while France has reduced the restrictions. In Sweden, energy drinks are to be sold exclusively in pharmacies and must not be sold for less than 15 years. In Australia and New Zealand, they are differently qualified and sold only in specialized shops because they are sold as a food supplement, as other stimulants and vitamins are sold in special shops, and in Hungary in 2012 they put an extremely high cost on energy drinks to make them inaccessible to the younger population. What is not mentioned in this scientific article, which is a review article from 2014 which has over 50 scientific references that speak about side effects, about the habits of using energy drinks and the side effects of using energy drinks, then it should also be mentioned that both Lithuania and Latvia, both countries have banned energy drinks for under 18 years in their countries and in both countries with large, almost plebiscitarianity in parliaments. So this was not about any politicization but about the care of the health of the young population. What should also be mentioned here specifically is that the producers of energy drinks in the Republic of Croatia do not have. Therefore, this would not be about any drop in industrial production or any such ban. Only serving under 18 years in bars and other catering facilities is a questionable practice in general. Here, I grew up in Canada where under 18 people are even banned from getting into anywhere where alcohol is poured, and then energy drinks. Therefore, there are a wide range of countries in the world that have introduced the practice of depriveing energy drinks to a population less than 18 years old. Unfortunately, in most of these countries, this practice was introduced after one or more deaths and I appeal to the Assembly and colleagues and colleagues in the Assembly to adopt this Law for the simple reason that it is preventive, not to react only when we will have the first death in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85779	Thank you, colleagues, Vargi. ... No, no, everything's fine. [[You can't hear it.]] Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Marija Jelkovac, Darinko Kosor, Ines Strenja-Linić. If not, we can give a word to the government's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85780	Mr. President, respected parliamentary MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. So it's about the Law of Trade, a little bit of a colleague Vargi mixed it up with the Household Activity Act, which we used to have at the plenary session. So the government of the Republic of Croatia generally supports any legitimate initiative aimed at protecting consumer health, especially those aimed at protecting children and youth. However, before solving the problem with a new legal solution, it is necessary to clearly define the problem in order for the new legislative proposal to be seen and resolved as a whole. It is not clear from the above assessment whether the proposer of the proposed Law that the problem of energy drinks is caffeine or sugar content in these products and also not from the above described current situation is not clear which problem the energy drinks are intended to address or what the ingredients of such drinks are a health problem. The basic principles of food regulations refer to free and uninterrupted food trade until they pose a health risk. In addition, the term energy drink is not defined either in Croatian or European regulations but is a common descriptive and non-binding name for non-alcoholic beverages with caffeine and taorine which can legally be placed on the market, and there is also legal uncertainty in terms of sales of exactly which products it prohibits under this proposal. According to the above, we believe that before the provision is adopted, it is prohibited to sell so-called ‘sales’. Energy drinks need to be more precisely defined from which aspects of energy drinks represent a problem for people under 18 years of age and to carry out further research. If the data obtained indicate the existence of a adverse health impact, it could serve as a basis for the adoption of complete measures to ensure the restriction of the availability of a product with clearly defined content of children and persons under 18 years of age. Following all of these, the Government of the Republic of Croatia disagrees with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade and proposes that the Croatian Parliament not support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85781	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Tomislav Dulibic. We have two replicas on his display, first colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85782	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you say the government is taking care of the protection of health mostly young people. The fact that energy drinks do harm to health and are being used uncontrollably and that we have consequences as did the legislator. Well, then, you give it a kind of complete solution to protect our young. You're not giving any solution. To this end, we accept this legislative initiative and stop at least one case from happening, and it is proven, that energy drinks are advertised, while alcohol is advertised in sports events. Therefore, you did not give anything and a colleague, Varga, as an agent, made a proposal. So to this end, your complete proposal, if you think about health, accept this proposal. It's a very simple formula. You can't say that you're here for health because of the energy potion to protect itself and you didn't offer anything, a colleague of Varga offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85783	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85784	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian, as we have already said at the last Proposal for a Law on Food Activity, we respect the rules of the profession. So the profession in this sense of this law, HZJZ has conducted further research into the harmfulness of the influence of so-called. energy drinks that will have preliminary results at the end of this month, after which we will take further steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85785	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85786	I'm thanking you. Here's colleague Dulibic, you're right, I apologize in the lap about the catering at the store, it's a de facto about the package of laws, unfortunately we failed to hold a debate in one session. So we already have similar experience with the law on amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, where it is said that by the end of 2017 we will have a solution from the Government or the Ministry of Health, today we have no proposal and the promise was made in March 2017. So it's already been 14 months. Of the promise, apparently that there's crazy joy, unfortunately, the whole solution we'll most likely be waiting for here as well. I'd be very happy to be wrong, but you're more and more proving that you're not dealing with health but only in health and so you called the ministry, so that's how we feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85787	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85788	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Varga, meaning as far as the drug abuse law is concerned, it's really a couple of times we've had these different legal proposals and we're working on this bill and we're agreeing with all the government's shares, especially with the Ministry of Agriculture, to finally resolve this issue and we expect it in the government's procedure by the end of August for the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85789	Thank you. Now we're going to continue the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. First is colleague Marija Jelkovac in front of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85790	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is already a proposal for us to come forward with the bill and the secretary of state has come forward and according to the Government's opinion on the proposal itself, so I will briefly recapitulate it in front of the HDZ Club. First of all, I want to say that I understand the intensity of the promoters because I think it really is today when our young people are exposed to everything and everything, and when we're really very concerned about how to protect them from everything that threatens them especially with regard to their health security, then it's certainly understandable and this intensity of the promoter, but I also have to say that we at the HDZ Club think that really, when we reach for legislative protection, first of all, we need to identify the exact factors, the meters, the indicators, so that we don't really act hast been hasty in order to do so on the basis of the really valid data then adequate measures and regulation. So I would like to stress that, as far as improving, promoting and protecting health is concerned, in fact, the Health Protection Act is applicable and as regards energy drinks at EU level, there is actually no regulation that would particularly regulate this area. It is important to stress that as regards the prohibitions laid down in Article 11 of the Law, which relate to the prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages and other beverages containing alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, the prohibition of advertising, the exposure and sale of goods to persons under 18 years of age, they actually have their material and legal basis in specific regulations, as in the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. What I would also like to say is that, in its proposal and explanation, the applicant did not support this proposal with scientific evidence or statistical data, and we believe that such an analysis with accurate indicators is really necessary in order to actually have an accurate picture of the real situation in the Republic of Croatia, or whether our young people are really exposed to such an impact, a harmful impact on those energy drinks, and to what extent this affects their health so that they can then act and protect them by law in this way. What I also want to say is that the term energy drink is not defined either by any nor by European regulation, and it is the usual descriptive term for non-alcoholic beverages with caffeine, taurine and glucuronalacton which can be added to the product in different proportions and other ingredients may be added. So what the secretary of state said is doing is currently an analysis and we welcome it and we really think that after one such analysis that will give us a complete picture of the situation in the Republic of Croatia of our young people's exposure to harmful influences from energy drinks, after that we will be able to truly, with certainty, reach for a legislative initiative and thus protect young people from it if necessary. I also want to say that our young people today are really threatened by different things and perhaps more than energy drinks, so we have a variety of different chemical ingredients that they consume and may have a much more harmful impact on their health. And I think that in the future, we will have to think about how the most important way to protect young people's health is, above all, education from the earliest age, kindergartens and through education, because I think that today it is quite a lot of trends to use, not to say opiates that affect the good mood of young people and I simply think that it is necessary and that it is primarily the most important prevention and that it is necessary for young people to start from the youngest days to get to know all the harmful consequences that such substances can have on their health. And of course we can also consider the harmful influence of energy drinks in this regard. Here is the HDZ Representatives' Club, for these reasons, will be against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85791	Thank you. Now, counterpart Miro Bulj is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85792	Thank you very much. Energy potions give energy in a moment and long-term damage. That's what my colleague Varga said. However, HDZ colleagues are called on for research and that from these surveys when, of course, if they happen to someone in that part, don't give God health care or harm or give God anything else, the consequences of being worse, it will be too late. So in... We must not allow a moment at one stage if the EU has not legislated itself, if it has not been decided and we still have not been able to wait for some kind of research, it is not about test rabbits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important thing we're talking about here is youth, so it's about young people who use it, and the highest pressure is marketing on young people on energy drinks, that's what my colleague Varga was talking about. So at this point we have a choice or accept this with certain amendments, of course, that probably a colleague will accept it and that at this point we protect these young people because nothing is worth the health of, mostly young people, but of course all the inhabitants. I believe that at this point in Croatia the pressure of these energy, probably also in the EU, is such a trend, we simply do not have the strength to protect what is in favour of citizens' health because the government's opinion of rejecting this, that the government refused and immediately put into the procedure some legal framework which will be as you speak in a broader form because it always... Then I'd say OK, I'd probably say OK, but at this point we don't have another alternative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we have to decide whether the health of our citizens, especially young people, is a priority or if we're going to wait for some kind of research and see what's going on. So what's going to happen at that stage, which, if that research is going to show that in large amounts of uncontrollable damage to energy potions, then what are we going to do when there's health damage, or even one man, and not how many large groups of people are at risk? Otherwise, on the issue of advertising not only energy drinks but also alcoholic beverages, we see that the biggest sports manifestations are basically sponsors, if you turn on TV are producers of alcohol because alcoholics advertise. So, a lot of this is unsettled, everything is going towards profit, less thought towards health and health preservation, and of course we will accept this proposal from us at the club MOST, the colleagues of Varga because it gives essentially some kind of solution to this stage while the government, when it is, I don't know, secretary, you didn't say the deadline when this proposal will happen, that we have a temporary solution to the benefit of protection and health. It's the same case when I suggested the same thing about bad food import, GMO food, they say it's a good law, a proposal, but at this point we can't accept it. Therefore, we must have the courage to make a decision to protect our health. So if we bring it in and it's proven to be the opposite of nothing, we won't make a mistake. And what if we don't bring it in and a colleague, Varga, is right now, and they are harming the health of young people, i.e. All citizens who drink but are mostly targeted in the youth population because in cartoons they advertise energy drinks. So, I don't see any reason why the esteemed secretary wouldn't accept this. There's a risk that we'll accept this, and then in research, it'll prove that it's energy... They're not harmful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But they are harmful, we know that they are harmful from numerous inscriptions, many people who ended up in the hospital and the damage to their health, and he wrote what health damage Varda may also be in his, as a proposer when he spoke. So at this point, we have no choice. In my opinion, this proposal should have been accepted, the government should have given some kind of amendment, because its proposal, it did not. By the end of the debate there are 30 minutes, so my few minutes, I hope you can use that time, too. We can use the break to give the amendment, because if it's important, it's the health of our citizens. And the intensity of this proposal is why the health of citizens, in this case, is from energy drinks. And the Bridge will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85793	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, colleague Sinisha Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85794	Here I thank everyone for the constructive debate, so only here would I finally mention once again, the amendments and additions to the Law on Trade Activity, i.e., the Law on Trade, have not been reversed for any economic or other reason, because de facto, the economic almost impact is almost gone. When we talk about people's health, here, I can only, since I have five minutes, or 30 minutes, I can talk as much as I want, but here, I'll cut it to five minutes. It's just that, yes, here, just to educate you a little bit, about the caffeine itself, whether it was coffee, whether it was tea-stein or whether it was this huge high dose, the caffeines that are in the energy drinks, the research has shown the way it works on the organism and why they keep us awake. Caffeine causes vasoconstriction, which means he squeezes the blood vessels and thus raises the pressure and more blood flow in that area, specifically here it's the brain, which we have more blood in the brain, more flow, it's our more alertness. However, one side effect of caffeine itself and these vasoconstrictions is the fatigue of the muscle envelope, blood vessels, which happens after a long-term knowledge that occurs and when caffeine breaks, when caffeine disappears from the body and the blood vessels drop, then the blood vessel is low much more than it was, before you take up coffee, tea or energy drink. For this reason, for this study, these 50 and some of the scientific works that are listed here, is the link between the use of energy drinks associated with traffic accidents. Here, we have recently, at night traffic, we have a legend of small football of Croatia and a young cadet who died, it would not be surprising that an empty can of energy drink was found in the car, where the driver was given a false sense of vigilance. Because the moment it falls, when the kidneys clear caffeine from the body, then there's vasodilation because the blood vessels get tired and there's more fatigue than there's ever been before. It's scientifically proven, it doesn't need much lementation about it. So, wait for the death to occur, someone died in the middle of an energy drink, we may already have an example a few days ago. But in the world, there are several cases of direct consumption of energy drink, where amino acids, which are added inside, cause platelet aggregation, cause blood clots and in young organisms cause strokes and heart attack and heart attack. More cases, scientifically proven, but not proven on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in the population of 100,000 or 200000 citizens who are younger than 18 years old in Croatia. We were lucky to have that monster around us for now. Other countries of the world didn't get around us, that's where the children died. And now the question is, are we really waiting for a bullet somewhere to stray and hit one of our kids, obviously we have to wait. Regarding the argument that the issue of tobacco and alcohol in the Republic of Croatia is prohibited both in catering and in a store for younger than 18 because they are regulated by separate law. Is that a fact, however, I do not know about the legal practice that conditionaling one law is truly conditional upon the adoption of another law. I'm not an expert lawyer, but as far as I know, the Constitution doesn't tell us in that direction, that the adoption of one law is conditional upon the adoption of another law. But if that is the practice and if necessary, I will make a proposal to pass such a law, and we will also discuss it in this assembly, until we finally pass such a law that will limit energy drinks for younger than 18 and before someone dies of the consequences of use. As far as the burden of evidence is concerned, I think I've already said something about it, and my colleague Bulj mentioned the same thing, the question is which of this moment, so today or next Thursday, when we will vote when we will vote on this law, who assumes responsibility, who is responsible, who said that energy drinks in Croatia are safe or said they are not proven to be insecure. It's a matter of responsibility. And then if there's a death, who does the grieving parents talk to? And I agree with my colleague, health care, yes, here's health care care to the pain, we're expecting a terrible long and only positive consequences of health care education we'll see, here I got my granddaughter a month ago maybe she'll have a health education so in 18 years she'll be a sensible new adult who'll know how to manage her own health. However, generations and generations of children today who use energy drinks, smoking tobacco takes hold in a young population where slowly girls take over primate over boys, statistics change. And drugs and alcohol, not to mention. We've got some really infamous statistics here. Measures should be taken to turn non-famous statistics into a positive trend, this is one of these measures. The young children's strength with the amount of sugar in energy drinks with the giving of wings and all other ads, it's something I think that young people in the Republic of Croatia didn't earn on the one hand, on the other hand on the website of the middle.hr did research and I think over 1200 children in the survey, the vast majority said that they were to limit that they were not sold and served under 18, so only the population they were dealing with said themselves that they were for it. So here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to mention that I suggested this as a separate parliamentary representative just for the very reason there's no politicizing, there's no policy here. I don't even know personally what SDP's position is about this law. So here I speak as a health worker, I speak as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and I appeal to you, think again here you have time to think until Thursday. Take that step, here's what we mentioned in Istanbul, so step forward so this law can be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85795	Four, to have four replicas. The first one's a colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85796	Your Honor, Mr. Varga. It's not all that comes from the west well, so neither does this fast food and these high-calorie drinks. And I can tell you when I was in Iran recently there is no McDonald’s, McDonald’s is forbidden to poison children there, but we obviously welcome this toxic food, food that causes this morbid obesity. I think your proposal is to limit the sale of that kind of drink, so high-calorie it's positive, and I will personally support your law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85797	A reply to the replica of a colleague of Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85798	I thank my colleague Pernar. Here I mentioned it, I think it was in an earlier debate when we had a catering activity one of our colleagues mentioned that energy drinks were the same as Cedevita. No, it's not, it's about significantly higher carbohydrate levels, Cedevita doesn't contain caffeine, and here we have an extremely large amount of amino acids, and other stimulating agents that are scientifically proven to have a bad influence on the young organism. And Cedevita is absolutely not advertised the way these drinks are advertised. So it's incomparable. But the fact is, if you need something to drink, you need to drink water, natural juices, leave cigarettes and alcohol and fat and other food. There are means to drink without affecting health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85799	Thank you, colleagues. Next fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85800	Comrade Varga, I believe that if this is not a political issue, all MPs in Parliament will vote on their conscience. Here is a very important period of lawlessness, where there is no legal framework for energy drinks, where we have no restrictions, and the fact that harm can happen, unfortunately, and the fatal consequences per person. Health protection is above all else, it is a constitutional principle and we must respect the Constitution. We Parliamentarians are all trying to pass together the law that has been proposed if there is no amendment to the full law, which is called the Ministry of Health i.e. The government of the And at the very least it's embarrassing that the government rejects this law and that a representative of the Ministry of Health who is obliged to care about health that he rejects your proposal, and does not give any alternative to the harm of our children up to 18 years of limit. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85801	Thank you. The answer to my friend Varga's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85802	I thank my colleague Bull. Here's the first correction, it's not about the Ministry of Health because it's not about health, it's about the Ministry of Health, so it's just that it's only that the distinction is very clear because they've been stressing since the first day that it's a very important thing. Therefore, when we talk about this law, I appeal once again, especially to colleagues with me on the left or right of the assembly to think about this law and the Law on Hostage, unfortunately he did not pass in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading. We have a chance to get here in a commercial activity to limit it. At the very end of each law if it turns out and through research I doubt it will produce results in a month, but I believe we can have a full proposal ahead of us and with the amendments as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85803	Thank you, Comrade Varga. Next replica, colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85804	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. I don't question at all what you claim to be a doctor and a number of analyses that are that really energy drinks are used especially in larger quantities have and can have a harmful impact on health, but let's really determine in the Republic what is the number of young people under the age of 18 who use more energy drinks to see if it's really alarming, whether it really needs to be protected by law because look, I look at my city, young people mostly drink fish, and you know what a fisherman is. You know why? Because a liter is about the price of an energy drink. So I think that in the Republic of Croatia precisely because of the price of energy drinks is not so large in consumption, and I really don't think that because of that we don't have such a big problem about the consumption of young people. But here's what I really want to think about and see if it's necessary to protect it by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85805	Thank you. Here's a reply from your colleague, Varg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85806	Well, I agree with my colleague, and I believe that my colleagues from the Living Wall would also like to talk about this hypocrisy in general in society and about cigarettes and alcohol, and then recreational marijuana and then energy drinks. So, here's just research done at the international level all puts it in the same pile, energy drinks are in the same group with tobacco, alcohol, drugs, energy drinks, you realize that when international institutions, that means the World Health Organization is conducting the ESPAD research conducted by HZZ. We're talking about energy drinks in the same group. The research has already been done, and we already have those results for that 16-year-old cut. He says at the ministry that they are now working extensively. However, already existing data is alarming enough to take certain steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85807	Thank you, too. Replica colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Varg's two replicas. First, you said you didn't know what the SDP's position was on this bill, that you were proposing it as a representative from the Club but that it wasn't proposed on behalf of the party, the SDP's Club of Representatives, of course, supports this bill and all that it brings and that's better protection of our citizens from the harmfulness of energy drinks and all those mechanisms that need to contribute to the improvement of their health. Secondly, when you said this shouldn't be a political issue, so you see that it is a political issue because the government of the Republic of Croatia probably rejects your legal proposal just because you're the proposing coming from the SDP party. And unfortunately, this shows a very clear distinction as to why the Ministry of Health is no longer the Ministry of Health but the Ministry of Health. As soon as it's lost in that human dimension of health protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85809	Thank you. The answer to my friend Varga's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85810	I thank my colleague Sabini. It is, of course, that she saw clearly and saw that my provocation was related to the position of the SDP. In fact, I am trying to achieve what they have achieved in Latvia and Lithuania to have a consensus in the Council on the issue of health. It's something that in these Baltic countries that are from the post-Soviet alliance, they managed to do in their ranks on health. I believe that the issue of health is something that we in Croatia can reach consensus. I've been looking for him for years. I only offer it on my own to the health ministry and to my colleagues. Unfortunately, I, as a representative at the Croatian Parliament, have so far given 5x more legal proposals to this home than just the Ministry of Health. Therefore, please start working and start proposing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85811	Thank you. That's why we're closing the argument. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I also announce that tomorrow's session starts at 9.30 p.m. with a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 333. And I wish you good afternoon. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted in 15.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-07-0.u85812	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 281, Proposer is a representative of Sinisha Varga. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which is not accepted by the Government or by the parliamentary working bodies. Please, let's vote. I find that the law has not been passed because it has not received the required number of votes. We're going to another debate. Dear colleague Vlaho Orepic, please.
